
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549


                                   FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
                                       or

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                        Commission File Number: 1-13106

                           ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC.
                           --------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

   Maryland                                          77-0369576
   --------                                          ----------
(State or other jurisdiction of         (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

               925 East Meadow Drive, Palo Alto, California 94303
               --------------------------------------------------
             (Address of principal executive offices)    (Zip code)

                                 (650) 494-3700
                                 --------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered
- -------------------                    -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, $.0001 par value                        New York Stock Exchange
Rights to purchase Series A Junior                    New York Stock Exchange
     Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.0001

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                              [ X] Yes   [   ] No.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to the
Form 10-K.  [  ]

As of  March 21, 2001, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $636,434,438.  The aggregate market value
was computed with reference to the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange
on such date.  This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons
are affiliates for any other purpose.

As of March, 21, 2001, 18,701,013 shares of Common Stock ($.0001 par value) were
outstanding.

LOCATION OF EXHIBIT INDEX:  The index exhibit is contained in Part IV, Item 14,
on page number 29.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
The following document is incorporated by reference in Part III of the Annual
Report on Form 10K:  Proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders of
Essex Property Trust, Inc. to be held May 15, 2001.


                                                                  FORM 10-K




                                     PART I

Forward Looking Statements

Certain statements in this Report on Form 10-K which are not historical facts
may be considered forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding the Company's
expectations, hopes, intentions, beliefs and strategies regarding the future.
Forward looking statements include statements regarding the Company's
expectation as to the timing of completion of current development projects,
expectation as to the total projected costs and rental rates of current
development projects, beliefs as to the adequacy of future cash flows to meet
operating requirements and to provide for dividend payments in accordance with
REIT requirements and expectations as to the amount of non-revenue generating
capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2001, potential
acquisitions and developments, the anticipated performance of existing
properties projected stabilization dates for development properties , future
acquisitions and developments and statements regarding the Company's financing
activities.  Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors including, but not limited to, that the actual
completion of development projects will be subject to delays, that the total
projected costs of current development projects will exceed expectations, that
such development projects will not be completed, that future cash flows will be
inadequate to meet operating requirements and/or will be insufficient to provide
for dividend payments in accordance with REIT requirements, that the actual non-
revenue generating capital expenditures will exceed the Company's current
expectations, as well as those risks, special considerations, and other factors
discussed under the caption "Other Matters/Risk Factors" in Item 1 of  this
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, and those other risk
factors and special considerations set forth in the Company's other filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC")  which may cause the actual
results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different
from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by
such forward-looking statements.

Item 1. Business

Description of Business
- -----------------------

Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("the Company" or "Essex") is a self-administered and
self-managed equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") engaged in the
ownership, acquisition, development and management of multifamily apartment
communities.  The Company's multifamily portfolio consists of ownership
interests in 83 properties (comprising 18,673 apartment units), 9,446 units are
located in Southern California (Los Angeles, Ventura, Orange and San Diego
counties), 4,023 units of which are located in Northern California (the San
Francisco Bay Area) and 5,204 of which are located in the Pacific Northwest
(4,073 units in the Seattle metropolitan area and 1,131 units in the Portland,
Oregon metropolitan area).  The Company also has ownership interests in an
office building located in Northern California (Palo Alto) which houses the
Company's headquarters, and three retail shopping centers located in the Pacific
Northwest (the "Commercial Properties," and together with the Company's
multifamily residential properties, the "Properties").  The Company and
affiliated entities and joint ventures also have entered into commitments for
the development of 1,349 units in 5 multifamily communities; two in Northern
California and three in Southern California.

The Company was incorporated in the state of Maryland in March 1994.  On June
13, 1994, the Company commenced operations with the completion of an initial
public offering ("the Offering") in which it issued 6,275,000 shares of common
stock at $19.50 per share. The net proceeds of the Offering of $112.1 million
were used to acquire an approximate 77.2% general partnership interest in Essex
Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership").

The Company conducts substantially all of its activities through the Operating
Partnership.  The Company currently owns an approximate 89.6% general
partnership interest and senior members of the Company's Board of Directors,
management and certain outside investors own approximately 10.4% limited
partnership interests in the Operating Partnership.  As the sole general partner
of the Operating Partnership, the Company has control over the management of the
Operating Partnership and over each of the Properties.

Business Objectives
- -------------------

The Company's primary business objective is to maximize funds from operations
and total returns to stockholders through active property and portfolio
management including redevelopment of properties.  The Company's strategies
include:

     .    Active Property Marketing and Management. Maximize, on a per share
          basis, cash available for distribution and the capital appreciation of
          its property portfolio through active property marketing and
          management and, if applicable, redevelopment.

     .    Selected Expansion of Property Portfolio.  Increase, on a per share
          basis, cash available for distribution through the acquisition and
          development of multifamily residential properties in selected major
          metropolitan areas located in the west coast region of the United
          States.

     .    Optimal Portfolio Asset Allocations.  Produce predictable financial
          performance through a portfolio asset allocation program that seeks to
          increase or decrease the investments in each market based on changes
          in regional economic and local market conditions.

     .    Management of Capital and Financial Risk.  Optimize the Company's
          capital and financial risk positions by maintaining a conservative
          leverage ratio and minimizing the Company's cost of capital.   The
          Company evaluates



         financing alternatives including alternative financing sources through
         joint ventures, broadening the Company's access to capital.

Business Principles
- -------------------

The Company was founded on, has followed, and intends to continue to follow the
business principles set forth below:

Property Management.  Through its long-standing philosophy of active property
management and a customer satisfaction approach, coupled with a discipline of
internal cost control, the Company seeks to retain tenants, maximize cash flow,
enhance property values and compete effectively for new tenants in the
marketplace.  The Company's Senior Vice President of Operations and the regional
portfolio managers are accountable for overall property operations and
performance.  They supervise on-site managers, provide training for the on-site
staff, monitor fiscal performance against budgeted expectations, monitor
property performance against the performance of competing properties in the
area, prepare operating and capital budgets for executive approval, and
implement new strategies focused on enhancing tenant satisfaction, increasing
revenue, controlling expenses, and creating a more efficient operating
environment.

Business Planning and Control.  Real estate investment decisions are accompanied
by a multiple year plan, to which executives and other managers responsible for
obtaining future financial performance must agree.  Performance versus plan
serves as a significant factor in determining compensation.

Property Type Focus.  The Company focuses on acquisition and development of
multifamily residential communities, containing between 75 and 750 units.  These
types of properties offer attractive opportunities because such properties (i)
are often mispriced by real estate sellers and buyers who lack the Company's
ability to obtain and use real-time market information, (ii) provide
opportunities for value enhancement since many of these properties have been
owned by parties that are either inadequately capitalized or lack the
professional property management expertise of the Company.

Geographic Focus.  The Company focuses its property investments in markets that
meet the following criteria:

    .     Major Metropolitan Areas. The Company focuses on metropolitan areas
          having a regional population in excess of one million people. Real
          estate markets in these areas are typically characterized by a
          relatively greater number of buyers and sellers and are, therefore,
          more liquid. Liquidity is an important element for implementing the
          Company's strategy of varying its portfolio in response to changing
          market conditions.

    .     Supply Constraints. The Company believes that properties located in
          real estate markets with limited development or redevelopment
          opportunities are well suited to produce increased rental income. When
          evaluating supply constraints, The Company reviews: (i) availability
          of developable land sites on which competing properties could be
          readily constructed; (ii) political barriers to growth resulting from
          a restrictive local political environment regarding development and
          redevelopment (such an environment, in addition to the restrictions on
          development itself, is often associated with a lengthy development
          process and expensive development fees); and (iii) physical barriers
          to growth, resulting from natural limitations to development, such as
          mountains or waterways.

    .     Rental Demand Created by High Cost of Housing. The Company
          concentrates on markets in which the cost of renting compares
          favorably to the cost of owning a home. In such markets, rent levels
          tend to be higher and operating expenses and capital expenditures, as
          a percentage of rent, are lower in comparison with markets that have a
          lower cost of owning a home.

     .    Job Proximity. The company believes that most renters select housing
          based on its proximity to their jobs and on related commuting factors.
          The Company obtains local area information relating to its residential
          properties and uses this information when making multifamily
          residential property acquisition decisions. The Company also reviews
          the location of major employers relative to its portfolio and
          potential acquisition properties.

Following the above criteria, the Company is currently pursuing investment
opportunities in selected markets of Northern and Southern California and the
Pacific Northwest.

Active Portfolio Management Through Regional Economic Research and Local Market
Knowledge.  The Company was founded on the belief that the key elements of
successful real estate investment and portfolio growth include extensive
regional economic research and local market knowledge. The Company utilizes its
economic research and local market knowledge to make appropriate portfolio
allocation decisions that it believes result in better overall operating
performance and lower portfolio risk.  The Company maintains and evaluates:

     .    Regional Economic Data. The Company evaluates and reviews regional
          economic factors for the markets in which it owns properties and where
          it considers expanding its operations. The Company's research focuses
          on regional and sub-market supply and demand, economic diversity, job
          growth, market depth and the comparison of rents to down payments and
          occupancy costs associated with single-family housing.

     .    Local Market Conditions. Local market knowledge includes (i) local
          factors that influence whether a sub-market is desirable to tenants;
          (ii) the extent to which the area surrounding a property is improving
          or deteriorating; and (iii) local investment market dynamics,
          including the relationship between the value of a property and its
          yield, the prospects for capital appreciation and market depth.



Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly
evaluates the results of regional economic and local market research and adjusts
portfolio allocations accordingly. The Company actively manages the allocation
of assets within its portfolio. The Company seeks to increase its portfolio
allocation in markets projected to have economic growth and to decrease such
allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions.
Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets
that have attractive property valuations and to decrease such allocations in
markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields.  Although the
Company is generally a long-term investor, it does not establish defined or
preferred holding periods for its Properties.

Current Business Activities
- ---------------------------

The Company conducts substantially all of its activities through the Operating
Partnership, of which it owns an approximate 89.6% general partnership interest.
The approximate 10.4% limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership
are owned by directors, officers and employees of the Company and certain third-
party investors.  As the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, the
Company has operating control over the management of the Operating Partnership
and each of the Properties.  From time to time, the Company may invest in
properties through the acquisition of an interest in another entity, based upon
the criteria described above.  The Company does not plan to invest in any
securities of other entities not engaged in real estate related activities.

The Company has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT")
for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31,
1994. The Company provides some of its fee-based asset management and
disposition services as well as third-party property management and leasing
services through Essex Management Corporation ("EMC"), in order to maintain
compliance with REIT tax rules.  The Company owns 100% of EMC's 19,000 shares of
nonvoting preferred stock.  Executives of the Company own 100% of EMC's 1,000
shares of common stock.

In the second quarter of 2000, The Company invested in three joint venture
partnerships in which it holds limited partnership interests.  Two of these
partnerships own one multifamily property and the other partnership owns another
multifamily property.  These investments were made under arrangements whereby
EMC became the general partner and the other limited partners were granted the
right to require the applicable partnership to redeem their interest for cash.
Subject to certain conditions, the Company may, however, elect to deliver an
equivalent number of shares of the Company's Common Stock in satisfaction of the
applicable partnerships cash redemption obligation.

California and other western states have experienced shortages of electricity
and significantly higher natural gas prices, caused by the failure to expand
capacity and transmission Infrastructure consistent with the region's economic
growth.  Residents of the multifamily properties operated by the Company are
typically billed directly for the cost of gas and electricity, or energy, used
in their apartment home.  As a result, the Company's responsibility for energy
costs is typically associated with the operation of the leasing office, swimming
pools, spas and other amenities, site lighting, and vacant apartment units.  In
addition, many of the multifamily properties utilize a boiler system to produce
hot water that is provided to residents at the Company's expense.  In 2000, the
Company incurred costs for natural gas and electricity in the operations of its
Communities averaged $22 per unit per month.  Electrical power disruption, and
higher energy costs could adversely affect the local economies in which the
Company's multifamily properties are located, which in turn, could adversely
affect the revenues from those properties and the Company's results of
operations in general.

Acquisitions
- ------------

During 2000, the Company acquired ownership interests in twelve multifamily
properties consisting of 2,813 units with an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $227,600,000. These investments were primarily funded by the
contribution of equity from joint venture partners, issuance of Operating
Partnership units which are convertible into Common Stock of the Company, cash
generated from operations, proceeds from the dispositions of properties,
proceeds from new and assumed loans and the Company's lines of credit.  Of the
twelve properties purchased in 2000, seven properties (1,834 units) are located
in Southern California, three (540 units) are located in Northern California and
two (439 units) are located in the Pacific Northwest.




Multifamily property ownership interests acquired in 2000 are as follows:

(1)  The Company holds a limited partner interest in the partnerships which own
     these multifamily properties.  These investments were made under
     arrangements whereby EMC became the general partner and the existing
     partners were granted the right to require the applicable partnership to
     redeem their interest for cash.  Subject to certain conditions, the Company
     may, however, elect to deliver an equivalent number of shares of the
     Company's Common Stock in satisfaction of the applicable partnership's cash
     redemption obligation.
(2)  Represents the acquisition of land underlying the property.  Of the total
     purchase price of $45.3 million, $9.7 million was allocated to land, which
     is owned by Essex, and $35.6 million to building and improvements, which
     are owned by an unaffiliated third party and are subject to a lease
     agreement with Essex.
(3)  The Company plans to contribute this property to a joint venture that may
     be formed in the future.  Accordingly, the Company's investment in this
     asset is reflected in the Company's financial statements as notes
     receivable from investees and other related party receivables and
     investments.
(4)  The Company issued an aggregate of 59,291 Operating Partnerships units
     convertible into Common Stock in conjunction with these transactions.  The
     purchase price indicated above does not include a contingent payment to be
     determined at a future date.  This additional payment will be based on an
     amount which provides Essex with a targeted yield on the property.

Dispositions
- ------------

In 2000 the Company sold one property in Northern California for $15.8 million.
There was a $9,000 gain recognized on this sale. The Company also sold the
buildings, land improvements, and a leasehold interest in the land for a
property in Southern California for $15.3 million and realized a gain in the
amount of $4.0 million.  The land lease entitles Essex to receive a fixed land
lease payment over a thirty four year term, which is subordinated to a
$12,622,000, 8.25% fixed rate loan secured by the property, which matures in
February 2007 and an interest in future appreciation.  Essex can be required to
sell the land after six years as specified in the buyout provisions of the
agreement.  The proceeds were used to fund acquisitions of multifamily
properties and to repay borrowings under the Company's lines of credit.

Development
- -----------

Development communities are defined by the Company as new apartment properties
that are being constructed or are newly constructed and in a phase of lease-up
and have not yet reached stabilized operations. As of December 31, 2000, the
Company had five development communities, with an aggregate of 1,349 multifamily
units. During 2000, the Company announced three new development communities and
also reached stabilized operations at five apartment properties containing units
that were previously reported as development communities. In connection with the
properties currently under development, the Company has directly, or in some
cases through its joint venture entities, entered into contractual construction
related commitments with unrelated third parties. As of December 31, 2000, the
Company is committed to fund approximately $108.6 million. The following table
sets forth information regarding the development communities at December 31,
2000.





(1)  Project estimated cost as of December 31, 2000 includes total estimated and
     incurred costs for the development projects.
(2)  The Company is a  20% partner in the entity which is developing Tierra
     Vista.
(3)  The Company plans to contribute this asset to a joint venture that may be
     formed in the future.
(4)  The Company is the sole owner of these development projects.
(5)  Represents development projects which have not been finalized regarding
     estimated costs and units to be developed.

The Company intends to continue to pursue the development of multifamily
communities to the extent that the market conditions and the specific project
terms are considered favorable.

Redevelopment
- --------------

Redevelopment communities are defined by the Company as existing properties
owned or recently acquired which have been targeted for additional investment by
the Company with the expectation of increased financial returns.  Redevelopment
communities typically have apartment units that are under construction and as a
result, may have less than stabilized operations.  The Company is entitled to
receive redevelopment fee income on the joint venture redevelopment communities.
As of December 31, 2000, the Company had the following five redevelopment
communities.


(1)  The Company owns 100% of each redevelopment community unless otherwise
     noted.
(2)  Represents the projected cost of renovation of the apartment community
     excluding the original cost of land and buildings.
(3)  The Company holds an approximate 49.9% interest in the joint venture that
     owns this property.
(4)  The Company holds a 20% interest in the joint venture that owns this
     property.
(5)  The redevelopment for this property includes renovation of the leasing
     center only.

Offices and Employees
- ---------------------

The Company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California, and has regional offices
in Seattle, Washington, Portland, Oregon, Calabasas, California and Tustin,
California.  As of December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately 636
employees.



Environmental Matters
- ---------------------

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an
owner or operator of real estate is liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on, or in such property.
Such laws often impose liability without regard as to whether the owner or
operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or
toxic substances.  The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly
remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's or operator's
ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as
collateral.  Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or
toxic substances or wastes also may be liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment facility to which
such substances or wastes were sent, whether or not such facility is owned or
operated by such person.  In addition, certain environmental laws impose
liability for release of asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs"), into the air,
and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties
for personal injury associated with ACMs. In connection with the ownership
(direct or indirect), operation, management and development of real properties,
the Company could be considered an owner or operator of such properties or as
having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances
and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as
well as certain other costs, including governmental fines and costs related to
injuries of persons and property.

All of the Properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental
assessments, including a review of historical and public data ("Phase I
assessments"), by independent environmental consultants.  Phase I assessments
generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the
Property, including a preliminary investigation of the site, an identification
of publicly known conditions occurring at  properties in the vicinity of the
site, an investigation as to the presence of polychlorinated biphenyl's
("PCBs"), ACMs and above-ground and underground storage tanks presently or
formerly at the sites, and preparation and issuance of written reports.  As a
result of information collected in the Phase I assessments, certain of the
Properties were subjected to additional environmental investigations, including,
in a few cases, soil sampling or ground water analysis to further evaluate the
environmental conditions of those Properties.

The environmental studies revealed the presence of groundwater contamination on
certain of the Properties.  Certain of these Properties had contamination which
was reported to have migrated on-site from adjacent industrial manufacturing
operations, and one Property was previously occupied by an industrial user that
was identified as the source of contamination.  The environmental studies noted
that certain of the Properties are located adjacent to and possibly down
gradient from sites with known groundwater contamination, the lateral limits of
which may extend onto such Properties.  The environmental studies also noted
that contamination existed at certain Properties because of the former presence
of underground fuel storage tanks that have been removed.  There are asbestos-
containing material in a number of the properties, primarily in the form of
ceiling texture, floor tiles and adhesives, which are generally in good
condition.  At properties where radon, hydrogen sulfide or methane has been
identified as a potential concern, the Company has implemented remediating
measures and/or additional testing.  Based on its current knowledge, the Company
does not believe that future liabilities associated with asbestos, radon,
hydrogen sulfide or methane will be material. Based on the information contained
in the environmental studies, the Company believes that the costs, if any, it
might bear as a result of environmental contamination or other conditions at
these Properties would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition, result of operations, or liquidity.

Certain Properties that have been sold by the Company were identified as having
potential groundwater contamination.  While the Company does not anticipate any
losses or costs related to groundwater contamination on Properties that have
been sold, it is possible that such losses or costs may materialize in the
future.

Except with respect to one Property, the Company has no indemnification
agreements from third parties for potential environmental clean-up costs at its
Properties.   The Company has no way of determining at this time the magnitude
of any potential liability to which it may be subject arising out of unknown
environmental conditions or violations with respect to the properties formerly
owned by the Company.  No assurance can be given that existing environmental
studies with respect to any of the Properties reveal all environmental
liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of a Property did not create any
material environmental condition not known to the Company, or that a material
environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of the
Properties.  The Company has limited insurance coverage for the types of
environmental liabilities described above.

Insurance
- ---------

The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental
loss insurance for each of the Properties.  There are, however, certain types of
extraordinary losses for which the Company does not have insurance.  All of the
Properties are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity.  The
Company has obtained earthquake insurance for all the Properties.  This
earthquake insurance is subject to an aggregate limit of $40.0 million payable
upon a covered loss in excess of a $7.5 million self-insured retention amount
and a 5% deductible.  The Company may selectively exclude properties from being
covered by earthquake insurance based on management's evaluation of the
following factors: (i) the availability of coverage on terms acceptable to the
Company, (ii) the location of the property and the amount of seismic activity
affecting that region, and, (iii) the age of the property and building codes in
effect at the time of construction.  Despite earthquake coverage on all of the
Company's Properties, should a property sustain damage as a result of an
earthquake, the Company may incur losses due to deductibles, co-payments and
losses in excess of applicable insurance, if any.

Although the Company carries certain insurance for non-earthquake damages to its
properties and liability insurance, the Company may still incur losses due to
uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in excess of applicable
insurance coverage.



Competition
- -----------

The Company's Properties compete for tenants with similar properties primarily
on the basis of location, rent charged, services provided, and the design and
condition of the improvements.  Competition for tenants from competing
properties affects the amount of rent charged as well as rental growth rates,
vacancy rates, deposit amounts, and the services and features provided at each
property. While economic conditions are generally stable in the Company's target
markets, a prolonged economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

The Company also experiences competition when attempting to acquire properties
that meet its investment criteria.  Such competing buyers include domestic and
foreign financial institutions, other REIT's, life insurance companies, pension
funds, trust funds, partnerships and individual investors.

Working Capital
- ---------------

The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements by using its
working capital, cash generated from operations, and its amounts available on
its lines of credit.  The Company believes that its future net cash flows will
be adequate to meet operating requirements and to provide for payment of
dividends by the Company in accordance with REIT qualification requirements.
The Company has credit facilities in the committed amount of approximately
$150,000,000. At December 31, 2000 the Company had an outstanding balance of
$93,469,000 under these facilities.


Other Matters/Risk Factors

Debt Financing
- --------------

At December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately $595,535,000 of indebtedness
(including $170,513,000 of variable rate indebtedness, of which $58,820,000 is
capped at interest rates ranging from 7.1% to 7.3%).

  Essex is subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing,
  including the following:

 .  cash flow may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal and
   interest;

 .  inability to refinance existing indebtedness on encumbered Properties; and

 .  the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing
   indebtedness.

Uncertainty of Ability to Refinance Balloon Payments

At December 31, 2000, the Company had an aggregate of approximately $595,535,000
of mortgage debt and line of credit borrowings, some of which are subject to
balloon payments of principal. The Company does not expect to have sufficient
cash flows from operations to make all of such balloon payments when due under
these mortgages and the line of credit borrowings. At December 31, 2000, these
mortgages and lines of credit borrowings had the following scheduled maturity
dates: 2001 - $28.1 million; 2002 - $97.8 million; 2003 - $20.9 million; 2004 -
$2.9 million, 2005 - $34.9 million, 2006 and thereafter - $410.9 million. The
Company may not be able to refinance such mortgage indebtedness. The Properties
subject to these mortgages could be foreclosed upon or otherwise transferred to
the mortgage. This could mean a loss to the Company of income and asset value.
Alternatively, the Company may be required to refinance the debt at higher
interest rates. If the Company is unable to make such payments when due, a
mortgage lender could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, which
could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.

Risk Of Rising Interest Payments

At December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately $58,820,000 of long-term
variable rate indebtedness bearing interest at a floating rate tied to the rate
of short-term tax exempt securities (which matures at various dates from 2020
through 2026), $18,224,000 of long-term variable rate indebtedness bearing
interest at 1.75% over LIBOR, which matures in May, 2001 and $93,469,000 of
variable rate indebtedness under its lines of credit bearing interest at rates
ranging from 1.15% - 1.175% over LIBOR.  Although, $58,820,000 of long-term
variable rate indebtedness is subject to an interest rate protection agreement,
which may reduce the risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates, the
remaining $111,693,000 of long-term variable rate indebtedness is not subject to
any interest rate protection agreement, consequently, an increase in interest
rates may have an adverse effect on net income and results of operations of the
Company.

Risk of losses on Interest Rate Hedging Arrangements

The Company has, from time to time, entered into agreements to reduce the risks
associated with increases in interest rates, and may continue to do so.
Although these agreements may partially protect against rising interest rates,
these agreements also may reduce the benefits to the Company when interest rates
decline. There can be no assurance that any such hedging arrangements can be
refinanced or that the Company will be able to enter into other hedging
arrangements to replace existing ones if interest rates decline. Furthermore,
interest rate movements during the term of interest rate hedging arrangements
may result in a gain or loss on the Company's investment in the hedging
arrangement. In addition, if a hedging arrangement is not indexed to the same
rate as the indebtedness that is hedged, the Company may be exposed to losses to
the extent that the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the
hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally, nonperformance
by the other party to the hedging arrangement may subject the Company to




increased credit risks. In order to minimize counterparty credit risk, the
Company's policy is to enter into hedging arrangements only with large financial
institutions.

Acquisition Activities: Risks That Acquisitions Will Fail To Meet Expectations

The Company intends to continue to acquire multifamily residential properties.
There are risks that acquired properties will fail to perform as expected.
Estimates of future income, expenses and the costs of improvements necessary to
allow the Company to market an acquired property as originally intended may
prove to be inaccurate. In addition, the Company expects to finance future
acquisitions, in whole or in part, under various forms of secured or unsecured
financing or through the issuance of partnership units by the Operating
Partnership or additional equity by the Company. The use of equity financing,
rather than debt, for future developments or acquisitions could dilute the
interest of the Company's existing stockholders. If new acquisitions are
financed under existing lines of credit, there is a risk that, unless substitute
financing is obtained, further availability under the lines of credit for new
development may not be available or may be available only on disadvantageous
terms. Also, the Company may not be able to refinance its existing lines of
credit upon maturity, or the terms of such refinancing may not be as favorable
as the terms of the existing indebtedness.  Further, acquisitions of properties
are subject to the general risks associated with real estate investments. See
"Adverse Effect to Property Income and Value Due to General Real Estate
Investment Risks."

Risks That Development Activities Will Be Delayed,Not Completed, and/ or Fail to
Achieve Expected Results

The Company pursues multifamily residential property development projects from
time to time. Development projects generally require various governmental and
other approvals, the receipt of which cannot be assured. The Company's
development activities generally entail certain risks, including the following:

 .  funds may be expended and management's time devoted to projects that may not
   be completed;

 .  construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates possibly making
   the project economically unfeasible;

 .  development projects may be delayed due to, among other things, adverse
   weather conditions;

 .  occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may be less than
   anticipated; and

 .  expenses at a completed development may be higher than anticipated.

These risks may reduce the funds available for distribution to the Company's
stockholders. Further, the development of properties is also subject to the
general risks associated with real estate investments. See "Adverse Effect to
Property Income and Value Due to General Real Estate Investment Risks."

The Geographic Concentration Of The Properties And Fluctuations In Local Market
May Adversely Impact Income

Significant amounts of rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2000,
were derived from Properties concentrated in Northern California (the San
Francisco Bay Area), Southern California (Los Angeles, Ventura, Orange and San
Diego counties), and the Pacific Northwest (the Seattle, Washington and
Portland, Oregon metropolitan areas). As a result of this geographic
concentration, if a local property market performs poorly, the income from the
Properties in that market could decrease. As a result of such a decrease in
income, the Company may be unable to pay expected dividends to the Company's
stockholders. The performance of the economy in each of these areas affects
occupancy, market rental rates and expenses and, consequently impacts the income
generated from the Properties and their underlying values. The financial results
of major local employers may also impact the cash flow and value of certain of
the Properties. Economic downturns in the local markets in which the Company
owns properties could have a negative impact on the financial condition and
results from operations of the Company.

Of our 83 ownership interests in multi-family residential properties, 57 are
located in California.  A downturn in either the California economy or in
California real estate conditions could adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations.

Competition In The Multifamily Residential Market May Adversely Affect
Operations And The Rental Demand For the Company's Properties

There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the multifamily
Properties in attracting residents. These include other multifamily rental
apartments and single family homes that are available for rent in the markets in
which the Properties are located. The Properties also compete for residents with
new and existing homes and condominiums that are for sale. If the demand for the
Company's Properties is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire
competing properties on a more cost-effective basis, rental rates may drop,
which may have a material adverse affect on the financial condition and results
of operations of the Company.

The Company also faces competition from other real estate investment trusts,
businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of
properties. Some of the competitors are larger and have greater financial
resources than the Company. This competition may result in increased costs of
properties the Company acquires and/or develops.



Debt Financing On Properties May Result In Insufficient Cash Flow

Where possible, the Company intends to continue to use leverage to increase the
rate of return on its investments and to provide for additional investments that
the Company could not otherwise make. There is a risk that the cash flow from
the Properties will be insufficient to meet both debt payment obligations and
the distribution requirements of the real estate investment trust provisions of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Company may obtain additional
debt financing in the future, through mortgages on some or all of the
Properties. These mortgages may be recourse, non-recourse, or cross-
collateralized. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had 41 properties
encumbered by debt.  Of the 41 properties, 22 are secured by deeds of trust
relating solely to those properties, and with respect to the remaining 19
properties, five cross-collateralized mortgages are secured by eight properties,
three properties, three properties, three properties and two properties,
respectively. The holders of this indebtedness will have a claim against these
Properties and to the extent indebtedness is cross-collateralized, lenders may
seek to foreclose upon properties which are not the primary collateral for their
loan. This may, in turn, accelerate other indebtedness secured by Properties.
Foreclosure of Properties would cause a loss to the Company of income and asset
value.

Increase In Dividend Requirements As A Result Of Preferred Stock May Lead To A
Possible Inability To Sustain Dividends

In 1998 and 1999, the Operating Partnership issued $210 million in aggregate of
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units (the "Series B Preferred Units"),
Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units, (the "Series C Preferred
Units"), Series D Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units (the "Series D Preferred
Units") and Series E Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units (the "Series E
Preferred Units").  The Series B Preferred Units, the Series C Preferred Units,
the Series D Preferred Units and the Series E Preferred Units are collectively
referred to herein as the "Preferred Units".

The terms of the preferred stock into which each series of Preferred Units are
exchangeable provide for certain cumulative preferential cash distributions per
each share of preferred stock.  These terms also provide that while such
preferred stock is outstanding, no distributions may be authorized, declared or
paid on the Common Stock unless all distributions accumulated on all shares of
such preferred stock have been paid in full.  The distributions payable on such
preferred stock and on the Convertible Preferred Stock may impair the Company's
ability to pay dividends on its Common Stock.

If the Company wishes to issue any Common Stock in the future (including, upon
exercise of stock options), the funds required to continue to pay cash dividends
at current levels will be increased.  The Company's ability to pay dividends
will depend largely upon the performance of the Properties and other properties
that may be acquired in the future.

The Company's ability to pay dividends on the Company's stock is further limited
by the Maryland General Corporation Law.  Under the Maryland General Corporation
Law, the Company may not make a distribution on stock if, after giving effect to
such distribution, either:

 .  the Company would not be able to pay its indebtedness as it becomes due in
   the usual course of business; or

 .  the Company's total assets would be less than its total liabilities.

If the Company cannot pay dividends on its stock, its status as a real estate
investment trust may be jeopardized.

Existing Registration Rights And Preemptive Rights May Have An Adverse Effect On
The Market Price Of The Shares

Registration rights are held by the senior members of the Company's management
and certain outside investors (collectively, the "Operating Partnership
Holders") who as of December 31, 2000 owned approximately 10.4% limited
partnership interests in the Operating Partnership. These rights include certain
"demand" and "piggyback" registration rights with respect to shares of Common
Stock issuable in connection with the exchange of their limited partnership
interests in the Operating Partnership. The aggregate 10.4% limited partnership
interests held by the "Operating Partnership Holders" in the Operating
Partnership is exchangeable for an aggregate of 2,129,430 shares of Common
Stock. In addition, the Operating Partnership has invested in certain real
estate partnerships. Certain partners in such limited partnerships have the
right to have their limited partnership interests in such partnerships redeemed
for cash or, at the Company's option, for 1,070,450 shares of Common Stock.
These partners also have certain "demand" and "piggyback" registration rights
with respect to the shares of Common Stock that may be issued in exchange for
such limited partnership interests.  All of the registration rights discussed
above could materially adversely affect the market price for the shares of
Common Stock.

Our Chairman is Involved in Other Real Estate Activities and Investments, Which
May Lead to Conflicts of Interest

Our Chairman, George Marcus, owns interests in various other real estate-related
business and investments.  He is the Chairman of the Marcus & Millichap Company
("M&M"), which is a real estate brokerage firm.  M&M has an interest in Pacific
Properties, a company that invests in West Coast multifamily residential
properties.  The Company has sold an office building which it previously
occupied the Marcus & Millichap Company.

Mr. Marcus has entered into an agreement with the Company whereby the Company
has the right of first refusal to acquire multifamily properties under contract
by Marcus & Millichap and its affiliates.  Notwithstanding this agreement, Mr.
Marcus and affiliated entities, may potentially compete with the Company in
acquiring multifamily properties, which competition may be detrimental to the
Company.  In addition, due to such potential competition for real estate
investments, Mr. Marcus and affiliated entities may have a conflict of interest
with the Company, which may be detrimental to the interests of the Company's
shareholders.



The Influence of Executive Officers, Directors and Significant Stockholders May
Be Detrimental To Holders of Common Stock

As of December 31, 2000, George M. Marcus, the Chairman of the Company's Board
of Directors, beneficially owned 1,969,183 shares of Common Stock (including
shares issuable upon exchange of limited partnership interests in the Operating
Partnership and assuming exercise of all vested options). This represents
approximately 9.6% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. Mr. Marcus
currently does not have majority control over the Company. However, he currently
has, and likely will continue to have, significant influence with respect to the
election of directors and approval or disapproval of significant corporate
actions.  Consequently, his influence could result in decisions that do not
reflect the interests of all stockholders of the Company.

Under the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, the consent of the
holders of limited partnership interests is generally required for any amendment
of the agreement and for certain extraordinary actions.  Through their ownership
of limited partnership interests and their positions in the Company, the
Company's directors and executive officers, including Messrs.  Marcus and
Millichap, have substantial influence on the Company.  Consequently, their
influence could result in decisions that do not reflect the interests of all
stockholders of the Company.

The Voting Rights Of Preferred Stock May Allow Holders Of Preferred Stock To
Impede Actions That Otherwise Benefit Holders Of Common Stock

In general, the holders of the preferred stock into which the Company's
Preferred Units are exchangeable do not have any voting rights.  However, if
full distributions are not made on any outstanding preferred stock for six
quarterly distributions periods, the holders of preferred stock who have not
received distributions, voting together as a single class, will have the right
to elect two additional directors to serve on the Company's Board of Directors.
These voting rights continue until all distributions in arrears and
distributions for the current quarterly period on the preferred stock have been
paid in full.  At that time, the holders of the preferred stock are divested of
these voting rights, and the term and office of the directors so elected
immediately terminates.

In addition, while any shares of preferred stock (into which the preferred units
are exchangeable) are outstanding, the Company (1) may not authorize or create
any class of series of stock that ranks senior to this preferred stock with
respect to the payment of dividends, rights upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding-up of the Company, or (2) amend, alter or repeal the provisions of the
Company's Charter or Bylaws, that would materially and adversely affect these
rights without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding
shares of each series of preferred stock (as applicable), each voting separately
as a single class.  Also, while any shares of preferred stock are outstanding,
the Company may not (1) merge or consolidate with another entity, or (2)
transfer substantially all of its assets to any corporation or other entity,
without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of each
series of preferred stock, each voting separately as a class, unless the
transaction meets certain criteria.  These voting rights of the preferred stock
may allow holders of preferred stock to impede or veto actions by the Company
that would otherwise benefit the holders of the Company's Common Stock.

Exemption Of George Marcus From The Maryland Business Combination Law May Allow
Certain Transactions Between The Company And George Marcus To Proceed Without
Compliance With Such Law

The Maryland General Corporation Law establishes special requirements for
"business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and "interested
stockholders" unless exemptions are applicable. An interested stockholder is any
person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the
then-outstanding voting stock. Among other things, the law prohibits for a
period of five years a merger and other similar transactions between the Company
and an interested stockholder unless the Board of Directors approved the
transaction prior to the party becoming an interested stockholder. The five year
period runs from the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became
an interested stockholder. The law also requires a supermajority stockholder
vote for such transactions after the end of the five year period. This means
that the transaction must be approved by at least:

 .  80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares;
   and

 .  66% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares
   other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom the business
   combination is to be effected.

However, as permitted by the statute, the Board of Directors irrevocably has
elected to exempt any business combination by the Company George M. Marcus,
William A. Millichap, who are the chairman and a director of the Company,
respectively, and The Marcus & Millichap Company ("M&M") or any entity owned or
controlled by Messrs Marcus and Millichap and M&M. Consequently, the five-year
prohibition and the super-majority vote requirement described above will not
apply to any business combination between the Company and, Mr. Marcus, Mr.
Millichap, or M&M. As a result, the Company may in the future enter into
business combinations with Messrs Marcus and Millichap and M&M, without
compliance with the super-majority vote requirements and other provisions of the
Maryland General Corporation Law.

Anti-Takeover Provisions Contained In The Operating Partnership Agreement,
Charter, Bylaws, And Certain Provisions Of Maryland Law Could Delay, Defer Or
Prevent A Change In Control Of the Company

While the Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, and
generally has full and exclusive responsibility and discretion in the management
and control of the Operating Partnership, certain provisions of the Operating
Partnership's Partnership Agreement place limitations on the Company's ability
to act with respect to the Operating Partnership. Such limitations could delay,
defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control of the Company that might
involve a premium price for the stock or otherwise be in the best interest of
the stockholders or that could otherwise adversely affect the interest of the
stockholders. The Partnership Agreement provides that if the limited partners
own at least 5% of the outstanding units of limited partnership interest in the
Operating Partnership, the



Company cannot, without first obtaining the consent of a majority-in-interest of
the limited partners in the Operating Partnership, transfer all or any portion
of the Company's general partner interest in the Operating Partnership to
another entity. Such limitations on the Company's ability to act may result in
the Company being precluded from taking action that the Board of Directors
believes is in the best interests of the Company's stockholders. In addition, as
of December 31, 2000, two individuals together held more than 50% of the
outstanding units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership,
allowing such actions to be blocked by a small number of limited partners.

The Company's charter authorizes the issuance of additional shares of Common
Stock or preferred stock and the setting of the preferences, rights and other
terms of such preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the Common
Stock.  Although the Company has no intention to issue any additional shares of
preferred stock at the present time, the Company may establish one or more
series of preferred stock that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a
change in control of the Company. Such a transaction might involve a premium
price for the Company's stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the
holders of Common Stock. Also, such a class of preferred stock could have
dividend, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the interest of
holders of Common Stock.

The Company's charter, as well as its stockholder rights plan, also contains
other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in
control of the Company that might be in the best interest of the Company's
stockholders. The Company's stockholder rights plan is designed, among other
things, to prevent a person or group from gaining control of the Company without
offering a fair price to all of the Company's stockholders. Also, the Bylaws may
be amended by the Board of Directors to include provisions that would have a
similar effect, although the Company presently has no such intention.  The
Charter contains ownership provisions limiting the transferability and ownership
of shares of capital stock, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or
preventing a transaction or a change in control of the Company.  For example,
subject to receiving an exemption from the Board of Directors, potential
acquirers may not purchase more than 6% percent in value of the stock (other
than qualified pension trusts which can acquire 9.9%). This may discourage
tender offers that may be attractive to the holders of Common Stock and limit
the opportunity for stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of Common
Stock.

In addition, the Maryland General Corporations Law restricts the voting rights
of shares deemed to be "control shares." Under the Maryland General Corporations
Law, "control shares" are those which, when aggregated with any other shares
held by the acquirer, entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power within
specified ranges. Although the Bylaws exempt the Company from the control share
provisions of the Maryland General Corporations Law, the provisions of the
Bylaws may be amended or eliminated by the Board of Directors at any time in the
future.  Moreover, any such amendment or elimination of such provision of the
Bylaws may result in the application of the control share provisions of the
Maryland General Corporations Law not only to control shares which may be
acquired in the future, but also to control shares previously acquired. If the
provisions of the Bylaws are amended or eliminated, the control share provisions
of the Maryland General Corporations Law could delay, defer or prevent a
transaction or change in control of the Company that might involve a premium
price for the stock or otherwise be in the best interests of its stockholders.

The Company's Guarantee of the Director and Executive Stock Purchase Program May
Lead to Liability For the Company

In September 1999, the Company formed a program in which directors and
management of the Company can participate indirectly in an investment in the
Company's Common Stock.  The participants have entered into a swap agreement
with a securities broker whereby the securities broker has acquired, in open
marked transactions, 223,475 shares of the Company's Common Stock.  The
agreement terminates in five years, or earlier under certain circumstances, at
which time the settlement amount is determined by comparing the original
purchase price of the stock plus interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.5% to the
termination date market value of the shares and all dividends received during
the investment period.  In certain circumstances the participants may be
required to provide collateral to the securities broker.  The Company has
guaranteed performance of the participants with respect to any obligations
relating to the swap agreement.  Due to this guarantee, if the swap agreement,
upon its termination, results in a net loss to participants, the Company could
be liable for paying the loss. Further, if collateral is required to be advanced
to the securities broker, the Company could be obligated to make such advance,
which in turn could be costly to the Company.

Bond Compliance Requirements May Limit Income From Certain Properties

At December 31, 2000, the Company had approximately $58.8 million of tax-exempt
financing relating to the Inglenook Court Apartments, Wandering Creek
Apartments, Treetops Apartments, Meadowood Apartments and Camarillo Oaks
Apartments. This tax-exempt financing subjects these Properties to certain deed
restrictions and restrictive covenants. The Company expects to engage in tax-
exempt financings in the future. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended, (the "Code") and its related regulations impose various
restrictions, conditions and requirements excluding interest on qualified bond
obligations from gross income for federal income tax purposes. The Code also
requires that at least 20% of apartment units be made available to residents
with gross incomes that do not exceed 50% of the median income for the
applicable family size as determined by the Housing and Urban Development
Department of the federal government. In addition to federal requirements,
certain state and local authorities may impose additional rental restrictions.
These restrictions may limit income from the tax-exempt financed properties if
the Company is required to lower rental rates to attract residents who satisfy
the median income test. If the Company does not reserve the required number of
apartment homes for residents satisfying these income requirements, the tax-
exempt status of the bonds may be terminated, the obligations under the bond
documents may be accelerated and the Company may be subject to additional
contractual liability.

Adverse Effect To Property Income And Value Due To General Real Estate
Investment Risks

Real property investments are subject to a variety of risks. The yields
available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of income
generated and expenses incurred. If the Properties do not generate sufficient
income to meet operating expenses, including debt service and capital
expenditures, cash flow and ability to make distributions to stockholders will
be adversely affected. The



performance of the economy in each of the areas in which the Properties are
located affects occupancy, market rental rates and expenses. Consequently, the
income from the Properties and their underlying values may be impacted. The
financial results of major local employers may have an impact on the cash flow
and value of certain of the Properties as well.

  Income from the Properties may be further adversely affected by, among other
  things, the following factors:

 .  the general economic climate;

 .  local economic conditions in which the Properties are located, such as
   oversupply of space or a reduction in demand  for rental space;

 .  the attractiveness of the Properties to tenants;

 .  competition from other available space;

 .  the Company's ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance; and

 .  increased operating expenses.

Also, as leases on the Properties expire, tenants may enter into new leases on
terms that are less favorable to the Company. Income and real estate values may
also be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws (e.g., the
Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 and tax laws), interest rate levels and
the availability and terms of financing. In addition, real estate investments
are relatively illiquid and, therefore, the Company's ability to vary its
portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions may be
adversely affected.

The Company's Joint Ventures And Joint Ownership Of Properties And Partial
Interests In Corporations And Limited Partnerships Could Limit the Company's
Ability To Control Such Properties And Partial Interests

Instead of purchasing properties directly, the Company has invested and may
continue to invest as a co-venturer.  Joint venturers often have shared control
over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, it is possible that
the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, or have economic or
business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company's business
interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to the Company's
instructions or requests, or to Company policies or objectives. Consequently, a
co-venturer's actions might subject property owned by the joint venture to
additional risk.  Although the Company seeks to maintain sufficient control of
any joint venture to achieve its objectives, the Company may be unable to take
action without the Company's joint venture partners' approval, or joint venture
partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without consent.
Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, the Company could
become liable for such partner's share of joint venture liabilities.

From time to time, the Company, through the Operating Partnership, invests in
corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies or other
entities that have been formed for the purpose of acquiring, developing or
managing real property. In certain circumstances, the Operating Partnership's
interest in a particular entity may be less than a majority of the outstanding
voting interests of that entity. Therefore, the Operating Partnership's ability
to control the daily operations of such an entity may be limited. Furthermore,
the Operating Partnership may not have the power to remove a majority of the
board of directors (in the case of a corporation) or the general partner or
partners (in the case of a limited partnership) of such an entity in the event
that its operations conflict with the Operating Partnership's objectives. In
addition, the Operating Partnership may not be able to dispose of its interests
in such an entity. In the event that such an entity becomes insolvent, the
Operating Partnership may lose up to its entire investment in and any advances
to the entity.

In addition, the Company has and in the future may enter into transactions that
could require it to pay the tax liabilities of partners which contribute assets
into joint ventures or the Company's Operating Partnership for negotiated
periods of the years in the event that certain taxable events, which are within
the Company's control, occur. Although the Company plans to hold the contributed
assets or defer recognition per Internal Revenue Code Section 1031, this is no
assurance that it will be able to do so and if such tax liabilities were
incurred they would have a material impact on the Company's financial position.

Investments In Mortgages And Other Real Estate Securities

The Company may invest in securities related to real estate which could
adversely affect its ability to make distributions to stockholders.  The Company
may purchase securities issued by entities which own real estate and may also
invest in mortgages. These mortgages may be first, second or third mortgages
that may or may not be insured or otherwise guaranteed. The Company anticipates
that such investment in mortgage receivables will not in the aggregate be
significant. In general, investments in mortgages include the following risks:

 .  that the value of mortgaged property may be less than the amounts owed;

 .  that interest rates payable on the mortgages may be lower than the Company's
   cost of funds; and

 .  in the case of junior mortgages, that foreclosure of a senior mortgage would
   eliminate the junior mortgage.

If any of the above were to occur, cash flows from operations and the Company's
ability to make expected dividends to stockholders could be adversely affected.



Possible Environmental Liabilities

Investments in real property create a potential for environmental liabilities on
the part of the owner of such real property.  The Company carries certain
insurance coverage for this type of environmental risk.  The Company has
conducted environmental studies which revealed the presence of groundwater
contamination at certain properties; such contamination at certain of these
properties was reported to have migrated on-site from adjacent industrial
manufacturing operations.  The former industrial users of the properties were
identified as the source of contamination.  The environmental studies noted that
certain properties are located adjacent to any possible down gradient from sites
with known groundwater contamination, the lateral limits of which may extend
onto such properties.  The environmental studies also noted that at certain of
these properties, contamination existed because of the presence of underground
fuel storage tanks, which have been removed. In general, in connection with the
ownership, operation, financing, management and development of real properties,
the Company may be potentially liable for removal or clean-up costs, as well as
certain other costs and environmental liabilities. The Company may also be
subject to governmental fines and costs related to injuries to persons and
property.

General Uninsured Losses

The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental
loss insurance for each of the Properties. There are, however, certain types of
extraordinary losses for which the Company does not have insurance.   Certain of
the Properties are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity. The
Company has obtained certain limited earthquake insurance coverage.  The Company
may sustain losses due to insurance deductibles, co-payments on insured losses
or uninsured losses, or losses in excess of applicable coverage.

Changes In Real Estate Tax And Other Laws

Generally the Company does not directly pass through costs resulting from
changes in real estate tax laws to residential property tenants. The Company
also does not generally pass through increases in income, service or other
taxes, to tenants under leases. These costs may adversely affect funds from
operations and the ability to make distributions to stockholders. Similarly,
compliance with changes in (i) laws increasing the potential liability for
environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on
discharges or other conditions or (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws
or other laws regulating housing may result in significant unanticipated
expenditures, which would adversely affect funds from operations and the ability
to make distributions to stockholders.

Changes In Financing Policy; No Limitation On Debt

The Company has adopted a policy of maintaining a debt-to-total-market-
capitalization ratio of less than 50%. The calculation of debt-to-total-market-
capitalization is as follows:



As used in the above formula, total market capitalization is equal to the
aggregate market value of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (based on the
greater of current market price or the gross proceeds per share from public
offerings of the outstanding shares plus any undistributed net cash flow),
assuming the conversion of all limited partnership interests in the Operating
Partnership into shares of Common Stock and the gross proceeds of the preferred
units of the Operating Partnership. Based on this calculation (including the
current market price and excluding undistributed net cash flow), the Company's
debt-to-total-market-capitalization ratio was approximately 30.5% as of December
31, 2000.

The Company's organizational documents and the organizational documents of the
Operating Partnership do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that
may be incurred. Accordingly, the Board of Directors could change current
policies and the policies of the Operating Partnership regarding indebtedness.
If these policies were changed, the Company and the Operating Partnership could
incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of default on the Company's
obligations and the obligations of the Operating Partnership, and an increase in
debt service requirements that could adversely affect the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company. Such increased debt could exceed the
underlying value of the Properties.

Failure To Qualify As A Real Estate Investment Trust

The Company has operated as a qualified real estate investment trust under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, commencing with the taxable year
ended December 31, 1994. Although the Company believes that it has operated in a
manner which satisfies the real estate investment trust qualification
requirements, no assurance can be given that the Company will continue to do so.
A real estate investment trust is generally not taxed on its net income
distributed to its stockholders.  It is required to distribute at least 90% of
its taxable income to maintain qualification as a real estate investment trust.
Qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the satisfaction of
numerous requirements (some on an annual or quarterly basis) established under
the highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative
interpretations and involves the determination of various factual matters and
circumstances not entirely within the Company's control.

If the Company fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any taxable
year, it would generally be subject to federal and state income tax (including
any applicable alternative minimum tax) at corporate rates on its taxable income
for such year. Moreover, unless



entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the Company would also be
disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four
taxable years following the year of disqualification. This treatment would
reduce net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders
because of the additional tax liability for the years involved. In addition,
distributions would no longer be required to be made.

Other Matters

Certain Policies of the Company
- -------------------------------

The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it
to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  The Company has in the
past five years and may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its Common
Stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit
and (iii) offer shares of Common Stock and/or units of limited partnership
interest in the Operating Partnership as partial consideration for property
acquisitions.  The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in
partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through
subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities' underlying assets are real
estate.  In general, the Company does not (i) underwrite securities of other
issuers or (ii) actively trade in loans or other investments.

The Company primarily invests in multifamily properties in Northern California
(the San Francisco Bay Area), Southern California (Los Angeles, Ventura, Orange
and San Diego counties), and the Pacific Northwest ( the Seattle, Washington and
Portland, Oregon metropolitan areas).  The Company currently intends to continue
to invest in multifamily properties in such regions, but may change such policy
without a vote of the stockholders.

The policies discussed above may be reviewed and modified from time to time by
the Board of Directors without the vote of the stockholders.

Item 2. Properties

The Company's property portfolio (including partial ownership interests)
consists of the following 87 Properties: 83 multifamily residential Properties
containing 18,673 apartment units, one office building, which houses the
Company's headquarters, with approximately 17,400 square feet and three retail
properties with approximately 236,000 square feet. The Properties are located in
Northern California (the San Francisco Bay Area), Southern California ( Los
Angeles, Ventura, Orange and San Diego counties), and the Pacific Northwest (the
Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon metropolitan areas).  The Company's
multifamily Properties accounted for approximately 94% of the Company's revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2000.  The 83 multifamily residential Properties
had an average occupancy rate (based on "Financial Occupancy", which refers to
the percentage resulting from dividing actual rents by total possible rents as
determined by valuing occupied units at contractual rates and vacant units at
market rents) during the year ended December 31, 2000 of approximately 97%.  As
of December 31, 2000, the headquarters building was 100% occupied by the Company
and the three retail centers had an occupancy rate of 92%.  With respect to
stabilized multifamily properties with sufficient operating history, occupancy
figures are based on Financial Occupancy.  With respect to commercial properties
or properties which have not yet stabilized or have insufficient operating
history, occupancy figures are based on " Physical Occupancy" which refers to
the percentage resulting from dividing leased and occupied square footage by
rentable square footage.

For the year ended December 31, 2000, none of the Company's Properties had book
values equal to 10% or more of total assets of the Company or gross revenues
equal to 10% or more of aggregate gross revenues of the Company.

Multifamily Residential Properties
- ----------------------------------

The Company's multifamily Properties are generally suburban garden apartments
and townhomes comprising multiple clusters of two and three story buildings
situated on three to fifteen acres of land. The multifamily properties have on
average 225 units, with a mix of studio, one, two and some three bedroom units.
A wide variety of amenities are available at each apartment community,
including, covered parking, wood-burning fireplaces, swimming pools, clubhouses
with complete fitness facilities, volleyball and playground areas and tennis
courts.

Most of the multifamily Properties are designed for and marketed to people in
white-collar or technical professions. The Company selects, trains and
supervises a full team of on-site service and maintenance personnel. The Company
believes that its customer service approach enhances its ability to retain
tenants and that its multifamily Properties were built well and have been
maintained well since acquisition.

Office Buildings
- ----------------

The Company's corporate headquarters are located in a two-story office building
with approximately 17,400 square feet located at 925 East Meadow Drive, Palo
Alto, California.  The Company acquired this property in 1997.

The following tables describe the Company's Properties as of December 31, 2000.
The first table describes the Company's multifamily residential properties and
the second table describes the Company's commercial properties.













(1)  Unless otherwise specified, the Company has a 100% ownership interest in
     each Property.
(2)  For multifamily residential Properties, occupancy rates are based on
     Financial Occupancy for the year ended December 31, 2000; for the
     Commercial Properties, occupancy rates are based on Physical Occupancy as
     of December 31, 2000.
(3)  The Company has a 1.0% special limited partnership interest in this
     property.
(4)  The Company holds a limited partner interest in the partnerships which own
     these multifamily properties. These investments were made under
     arrangements whereby EMC became the general partner and the existing
     partners were granted the right to require the applicable partnership to
     redeem their interest for cash. Subject to certain conditions, the Company
     may, however, elect to deliver an equivalent number of shares of the
     Company's Common Stock in satisfaction of the applicable partnership's cash
     redemption obligation.



     (5)  The Company has a 20.0% ownership interest in this property.
     (6)  The Company is in the process of performing a $2.7 million
          redevelopment on this property.
     (7)  Financial Occupancy includes the impact of units that were not
          occupied due to redevelopment activity at this property.
     (8)  The Company completed an approximately $4.5 million redevelopment on
          this property in 1998.
     (9)  This Property is owned by a single asset limited partnership in which
          the Company has a minimum 99.0% limited partnership interest.
     (10) A portion of this Property on which 84 units are presently located is
          subject to a ground lease, which, unless extended, will expire in
          2028.
     (11) The Company has an approximate 46% limited partnership interest in
          this property.
     (12) The Company issued an aggregate 59,291 Operating Partnerships units
          convertible into Common Stock in conjunction with these transactions.
          The purchase price does not include a contingent payment to be
          determined at a future date. This additional payment will be based on
          an amount which provides Essex with a targeted yield on the property.
     (13) The Company completed construction of 114 units of the property's 462
          total units in 2000.
     (14) Financial occupancy on development properties that have reached
          stabilization is computed from the date of stabilization through
          December 31, 2000.
     (15) The Company has as approximate 45% limited partnership interest in
          this property.
     (16) The Company plans to contribute the property to a joint venture that
          may be formed in the future. Accordingly, the Company's net investment
          in this asset is reflected in the Company's financial statements as
          notes receivable from investees and related parties and investments.
     (17) The Company has a 30% special limited partnership interest in this
          property.
     (18) The property is subject to a ground lease, which, unless extended,
          will expire in 2082.
     (19) The Company owns the land of this property and has entered into a
          leasehold interest for which it receives a monthly payment for the 34
          year term of the lease. The Company may be required to sell its
          interest after 7 years.
     (20) The Company completed an approximate $1.6 million redevelopment on
          this property in 2000.
     (21) The Company completed a approximate $2.3 million redevelopment on this
          property in 2000.
     (22) The Company is in the process of performing a $10.7 million
          redevelopment on this property.
     (23) The Company has an approximate 49.9% ownership interest in this
          property.
     (24) The Company is in the process of performing a $13.6 million
          redevelopment on this property.
     (25) This property is subject to a ground lease, which, unless extended,
          will expire in 2027.
     (26) The Company completed an approximate $1.9 million redevelopment on the
          property in 2000.
     (27) The Company is in the process of performing a $1.8 million
          redevelopment on this property.
     (28) The Company is in the process of performing a $1.7 million
          redevelopment on this property.
     (29) The Company has an 84.0% limited partnership interest in this
          property.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Neither the Company nor any of the Properties is presently subject to any
material litigation nor, to the Company's knowledge, is there any material
litigation threatened against the Company or the Properties. The Properties are
subject to certain routine litigation and administrative proceedings arising in
the ordinary course of business, which, taken together, are not expected to have
a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of 2000, no matters were submitted to a vote of
security holders.

                                    Part II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The shares of the Company's common stock are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol ESS.

Market Information
- ------------------

The Company's common stock has been traded on the NYSE since June 13, 1994.  The
high, low and closing price per share of common stock reported on the NYSE for
the quarters indicated are as follows:


  The closing price as of March 21, 2001 was $50.13




Holders
- -------

The approximate number of holders of record of the shares of the Company's
common stock was 177 as of March 21, 2001. This number does not include
stockholders whose shares are held in trust by other entities. The actual number
of stockholders is greater than this number of holders of record.

Return of Capital
- -----------------

Under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the portion
of cash dividend that exceeds earnings and profits is a return of capital.  The
return of capital is generated due to the deduction of non-cash expenses,
primarily depreciation, in the determination of earnings and profits.  The
status of the cash dividends distributed for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 for tax purposes is as follows:


The most significant factor that caused an increase in the 1998 return of
capital percentage as compared to 2000 and 1999 was that in 1998 the Company
incurred a loss on the early extinguishment of debt of $4,718,000 as compared to
$119,000 and $214,000 in 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Dividends and Distributions
- ---------------------------

Since its initial public offering on June 13, 1994, the Company has paid regular
quarterly dividends to its stockholders.  From inception, the Company has paid
the following dividends per share of common stock:




Future distributions by the Company will be at the discretion of the Board of
Directors and will depend on the actual funds from operations of the Company,
its financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution
requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, applicable
legal restrictions and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems
relevant.  There are currently no contractual restrictions on the Company's
present or future ability to pay dividends.

Dividend Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan
- ---------------------------------------------

The Company has adopted a dividend reinvestment and share purchase plan designed
to provide holders of Common Stock with a convenient and economical means to
reinvest all or a portion of their cash dividends in shares of Common Stock and
to acquire additional shares of Common Stock through voluntary purchases.
Boston EquiServe, which serves as the Company's transfer agent, administers the
dividend reinvestment and share purchase plan.  For a copy of the plan, contact
Boston EquiServe at (800) 945-8245.

Stockholder Rights Plan
- -----------------------

In 1998, the Company adopted a stockholder rights plan that is designed to
enhance the ability of all of the Company's stockholders to realize the long-
term value of their investment.  The rights plan is designed, among other
things, to prevent a person or group from gaining control of the Company without
offering a fair price to all of the Company's stockholders.

On October 13, 1998, the Board declared a one of one preferred share purchase
right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of Common Stock.  Each Right
entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of
a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $.0001 per
share, of the Company, at a price of $99.13 per one-hundredth of a share,
subject to adjustment.  The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in
a Rights Agreement dated as of November 11, 1998, between the Company and
BankBoston, N.A. as Rights Agent.



Unregistered Sales of Securities
- --------------------------------

In connection with the acquisition of The Carlyle Apartments (completed in April
2000) and The Waterford Place (completed in June 2000), a portion of the amount
paid for the properties was funded through the issuance of units of limited
partnership interest ("Units") in the Operating Partnership.  Any time after one
year from the date of issuance of the Units, the holders of the Units can
require the Operating Partnership to redeem the Units for either cash, or at the
Company's option an aggregate of 59,291 shares of the Company's common stock.
This private placement of Units was completed pursuant to the exemption from
registration contained in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.


Item 6.  Summary Financial and Operating Data

The following tables set forth summary financial and operating information for
the Company from January 1, 1996 through December 31, 2000.







(1) Debt service coverage ratio represents earnings before interest expense,
    taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") divided by interest expense.

(2) Gross operating margin represents rental revenues and other property income
    less property operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization
    divided by rental revenues and other property income.

(3) Same property apartment units are those units in properties that the Company
    has consolidated for the entire two years ended as of the end of the period
    set forth.  The number of same property apartment units in such properties
    may vary at each year end.  Percentage changes in averages per unit do not
    correspond to total same property revenues and expense percent changes as
    discussed in Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.

(4) Average same property monthly rental rate per apartment unit represents
    total scheduled rent for the same property apartment units for the period
    (actual rental rates on occupied apartment units plus market rental rates on
    vacant apartment units) divided by the number of such apartment units and
    further divided by the number of months in the period.

(5) Average same property monthly expenses per apartment unit represents total
    monthly operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, for
    the same property apartment units for the period divided by the total number
    of such apartment units and further divided by the number of months in the
    period.

(6) Occupancy rates are based on Financial Occupancy which refers to the
    percentage resulting from dividing actual rents by total possible rents as
    determined by valuing occupied units at contractual rates and vacant units
    at market rates.



Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

The following discussion is based on the consolidated financial statements of
Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex" or the "Company") as of and for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.  This information should be read in
conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto.

Substantially all the assets of the Company are held by, and substantially all
operations are conducted through, Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating
Partnership").  The Company is the sole general partner of the Operating
Partnership and, as of December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998 owned an approximate
89.6%, 89.7% and 89.9% general partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership, respectively.  The Company has elected to be treated as a real
estate investment trust (a "REIT") for federal income tax purposes.

Certain statements in this "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations," and elsewhere in this Annual Report which
are not historical facts may be considered forward looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section
21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements
regarding the Company's expectations, hopes, intentions, beliefs and strategies
regarding the future.  Forward looking statements include statements regarding
the Company's expectation as to the timing of completion of current development
projects, expectation as to the total projected costs of current development
projects, beliefs as to the adequacy of future cash flows to meet operating
requirements, and to provide for dividend payments in accordance with REIT
requirements and expectations as to the amount of non-revenue generating capital
expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2001, potential acquisitions and
developments, the anticipated performance of existing properties, future
acquisitions and developments and statements regarding the Company's financing
activities.  Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks,
uncertainties and other factors including, but not limited to, that the actual
completion of development projects will be subject to delays, that the total
projected costs of current development projects will exceed expectations, that
such development projects will not be completed, that future cash flows will be
inadequate to meet operating requirements and/or will be insufficient to provide
for dividend payments in accordance with REIT requirements, that the actual non-
revenue generating capital expenditures will exceed the Company's current
expectations, as well as those risks, special considerations, and other factors
discussed under the caption "Other Matters/Risk Factors" in Item 1 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, and those other
risk factors and special considerations set forth in the Company's other filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") which may cause the
actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements.

General Background

The Company's property revenues are generated primarily from multifamily
property operations, which accounted for greater than 96% of its property
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998.  The Company's
properties ("the Properties") are located in Northern California  (the San
Francisco Bay Area), Southern California (Los Angeles, Ventura, Orange and San
Diego counties) and the Pacific Northwest (The Seattle, Washington and Portland,
Oregon metropolitan areas).  The average occupancy level of the Company's
portfolio has exceeded 95% for the last five years.

The Company has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT")
for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31,
1994. The Company provides some of its fee based asset management and
disposition services as well as third-party property management and leasing
services through Essex Management Corporation ("EMC"), in order to maintain
compliance with REIT tax rules.  The Company owns 100% of EMC's 19,000 shares of
nonvoting preferred stock.  Executives of the Company own 100% of EMC's 1,000
shares of Common Stock.

Since the Company's initial public offering (the "IPO") in June 1994, the
Company has acquired ownership interests in 70 multifamily residential
properties and its headquarters building, of which 15 are located in Northern
California, 36 are located in Southern California, 15 are located in the Seattle
Metropolitan Area and 4 are located in the Portland Metropolitan Area.  In
total, these acquisitions consist of 14,767 units with total capitalized
acquisition costs of approximately $1,178.3 million.  Additionally, since its
IPO, the Company has acquired ownership interests in 8 multifamily development
properties that have reached stabilized operations.  These development
properties consist of 1,540 units with total capitalized development costs of
$164.9 million.  As part of its active portfolio management strategy, the
Company has disposed of, since its IPO, eight multifamily residential properties
(six in Northern California, one in Southern California and one in the Pacific
Northwest) consisting of a total of 1,021 units, six retail shopping centers in
the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area and its former headquarters building
located in Northern California at an aggregate gross sales price of
approximately $115.9 million resulting in a net realized gain of approximately
$27.2 million and a deferred gain of $5.0 million.

The Company is developing 5 multifamily residential communities, with an
aggregate of 1,349 multifamily units. In connection with these development
projects, the Company has directly, or in some cases through its joint venture
partners, entered into contractual construction related commitments with
unrelated third parties for approximately $124.1 million.  As of December 31,
2000, the Company's remaining development commitment is approximately $108.6
million.

Results of Operations

Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2000 to Year Ended December 31, 1999.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Average financial occupancy rates of the Company's multifamily "Same Store
Properties" (properties consolidated by the Company for each of the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999) increased to 96.8% for the year ended December 31,
2000 from 96.0% for the year ended December 31, 1999.  Financial occupancy is
defined as the percentage resulting from dividing actual rental income by total
possible



rental income.  Total possible rental income is determined by valuing
occupied units at contract rates and vacant units at market rents.  The regional
breakdown of financial occupancy for the Same Store Properties for the years
ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 are as follows:



Total Revenues increased by $32,695,000 or 22.4% to $178,740,000 in 2000 from
$146,045,000 in 1999.  The following table sets forth a breakdown of these
revenue amounts, including the revenues attributable to the 2000/1999 Same Store
Properties.


(1) Also includes one commercial property, redevelopment communities and
development communities.

As set forth in the above table, $17,349,000 of the $32,695,000 net increase in
total revenues is attributable to properties acquired or disposed of subsequent
to January 1, 1999; the commercial property, redevelopment communities and
development communities.  During this period, the Company acquired interests in
12 properties, (the "Acquisition Properties"), and disposed of 1 multifamily
property and six retail shopping centers, (the "Disposition Properties").

Of the increase in total revenues, $9,995,000 is attributable to increases in
property revenues from the Same Store Properties. Property revenues from the
Same Store Properties increased by approximately 9.2% to $118,836,000 in 2000
from $108,841,000 in 1999.  The majority of this increase was attributable to
the 12 multifamily Same Store Properties located in Northern California, the
property revenues of which increased by $5,703,000 or 14.3% to $45,408,000 in
2000 from $39,705,000 in 1999. This $5,703,000 increase is primarily
attributable to rental rate increases, and an increase in average financial
occupancy to 98.2% in 2000 from 96.6% in 1999.  The 13 multifamily Same Store
Properties located in Southern California accounted for the next largest
contribution to this Same Store Property revenues increase.  The property
revenues of these properties increased by $2,485,000 or 6.9% to $38,306,000 in
2000 from $35,821,000 in 1999.  This $2,485,000 increase is primarily
attributable to rental rate increases, which were offset in part by a decrease
in average financial occupancy to 96.3% in 2000 from 96.8% in 1999.  The 19
multifamily Same Store Properties located in the Pacific Northwest accounted for
the next largest contribution to this Same Store Property revenues increase.
The property revenues of these properties increased by $1,807,000 or 5.4% to
$35,122,000 in 2000 from $33,315,000 in 1999.  This $1,807,000 increase is
attributable to rental rate increases, and an increase in financial occupancy to
95.9% in 2000 from 94.7% in 1999.

The increase in total revenue also reflected an increase of $5,351,000
attributable to interest and other income, which primarily relates to income and
fees earned on the Company's investments in joint ventures and interest income
earned on outstanding notes receivable and cash balances.

Total Expenses increased by $20,587,000 or approximately 21.9% to $114,540,000
in 2000 from $93,953,000 in 1999. The most significant factor contributing to
this increase was the growth in the Company's multifamily portfolio from 68
properties (15,106 units) at January 1, 1999 to 83 properties (18,673 units) at
December 31, 2000.  Interest expense increased by $9,116,000 or 42.9% to
$30,384,000 in 2000 from $21,268,000 in 1999.  Such interest expense increase
was primarily due to the net addition of mortgage debt in connection with
property and investment acquisitions and a decrease in the capitalization of
interest charges on the Company's development and redevelopment communities of
$2,266,000 or approximately 43.8% to $2,906,000 from $5,172,000 in 1999.
Property operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization,
increased by $4,984,000 or 12.0% to $46,690,000 in 2000 from $41,706,000 in
1999.  Of such increase, $5,066,000 is attributable to properties acquired or
disposed of subsequent to January 1, 1999, which was offset by a decrease in
operating expenses for the Same Store Properties.  Property operating expenses,
exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a




percentage of property revenues were 27.8% for 2000 and 29.7% for 1999. General
and administrative expenses represent the costs of the Company's various
acquisition and administrative departments as well as corporate and partnership
administration and non- operating expenses. Such expenses increased by
$1,799,000 in 2000 from the 1999 amount. This increase is largely due to
additional staffing requirements resulting from the growth of the Company.
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 3.4%
for 2000 and 2.9% for 1999.

Minority interests increased by $5,912,000 to $23,750,000 in 2000 from
$17,838,000 in 1999. This is primarily due to an issuance of perpetual preferred
units in 1999.

Net income increased by $789,000 to $44,353,000 in 2000 from $43,564,000 in
1999.  Net income for 2000 also included a gain on sales of real estate of
$4,022,000 as compared with $9,524,000 in 1999.  The net effect of this item was
offset by the net operating income of the Acquisition Properties and an increase
in net operating income from the Same Store Properties.



Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 1999 to Year Ended December 31, 1998.
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Average financial occupancy rates of the Company's multifamily "1999/1998 Same
Store Properties" (properties consolidated by the Company for each of the years
ended December 31, 1999 and 1998) increased to 96.4% for the year ended December
31, 1999 from 96.0% for the year ended December 31, 1998.  The regional
breakdown of financial occupancy for the 1999/1998 Same Store Properties for the
years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows:


Total Revenues increased by $20,786,000 or 16.6% to $146,045,000 in 1999 from
$125,259,000 in 1998.  The following table sets forth a breakdown of these
revenue amounts, including the revenues attributable to the 1999/ 1998 Same
Store Properties.


(1)  Also includes one commercial property, redevelopment communities and
development communities.

As set forth in the above table, $13,387,000 of the $20,786,000 net increase in
total revenues is attributable to properties acquired or disposed of subsequent
to January 1, 1998, the commercial property, redevelopment communities and
development communities.  During this period, the Company acquired interests in
11 properties and achieved stabilized operations at one development community,
(the "1999/1998 Acquisition Properties"), and disposed of two multifamily
properties, three retail shopping centers and one commercial property (the
"1999/1998 Disposition Properties").

Of the increase in total revenues, $4,998,000 is attributable to increases in
property revenues from the 1999/1998 Same Store Properties. Property revenues
from the 1999/1998 Same Store Properties increased by approximately 5.4% to
$98,494,000 in 1999 from $93,496,000 in 1998.  A significant portion of this
increase was attributable to the 12 multifamily 1999/1998 Same Store Properties
located in Southern California, the property revenues of which increased by
$2,100,000 or 7.5 % to $30,042,000 in 1999 from $27,942,000 in 1998. This
$2,100,000 increase is primarily attributable to rental rate increases and an
increase in average financial occupancy to 97.1% in 1999 from 96.5% in 1998.
The 12 multifamily 1999/1998 Same Store Properties located in Northern
California accounted for the next largest contribution to the 1999/1998 Same
Store Properties revenues increase.  The property revenues of these properties
increased by




$1,563,000 or 4.3% to $37,506,000 in 1999 from $35,943,000 in 1998. This
$1,563,000 increase is primarily attributable to rental rate increases, and an
increase in average financial occupancy to 97.2% in 1999 from 96.9% in 1998. The
18 multifamily 1999/ 1998 Same Store Properties located in the Pacific Northwest
accounted for the next largest contribution to the 1999/1998 Same Store
Properties revenues increase. The property revenues of these properties
increased by $1,335,000 or 4.5% to $30,946,000 in 1999 from $29,611,000 in 1998.
This $1,335,000 increase is attributable to rental rate increases, and an
increase in financial occupancy to 94.9% in 1999 from 94.5% in 1998.

The increase in total revenue also reflected an increase of $2,401,000
attributable to interest and other income, which primarily relates to income and
fees earned on the Company's investments in joint ventures and interest income
earned on outstanding notes receivable and cash balances.

Total Expenses increased by $9,285,000 or approximately 11.0% to $93,953,000 in
1999 from $84,668,000 in 1998. The most significant factor contributing to this
increase was the growth in the Company's multifamily portfolio from 54
properties (10,700 units) at January 1, 1998 to 68 properties (15,106 units) at
December 31, 1999.  Interest expense increased by $1,894,000 or 9.8% to
$21,268,000 in 1999 from $19,374,000 in 1998.  Such interest expense increase
was primarily due to the net addition of mortgage debt in connection with
property acquisitions and investments, which was offset by an increase in the
capitalization of interest charges on the Company's development and
redevelopment communities of $1,678,000 or approximately 48.0% to $5,172,000
from $3,494,000 in 1998.  Property operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation
and amortization, increased by $3,773,000 or 9.9% to $41,706,000 in 1999 from
$37,933,000 in 1998.  Of such increase, $4,093,000 is attributable to properties
acquired or disposed of subsequent to January 1, 1998, which was offset by a
decrease in operating expenses for the 1999/1998 Same Store Properties.
Property operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a
percentage of property revenues were 29.7% for 1999 and 31.1% for 1998.  General
and administrative expenses represent the costs of the Company's various
acquisition and administrative departments as well as corporate and partnership
administration and non-operating expenses.  Such expenses increased by $498,000
in 1999 from the amount incurred in 1998.  This increase is largely due to
additional staffing requirements resulting from the growth of the Company.
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenues were 2.9%
for 1999 and 3.0% for 1998.

Net income increased by $17,236,000 to $ 6,600,000 in 1999 from $26,328,000 in
1998.  Net income included an extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of debt
of  $214,000 in 1999 compared to $4,718,000 in 1998.  Net income for 1999 also
included a gain on sales of real estate of  $9,524,000 as compared with $9,000
in 1998.  Net operating income of the Acquisition Properties and the increase in
net operating income from the 1999/1998 Same Store Properties also contributed
to the increase in net income.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

At December 31, 2000, the Company had $6,600,000 of unrestricted cash and cash
equivalents.  The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements
by using its working capital, cash generated from operations, and amounts
available under lines of credit.  The Company believes that its current net cash
flows will be adequate to meet operating requirements and to provide for payment
of dividends by the Company in accordance with REIT qualification requirements.
The Company expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements relating to
property acquisitions and development (beyond the next 12 months) by using a
combination of some or all of the following sources; working capital, amounts
available on lines of credit, net proceeds from public and private debt and
equity issuances, and proceeds from the disposition of properties that may be
sold from time to time.  There can, however, be no assurance that the Company
will have access to the debt and equity markets in a timely fashion to meet such
future funding requirements or that future working capital and borrowings under
the lines of credit will be available, or if available, will be sufficient to
meet the Company's requirements or that the Company will be able to dispose of
properties in a timely manner and under terms and conditions that the Company
deems acceptable.

The Company has two outstanding unsecured lines of credit for an aggregate
amount $150,000,000. The first line, in the amount of $120,000,000, matures in
May 2002, with an option to extend it for one year thereafter. Outstanding
balances under this line of credit bear interest at a rate which uses a tiered
rate structure tied to the Company corporate ratings, if any, and leverage
rating which has been priced at LIBOR plus 1.15% during 2000 and 1999. At
December 31, 2000 the Company had $86,469,000 outstanding on this line of
credit. A second line of credit in the amount of $30,000,000 matures in
September 2001, with an option to extend for one year thereafter. Outstanding
balances, if any, on this second line bear interest based on a tiered rate
structure currently at LIBOR plus 1.175%. At December 31, 2000 the Company had
$7,000,000 outstanding on this line of credit. At December 31, 2000, the Company
had outstanding balances which bore interest rates of approximately 7.9%.

In addition to the unsecured lines of credit, the Company had $502,066,000 of
secured indebtedness at December 31, 2000.  Such indebtedness consisted of
$425,022,000 in fixed rate debt with interest rates varying from 6.6% to 8.8%
and maturity dates ranging from 2002 to 2026.  The indebtedness also includes
$58,820,000 of tax exempt variable rate demand bonds with interest rates paid
during 2000 ranging from approximately 4.5% to 5.5% and maturity dates ranging
from 2020 to 2026.  The tax exempt variable rate demand bonds are capped at
interest rates ranging from 7.1% to 7.3%.  The indebtedness also includes
$18,224,000 of variable rate debt, 1.75% over the LIBOR rate, with interest
rates paid during 2000 ranging from 7.8% to 9.5% and maturing in May 2001.

The Company's unrestricted cash balance decreased $5,748,000 from $12,348,000 as
of December 31, 1999 to $6,600,000 as of December 31, 2000.  The Company
generated $92,164,000 in cash from operating activities, used $181,600,000 of
cash in investing activities and obtained $83,688,000 of cash from financing
activities.  Of the $181,600,000 net cash used in investing activities,
$73,929,000 was used to purchase and upgrade rental properties, $43,612,000 was
used to fund real estate under development and $87,517,000 was issued as notes
receivable from investees and other related party notes and other receivables;
these expenditures were offset by $31,302,000 of proceeds received from the
disposition of rental properties.  The $83,688,000 net cash provided by
financing activities was primarily a



result of $351,194,000 of proceeds from mortgages and other notes payable as
offset by $203,004,000 of repayments of mortgages and other notes payable and
lines of credit, and $65,611,000 of dividends/distributions paid.

Non-revenue generating capital expenditures are improvements and upgrades that
extend the useful life of the property and are not related to preparing a
multifamily property unit to be rented to a tenant.  For the year ended December
31, 2000, non-revenue generating capital expenditures totaled approximately
$4,159,500 or $322 per weighted average occupancy unit.  The Company expects to
incur approximately $325 to $330 per weighted average occupancy unit in non-
revenue generating capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2001.
These expenditures do not include the improvements required in connection with
the origination of mortgage loans, expenditures for acquisition properties'
renovations and improvements which are expected to generate additional revenue,
and renovation expenditures required pursuant to tax-exempt bond financings.
The Company expects that cash from operations and/or its lines of credit will
fund such expenditures.  However, there can be no assurance that the actual
expenditures incurred during 2001 and/or the funding thereof will not be
significantly different than the Company's current expectations.

The Company is currently developing 5 multifamily residential projects, with an
aggregate of 1,349 multifamily units. Such projects involve certain risks
inherent in real estate development.  See "Other Matters/ Risk Factors--Risk
that Development Activities Will be Delayed or Not Completed" in Item 1 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.   In connection
with these development projects, the Company has directly, or in some cases
through its joint venture partners entered into contractual construction related
commitments with unrelated third parties for approximately $124,100,000. As of
December 31, 2000, the Company's remaining commitment to fund the estimated cost
to complete these development projects is approximately $108,600,000.  The
Company expects to fund such commitments by using a combination of some or all
of the following sources; its working capital, amounts available on its lines of
credit, net proceeds from public and private equity and debt issuances, and
proceeds from the disposition of properties, if any.

Pursuant to existing shelf registration statements, the Company has the capacity
to issue up to $342,000,000 of equity securities and the Operating Partnership
has the capacity to issue up to $250,000,000 of debt securities.

The Company pays quarterly dividends from cash available for distribution.
Until it is distributed, cash available for distribution is invested by the
Company primarily in short-term investment grade securities or is used by the
Company to reduce balances outstanding under its line of credit.


Funds from Operations

Industry analysts generally consider Funds from Operations ("Funds from
Operations") an appropriate measure of performance of an equity REIT.
Generally, Funds from Operations adjusts the net income of equity REITS for non-
cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of rental properties, gains/
losses on sales of real estate and extraordinary items.  Management considers
Funds from Operations to be a useful financial performance measurement of an
equity REIT because, together with net income and cash flows, Funds from
Operations provides investors with an additional basis to evaluate the
performance of a REIT to incur and service debt and to fund acquisitions and
other capital expenditures.  Funds from Operations does not represent net income
or cash flows from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting
principles  (GAAP) and is not intended to indicate whether cash flows will be
sufficient to fund cash needs.  It should not be considered as an alternative to
net income as an indicator of the REIT's operating performance or to cash flows
as a measure of liquidity.  Funds from Operations does not measure whether cash
flow is sufficient to fund all cash needs including principal amortization,
capital improvements and distributions to shareholders.  Funds from Operations
also does not represent cash flows generated from operating, investing or
financing activities as defined under GAAP.  Further, Funds from Operations as
disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to the Company's calculation of
Funds from Operations.  The following table sets forth the Company's calculation
of Funds from Operations for 2000, 1999 and 1998.





(1) Assumes conversion of all outstanding operating partnership interests in the
    Operating Partnership and Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1996A into
    shares of the Company's Common Stock.  Minority interests have been
    adjusted to reflect such conversion.



Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The Company is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of its
line of credit and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity and fund capital
expenditures and expansion of the Company's real estate investment portfolio and
operations.  The Company's interest rate risk management objective is to limit
the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower its
overall borrowing costs.  To achieve its objectives the Company borrows
primarily at fixed rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments
such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks in order to mitigate its
interest rate risk on a related financial instrument.  The Company does not
enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes.

The Company's interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques.
The table below presents the principal amounts and weighted average interest
rates by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and
sensitivity to interest rate changes. The Company believes that the principal
amounts of the Company's mortgage notes payable and line of credit approximate
fair value as of December 31, 2000 as interest rates are consistent with yields
currently available to the Company for similar instruments.

                         For the Year Ended December 31
                         ------------------------------

(1)  Capped at interest rates ranging from 7.1% to 7.3%


At December 31, 1999 the Company had four forward treasury contracts for an
aggregate notional amount of $60,000,000, fixing the 10 year treasury rate at
between 6.15%-6.26% which limits interest rate exposure on certain future debt
financing and were settled in 2000.  During the year 2000, four contracts were
sold, resulting in a net realized gain of approximately $1,384,000.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data

The response to this item is submitted as a separate section of this Form 10-K.
See Item 14.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None.
                                    PART III


Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on May 15, 2001.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on May 15, 2001.


Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on May 15, 2001.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on May 15, 2001.



                                    PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports
         on Form 8-K

(A)   Financial Statements and Report of KPMG LLP, independent            Page
      auditors                                                            ----

  (1)    Consolidated Financial Statements

         Independent Auditors' Report                                      F-1

         Balance Sheets:
         As of December 31, 2000 and December 31, 1999                     F-2

         Statements of Operations:
         For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998              F-3

         Statements of Stockholders' Equity:
         For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998              F-4

         Statements of Cash Flows:
         For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.             F-5

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                        F-6

  (2)    Financial Statement Schedule:  Real Estate and Accumulated       F-29
         Depreciation Essex Property Trust, Inc. for the year ended
         December 31, 2000


(B)  Reports on Form 8-K

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December 31,
     2000.

(C)  Exhibits



                                   SIGNATURE
                                   ---------


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Essex Property Trust, Inc.
                                          (Registrant)


Dated:           March 30, 2001
                                          By:   /s/ Michael J. Schall
                                             -------------------------
                                          Michael J. Schall
                                          Executive Vice President and
                                          Chief Financial Officer and Director

                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacity and on the date indicated.


Dated            March 30, 2001            /s/ George M. Marcus
                                          ------------------------------
                                          George M. Marcus
                                          Chairman of the Board



Dated            March 30, 2001            /s/ Keith R. Guericke
                                          ------------------------------
                                          Keith R. Guericke
                                          President and Chief Executive
                                          Officer and Vice Chairman
                                          (Principal Executive  Officer)


Dated            March 30, 2001            /s/ Michael J. Schall
                                          ------------------------------
                                          Michael J. Schall
                                          Chief Financial Officer Executive,
                                          Vice President and Director
                                          (Principal Financial Officer)


Dated            March 30, 2001            /s/ Mark J. Mikl
                                          ------------------------------
                                          Mark J. Mikl
                                          Vice President and Controller
                                          (Principal Accounting Officer)



Dated            March 30, 2001            /s/ William A. Millichap
                                          ------------------------------
                                          William A. Millichap
                                          Director



Dated            March 30, 2001            /s/ Gary P. Martin
                                          ------------------------------
                                          Gary P. Martin
                                          Director



Dated            March 30, 2001            /s/ Robert E. Larson
                                          ------------------------------
                                          Robert E. Larson
                                          Director


Dated            March 30, 2001            /s/ Thomas E. Randlett
                                          ------------------------------
                                          Thomas E. Randlett
                                          Director


                                      S-1


Dated            March 30, 2001              /s/ David W. Brady
                                            -----------------------------
                                            David W. Brady
                                            Director


Dated            March 30, 2001              /s/ Issie N. Rabinovitch
                                            -----------------------------
                                            Issie N. Rabinovitch
                                            Director


Dated            March 30, 2001              /s/ Willard H. Smith
                                            -----------------------------
                                            Willard H. Smith
                                            Director


                                      S-2


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

      Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

                  (With Independent Auditors' Report Thereon)


                          Independent Auditors' Report

The Board of Directors

Essex Property Trust, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Essex Property
Trust, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2000. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have
also audited the related financial statement schedule of Real Estate and
Accumulated Depreciation as of December 31, 2000. These consolidated financial
statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
management of Essex Property Trust, Inc. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement
schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Essex Property
Trust, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the
related financial statement schedule when considered in relation to the
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

San Francisco, California

February 2, 2001

                                      F-1


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          Consolidated Balance Sheets

                          December 31, 2000 and 1999
               (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-2


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     Consolidated Statements of Operations

                Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
               (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

                 Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                       (Dollars and shares in thousands)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-4


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                 Years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
                            (Dollars in thousands)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      F-5


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


(1) Organization and Basis of Presentation

    The accompanying consolidated financial statements present the accounts of
    Essex Property Trust, Inc. (the Company) which include the accounts of the
    Company and Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the Operating Partnership, which holds
    the operating assets of the Company). The Company was incorporated in the
    state of Maryland in March 1994. On June 13, 1994, the Company commenced
    operations with the completion of an initial public offering (the Offering)
    in which it issued 6,275,000 shares of common stock at $19.50 per share. The
    net proceeds of the Offering of $112,070 were used to acquire a 77.2%
    general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership.

    The Company has a 89.6% general partner interest and the limited partners
    own a 10.4% interest in the Operating Partnership as of December 31, 2000.
    The limited partners may convert their 2,129,430 interests into shares of
    common stock or cash (based upon the trading price of the common stock at
    the conversion date). The Company has reserved shares of common stock for
    such conversions. These conversion rights may be exercised by the limited
    partners at any time through 2024.

    The Company operates and has ownership interests in 83 multifamily
    properties (containing 18,673 units) and four commercial properties (with
    approximately 290,000 square feet) (collectively, the Properties). The
    Properties are located in Northern California (the San Francisco Bay Area),
    Southern California (Los Angeles, Ventura, Orange and San Diego counties),
    and the Pacific Northwest (Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon
    metropolitan areas).

    All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated
    in the consolidated financial statements.

(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

    (a)  Real Estate Rental Properties

         Rental properties are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
         Depreciation on rental properties has been provided over estimated
         useful lives ranging from 3 to 30 years using the straight-line method.

         Maintenance and repair expenses are charged to operations as incurred.
         Asset replacements and improvements are capitalized and depreciated
         over their estimated useful lives.

         Certain rental properties are pledged as collateral for the related
         mortgage notes payable.

                                                                     (Continued)

                                      F-6


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


         When the Company determines that a property is held for sale, it
         discontinues the periodic depreciation of that property in accordance
         with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
         121 (SFAS 121). Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of the
         carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell. In
         addition, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
         carrying amount of a property held for investment may not be fully
         recoverable, the carrying amount will be evaluated. If the sum of the
         property's expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without
         interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the property,
         then the Company will recognize an impairment loss equal to the excess
         of the carrying amount over the fair value of the property. No
         impairment has been recorded through December 31, 2000. No properties
         are classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2000 and 1999.

    (b)  Investments

         The Company consolidates or accounts for its investments in joint
         ventures and corporations under the cost method or the equity method of
         accounting based on the control it exercises through its ownership
         interests in those entities. Under the cost method, the investment is
         carried at cost of acquisition and distributions are recognized as
         income when received. Under the equity method of accounting, the
         investment is carried at cost of acquisition, plus the Company's equity
         in undistributed earnings or losses since acquisition.

    (c)  Revenues

         Rental revenue is reported on the accrual basis of accounting.

    (d)  Income Taxes

         Generally in any year in which the Company qualifies as a real estate
         investment trust (REIT) under the Internal Revenue Code (the Code), it
         is not subject to federal income tax on that portion of its income that
         it distributes to stockholders. No provision for federal income taxes
         has been made in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for
         each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, as the
         Company believes it qualifies under the code as a REIT and has made
         distributions during the periods in excess of its taxable income.

         Cash dividends distributed for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999
         and 1998 are classified for tax purposes as follows:



                                                                     (Continued)

                                      F-7


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


    (e)  Interest Rate Protection, Swap, and Forward Contracts

         The Company has from time to time used interest rate protection, swap
         and forward contracts to reduce its interest rate exposure on current
         or identified future debt transactions. Amounts paid in connection with
         such contracts were capitalized and amortized over the term of the
         contract or related debt. If the original contract was terminated, the
         gain or loss on termination was deferred and amortized over the
         remaining term of the contract. If the related debt was repaid, the
         unamortized portion of the deferred amount was charged to income or the
         contract was marked to market, as appropriate. The Company's policy is
         to manage interest rate risk for existing or anticipated borrowings.
         Future transactions of this type will be accounted for under Financial
         Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 133, which becomes effective
         for interim periods beginning in 2001.

    (f)  Deferred Charges

         Deferred charges are principally comprised of loan fees and related
         costs which are amortized over the terms of the related borrowing in a
         manner which approximates the effective interest method.

    (g)  Minority Interest

         Minority interest includes the limited partners interests in the
         Operating Partnership, the cumulative redeemable preferred units and a
         15% interest in one San Diego multifamily property held by outside
         investors.

    (h)  Interest

         The Company capitalized $2,906, $5,172 and $3,494 of interest related
         to the development of real estate during 2000, 1999 and 1998,
         respectively.

    (i)  Stock-Based Compensation

         Stock-based compensation is accounted for under Accounting Principles
         Board (APB) Opinion 25 and related Interpretations with disclosures
         specified in Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123.

    (j)  Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash

         Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when
         purchased are classified as cash equivalents. Restricted cash relates
         to reserve requirements in connection with the Company's tax exempt
         variable rate bond financings and a guarantee the Company has made on a
         first mortgage loan held by one of its joint venture partnerships.

    (k)  Reclassifications

         Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1998 balances to
         conform with the 1999 and 2000 presentations.

                                                                     (Continued)

                                      F-8



                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


    (l)  Use of Estimates

         The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
         principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
         management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
         amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
         liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
         amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual
         results could differ from those estimates.

    (m)  New Accounting Pronouncements

         In June 1998, the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Board
         (FASB) issued Financial Accounting No. 133 (SFAS 133), Accounting for
         Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. The Company will adopt
         SFAS 133 for interim periods beginning in 2001, the effective date of
         SFAS 133, as amended. Management believes that the adoption of this
         statement will not have a material impact on the Company's financial
         position or results of operations.

    (3)  Equity Transactions

         During 1999, the Operating Partnership sold Cumulative Redeemable
         Preferred Units to certain institutional investors in private
         placements as follows:



         Preferred units issued in connection with the above transactions are
         included in minority interests in the accompanying consolidated balance
         sheets.

         During 2000 and 1999, Westbrook Real Estate Fund I, L.P. (formerly
         known as Tiger/Westbrook Real Estate Fund, L.P.), and Westbrook Real
         Estate Co-Investment Partnership I, L.P. (formerly known as
         Tiger/Westbrook Real Estate Co-Investment Partnership, L.P.)
         (collectively, Tiger/Westbrook) converted 184,687 and 1,415,313
         preferred shares, respectively, of its ownership in the Company's 8.75%
         convertible preferred stock, Series 1996A (the Convertible Preferred
         Stock) into 211,071 shares and 1,617,501 shares, respectively, of
         common stock. The Company has filed a shelf registration statement
         covering Tiger/Westbrook's resale of all shares of common stock
         issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock. The shelf
         registration statement was declared effective by the Securities and
         Exchange Commission in December 1998. There was no convertible
         preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2000.

         Pursuant to existing shelf registration statements, the Company has the
         capacity to issue up to $342,000 of equity securities and the Operating
         Partnership has the capacity to issue up to $250,000 of debt
         securities.

                                                                     (Continued)

                                      F-9


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


(4)  Per Share Data

   Basic income per share before extraordinary items and diluted income per
   share before extraordinary items are calculated as follows for the years
   ended December 31:





   (1)  Securities not included because they were antidilutive.

   (2)  The following stock options are not included in the diluted earnings per
        share calculation because the options' exercise price was greater than
        the average market price of the common shares for the year and,
        therefore, the effect would be antidilutive:

                                                                     (Continued)

                                     F-10


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)



(5)  Real Estate

     (a)    Rental Properties

            Rental properties consist of the following as of December 31, 2000
and 1999:




         The properties are located in California, Washington and Oregon. The
         operations of the properties could be adversely affected by a
         recession, general economic downturn or a natural disaster in the areas
         where the properties are located.

         During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company sold one property
         to an unrelated third party and in addition sold the buildings and
         improvements and entered into a leasehold interest in the land of
         another property to an unrelated third party for $31,302 resulting in a
         gain of $4,022. The Company retained ownership of the land of the
         latter property and receives a land lease payment over a 34-year term.

         During the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company sold one property
         to an unrelated third party for $11,100 resulting in a gain of $3,085.
         The Company also sold one property for a gross sales price of $18,400
         resulting in a gain of $4,708 to an entity controlled by a member of
         the Company's Board of Directors. During the year ended 1999, the
         Company sold an 80% interest in three properties and land with
         development rights to a newly formed joint venture. The Company
         received a 20% interest in the joint venture for contributing its
         remaining 20% interest in these properties. The 80% interest was sold
         for $58,098, resulting in a gain on the sale of $1,731.

         During the year ended December 31, 1998, four properties were sold to
         third parties for $26,354 resulting in a recognized gain of $9 and a
         deferred gain of $5,002.

         The Company utilized Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 to defer the
         majority of the taxable gains resulting from these sales.

         For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, depreciation
         expense on real estate was $30,762, $25,808 and $21,890, respectively.

                                                                     (Continued)

                                     F-11


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

    (b)  Investments

         The Company has investments in a number of affiliates which are
         accounted for under the equity method. The affiliates own and operate
         multifamily rental properties.

         During 2000, the Company formed Essex VFGP, Inc. (VFGP), and received a
         49% equity interest for its capital contribution. VFGP, through the
         formation of four separate single asset limited partnerships (the VFGP
         L.P.s), purchased four properties for an aggregate a purchase price of
         $92,400, including the assumption of two loans totaling $41,300 with
         interest rates ranging from 7.8% to 7.9% and maturity dates of July
         2005 to July 2009. The remaining funding for the purchases was provided
         by promissory notes issued to the VFGP L.P.s from the Company. VFGP
         plans to contribute its interests in these properties to a joint
         venture that is expected to be completed in 2001.

         In October 1999, the Company entered into two separate joint venture
         arrangements and received an approximate 49.9% equity interest in each.
         Together with the joint venture partners, the Company formed two
         separate private REITs, Newport Beach North, Inc. and Newport Beach
         South, Inc. Newport Beach North, Inc. and Newport Beach South, Inc. own
         an approximate 99.65% interest in Newport Beach North, LLC and Newport
         Beach South, LLC, respectively. The Company contributed its investment
         of Coronado at Newport - North, an acquisition made in the third
         quarter of 1999, to Newport Beach North, LLC. At the same time, the
         partners in Newport Beach South, LLC purchased Coronado at Newport -
         South, a 715-unit apartment community located in Newport Beach,
         California, for a contract price of $64,500. The two entities have
         identical ownership structures, and generally, profit and loss are
         allocated to the partners in accordance with their ownership interests.
         In addition to its equity earnings, the Company is entitled to
         management and redevelopment fees from the joint ventures and incentive
         payments based on the financial success of the joint ventures.

         In connection with formation of the two joint ventures, the entities
         obtained nonrecourse debt financing of $34,100 and $37,600 for Newport
         Beach North, LLC and Newport Beach South, LLC, respectively. The loans
         bear interest at LIBOR plus 2.25% and mature in 2002. The joint venture
         entities plan to invest a total of approximately $28,000 additionally
         into the properties for exterior and interior renovation and such
         investment is intended to be funded through additional advances under
         the loans referred to above.

         In December 1999, the Company entered into a joint venture arrangement
         and received an approximate 20% equity interest in the joint venture.
         The Company contributed its investment in Riverfront Apartments, Casa
         Mango Apartments, and Westwood Apartments into the joint venture (AEW
         joint venture). The Company also contributed land and development
         rights for a development community located in Oxnard, California.
         Generally, profit and loss are allocated to the partners in accordance
         with their ownership interests. In addition to its equity earnings, the
         Company is entitled to management, redevelopment and development fees
         from the joint venture and incentive payments based on the financial
         success of the joint venture.


                                                                     (Continued)

                                     F-12


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


         In connection with its formation, the AEW joint venture assumed two
         mortgage loans the Company previously had outstanding on the Casa Mango
         and Riverfront properties of $7,300 and $20,000, respectively. The
         loans bear interest at a fixed rate of 7.4% and mature in 2009.

         The Company holds limited partnership interests in 10 partnerships
         which collectively own 4 multifamily properties, comprised of 887 units
         and 3 retail properties comprised of 236,000 square feet of leaseable
         space (Down REIT entities). These investments were made under
         arrangements whereby EMC became the general partner and the other
         limited partners were granted rights of redemption for their interests.
         Such partners can request to be redeemed and the Company can elect to
         redeem their rights for cash or by issuing shares of its common stock.
         Conversion values will be based on the market value of the Company's
         common stock at the time of redemption multiplied by the number of
         shares stipulated under the above arrangements.


                                                                     (Continued)

                                     F-13


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


         Investments which are accounted for under the equity method consist of
         the following as of December 31, 2000 and 1999:



         (1) The negative balances result from excess distributions and
         allocations over investment cost basis. The Company can receive
         profits and losses different from its partnership interest.

                                                                     (Continued)

                                     F-14


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

   The combined summarized financial information of investments which are
   accounted for under the equity method are as follows:






                                     F-15                           (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

(6) Notes Receivable from Investees and Other Related Parties

   Notes receivable from joint venture investees and other related party
   receivables consist of the following as of December 31, 2000 and 1999:



The Company's officers and directors do not have a substantial economic interest
in these joint venture investees.

Other related party receivables consist primarily of accrued interest income on
related party notes receivable from investees and other related parties and
loans to officers, advances and accrued management fees from joint venture
partnerships, and unreimbursed expenses due from EMC.


                                     F-16                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


(7)  Notes and Other Receivables

     Notes and other receivables consist of the following as of
     December 31, 2000 and 1999:



(8)  Related Party Transactions

     The Company provides some of its fee-based asset management and disposition
     services as well as third-party property management and leasing services
     through Essex Management Corporation (EMC). The Company owns 100% of EMC's
     19,000 shares of nonvoting preferred stock. Executives of the Company own
     100% of EMC's 1,000 shares of common stock. All general and administrative
     expenses of the Company and EMC are initially borne by the Company, with a
     portion subsequently allocated to EMC based on a business unit allocation
     methodology, formalized and approved by management and the Board of
     Directors. Expenses allocated to EMC for the years ended December 31, 2000,
     1999 and 1998 totaled $1,247, $545 and $545, respectively, and are
     reflected as a reduction in general and administrative expenses in the
     accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

     Included in rental revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of
     operations are rents earned from space leased to Marcus & Millichap Company
     (M&M) including operating expense reimbursements of $0, $851 and $833 for
     the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
     Chairman of M&M is the Chairman of the Company. The commercial property
     which M&M occupied was sold in September 1999 to an entity controlled by a
     member of the Company's Board of Directors, following approval of the
     independent members of the Board of Directors.


                                     F-17                           (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

         During the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company
         paid brokerage commissions totaling $289, $105 and $0 to M&M on the
         purchase and sales of real estate. The commissions are either
         capitalized as a cost of acquisition or are reflected as a reduction of
         the gain on sales of real estate in the accompanying consolidated
         statements of operations. EMC is entitled to receive a percentage of
         M&M brokerage commissions on certain transactions in which the Company
         is a party.

         Interest and other income include interest income of $1,863, $705 and
         $1,027 for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
         respectively, which was earned principally on the notes receivable from
         related party partnerships in which the Company owns an ownership
         interest (Joint Ventures). Interest and other income also include
         management fee income and investment income earned by the Company from
         its Joint Ventures in which it has an ownership interest of $1,955,
         $561 and $623 for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
         respectively.


                                     F-18                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

(9)  Mortgage Notes Payable

   Mortgage notes payable consist of the following as of December 31, 2000 and
   1999:



                                     F-19                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

   The aggregate scheduled maturities of mortgage notes payable are as follows:




         In October 1997, the Company entered into four forward treasury
         contracts for an aggregate notional amount of $60,000, locking the 10-
         year treasury rate at between 6.15% and 6.26%. These contracts were
         entered into to limit the interest rate exposure on identified future
         debt financing requirements relating to real estate under development
         and the refinancing of a $18,101 fixed rate loan. These contracts were
         settled by June 2000. During 2000, the four contracts were sold,
         resulting in a net realized gain of $1,384, which is being amortized
         over the related debt.

         During the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company
         refinanced various mortgages and incurred a loss on the early
         extinguishment of debt of $119, $214 and $4,718 related to the write-
         off of the unamortized mortgage loan fees and prepayment penalties.

    (10) Lines of Credit

         The Company has two outstanding unsecured lines of credit for an
         aggregate amount $150,000. The first line, in the amount of $120,000,
         matures in May 2002, with an option to extend it for one year
         thereafter. Outstanding balances under this line of credit bear
         interest at a rate which uses a tiered rate structure tied to the
         Company corporate ratings, if any, and leverage rating, which has been
         priced at LIBOR + 1.15% during 2000 and 1999. As of December 31, 2000
         and 1999, the interest rate was approximately 7.9% and 7.0%,
         respectively. As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company had $86,469
         and $10,500 outstanding on this line of credit, respectively. A second
         line of credit in the amount of $30,000 matures in September 2001, with
         an option to extend for one year thereafter. Outstanding balances, if
         any, on this second line bear interest based on a tiered, rate
         structure currently at LIBOR plus 1.175%. As of December 31, 2000 and
         1999, the Company had $7,000 and $0 outstanding on this line of credit,
         respectively. The Company had no outstanding letters of credit as of
         December 31, 2000. As of December 31, 2000, the 30-day LIBOR rate was
         approximately 6.7%.

         The credit agreements contain debt covenants related to limitations on
         indebtedness and liabilities, maintenance of minimum levels of
         consolidated earnings before depreciation, interest and amortization
         and maintenance of minimum tangible net worth.

    (11) Leasing Activity

         Rental revenues of the Company include revenues received from its
         wholly and majority-owned apartment properties, which are rented under
         short-term leases (generally, lease terms of 3 to 12 months). Due to
         the short-term nature of the leases, future minimum rental activity is
         not disclosed by the Company.

                                     F-20                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

    (12) Fair Value of Financial Instruments

         Management believes that the carrying amounts of mortgage notes
         payable, lines of credit, notes and other related party receivables
         approximate fair value as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, because
         interest rates, yields and other terms for these instruments are
         consistent with yields currently available to the Company for similar
         instruments. Management believes that the carrying amounts of cash and
         cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts payable, other liabilities
         and dividends payable approximate fair value as of December 31, 2000
         and 1999 due to the short-term maturity of these instruments.

    (13) Stock Option Plans

         The Essex Property Trust, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan provides
         incentives to attract and retain officers, directors and key employees.
         The Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grants of options to purchase
         a specified number of shares of common stock or grants of restricted
         shares of common stock. Under the Stock Incentive Plan, the total
         number of shares available for grant is approximately 1,375,400. The
         Board of Directors (the Board) may adjust the aggregate number and type
         of shares reserved for issuance. Participants in the Stock Incentive
         Plans are selected by the Stock Incentive Plan Committee of the Board,
         which is comprised of independent directors. The Compensation Committee
         is authorized to establish the exercise price; however, the exercise
         price cannot be less than 100% of the fair market value of the common
         stock on the grant date. The Company's options have a life of ten
         years. Option grants fully vest between one year and five years after
         the grant date.

         In connection with the Company's 1994 initial public offering, the
         Company provided a one-time grant of options to M&M to purchase 220,000
         shares of common stock at the initial public offering price of $19.50
         per share pursuant to an agreement whereby Marcus & Millichap Real
         Estate Investment Brokerage Company, a subsidiary of M&M, will provide
         real estate transaction, trend and other information to the Company for
         a period of ten years.

         The Company has also reserved 406,500 shares of common stock in
         connection with the Essex Property Trust, Inc. 1994 Employee Stock
         Purchase Plan. There was no activity in this plan during 2000, 1999 and
         1998.

         The Company applies APB Opinion 25 and related interpretations in
         accounting for its stock-based compensation plans. Under this opinion,
         no compensation cost has been recognized for its plans. Had
         compensation cost for the Company's plans been determined based on the
         fair value at the grant dates consistent with the method of FASB
         Statement 123, the Company's net income for the years ended December
         31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 would have been reduced to the pro forma
         amounts indicated below:



         For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the effect of
         determining compensation cost consistent with FASB Statement 123 on
         basic and diluted earnings per share was not material.


                                     F-21                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

         The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant
         using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
         weighted-average assumptions used for grants: risk-free interest rates
         ranging from 5.67% to 6.72% in 2000, from 5.14% to 6.39% in 1999, and
         from 4.19% to 5.77% in 1998; expected lives of 6 years for 2000, 7
         years for 1999 and 4 years for 1998; volatility of 19.26% for 2000,
         21.41% for 1999 and 18.79% for 1998; and dividend yield of 4.3% for
         2000, 6.6% for 1999 and 6.0% for 1998.

         A summary of the status of the Company's option plans as of December
         31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 and changes during the years ended on those
         dates is presented below:



                                     F-22                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


   The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding as
   of December 31, 2000:




         Through December 31, 2000, the Company has granted 42,586 stock units
         under the Company's Phantom Stock Unit Agreement to two of the
         Company's executives. The units vest in installments in accordance with
         the vesting schedule set forth in the Phantom Stock Unit Agreement such
         that the units will be fully vested five years from the date of
         issuance. At that time, the Company expects to issue to the executives
         the number of shares of common stock equal to the number of units
         vested, or at the Company's option, an equivalent amount in cash.
         Dividends are paid by the Company on the vested and unvested portion of
         shares. For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
         compensation cost was $262, $184 and $20, respectively, related to this
         plan.

    (14) Shareholder Rights Plan

         On November 12, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a
         Stockholder Rights Plan. A dividend of one right (a Right) per share of
         common stock was distributed to stockholders of record on November 21,
         1998. Each Right, expiring November 11, 2008, represents a right to buy
         from the Company 1/100th of a share of Series A junior participating
         preferred stock at a price of $99.13 per Right.

         Generally the Rights will not be exercisable unless a person or group
         acquires 15% or more, or announces an offer that could result in
         acquiring 15% or more, of the Company's common stock unless such person
         is or becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the Company's
         outstanding common stock and had a contractual right or the approval of
         the Company's Board of Directors, provided that such percentage shall
         not be greater than 19.9%. Following an acquisition of 15% or more of
         the Company's common stock, each Right holder, except the 15% or more
         shareholder, has the right to receive, upon exercise, shares of common
         stock valued at twice the then applicable exercise price of the Right,
         unless the 15% or more shareholder has offered to acquire all of the
         outstanding shares of the Company under terms that a majority of the
         independent directors of the Company have determined to be fair and in
         the best interest of the Company and its shareholders.


                                     F-23                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


         Similarly, unless certain conditions are met, if the Company engages in
         a merger or other business combination following a stock acquisition
         where it does not survive or survives with a change or exchange of its
         common stock or if 50% or more of its assets, earning power or cash
         flow is sold or transferred, the Rights will become exercisable for
         shares of the acquiror's stock having a value of twice the exercise
         price.

         Generally, Rights may be redeemed for $.01 each (in cash, common stock
         or other consideration the Company deems appropriate) until the tenth
         day following a public announcement that a 15% or greater position has
         been acquired of the Company's stock.

    (15) Segment Information

         In accordance with FASB No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an
         Enterprise and Related Information, the Company defines its reportable
         operating segments as the three geographical regions in which its
         multifamily residential properties are located: Northern California,
         Southern California, and the Pacific Northwest.

         Nonsegment revenues and net operating income included in the following
         schedule consist of revenue generated from the two commercial
         properties. Also excluded from segment revenues is interest and other
         corporate income. Other nonsegment assets include investments, real
         estate under development, cash, notes receivables, other assets and
         deferred charges.

         The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
         in note 1. The Company evaluates performance based upon net operating
         income from the combined properties in each segment.


                                     F-24                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

         The revenues, net operating income, and assets for each of the
         reportable operating segments are summarized as follows for the years
         ended and as of December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998:




                                     F-25                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

(16) Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

   The following is a summary of quarterly results of operations for 2000 and
   1999:




                                     F-26                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


    (17) 401(k) Plan

         The Company has a 401(k) pension plan (the Plan) for all full-time
         employees who have completed one year of service. Employees may
         contribute up to 23% of their compensation, limited by the maximum
         allowed under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company
         matches the employee contributions for nonhighly compensated personnel,
         up to 50% of their compensation to a maximum of $.5 (per individual)
         per year. Company contributions to the Plan were approximately $98, $58
         and $46 for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

    (18) Commitments and Contingencies

         The Company had no outstanding letters of credit relating to financing
         and development transactions as of December 31, 2000.

         In conjunction with an acquisition of a property by the Company in
         2000, the Company has guaranteed on behalf of the seller $13,260 on a
         $44,200 loan secured by another property owned by the seller (a 413-
         unit apartment complex in Herndon, Virginia). The guarantee expires no
         later than February 2002.

         The Company is developing five multifamily residential projects, which
         are planned to have an aggregate of approximately 1,349 multifamily
         units. The Company expects that such projects will be completed during
         the next two years. In connection with these projects, the Company has
         directly, or in some cases through its joint venture partners, entered
         into contractual construction related commitments with unrelated third
         parties. As of December 31, 2000, the Company is committed to fund
         approximately $108,600 relating to these projects.

         Investments in real property create a potential for environmental
         liabilities on the part of the owner of such real property. The Company
         carries no express insurance coverage for this type of environmental
         risk. The Company has conducted environmental studies which revealed
         the presence of groundwater contamination at certain properties; such
         contamination at certain of these properties was reported to have
         migrated on-site from adjacent industrial manufacturing operations. The
         former industrial users of the properties were identified as the source
         of contamination. The environmental studies noted that certain
         properties are located adjacent to and possibly down gradient from
         sites with known groundwater contamination, the lateral limits of which
         may extend onto such properties. The environmental studies also noted
         that at certain of these properties, contamination existed because of
         the presence of underground fuel storage tanks, which have been
         removed. Based on the information contained in the environmental
         studies, the Company believes that the costs, if any, it might bear as
         a result of environmental contamination or other conditions at these
         properties would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
         financial position, results of operations, or liquidity.

         The Company is involved in various lawsuits arising out of the ordinary
         course of business and certain other legal matters. In the opinion of
         management, the resolution of these matters will not have a material
         adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of
         operations or liquidity.


                                     F-27                            (Continued)


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                       December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


         In September 1999, the Company formed a program in which directors and
         management of the Company can participate indirectly in an investment
         in the Company's common stock. The participants have entered into a
         swap agreement with a securities broker whereby the securities broker
         has acquired, in open market transactions, 223,475 shares of the
         Company's common stock. The agreement terminates in five years at which
         time the settlement amount is determined by comparing the original
         purchase price of the stock plus interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.5%
         to the termination date market value of the shares and all dividends
         received during the investment period. In certain circumstances, the
         participants may be required to provide collateral to the securities
         broker. The Company has guaranteed performance of the participants with
         respect to any obligations relating to the swap agreement. If the
         program was terminated effective December 31, 2000, there would have
         been no collateral requirement and no obligation under the participant
         performance guarantee.

                                     F-28


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

                               December 31, 2000
                            (Dollars in thousands)







                                                                     (Continued)

                                      F-29


                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation

                               December 31, 2000
                            (Dollars in thousands)





(1)  The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes is $884,336,807.
(2)  Phase I was built in 1969 and Phase II was built in 1977.
(3)  The Company has a leasehold interest in this land and receives a land lease
     payment over a 34-year-term.
(4)  The land is leased pursuant to a ground lease expiring 2027.
(5)  A portion of land is leased pursuant to a ground lease expiring in 2028.
(6)  Total rentable square footage of 17,404
(7)  The Company's interest in the land is subordinate to a loan issued to the
     purchaser of the buildings and improvements, and therefore the carrying
     amount was written off in connection with the sale.







                                      F-30


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX



















________________
(1)  Incorporated by reference to the identically numbered exhibit to the
     Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.

(2)  Incorporated by reference to the identically numbered exhibit to the
     Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998.

                                                                        Page 6

