Item
1A. Risk Factors.



The
following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as
discussed in Item 1. “Business”. These risk factors may be important to
understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The
following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” (MD&A), and the consolidated financial statements and related
notes in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this
Form 10-K Report.



Our
businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our
future results to be different – sometimes materially different – than we
presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our
businesses encounter can be found in the MD&A section and in the business
descriptions in Item 1. “Business” of this Form 10-K Report. Below, we describe
certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material
future developments as well as our competitors’ reactions to those developments
will affect our future results.



Our
global growth is subject to economic and political risks.



We
conduct our operations in virtually every part of the world. In 2009,
approximately 54% of our revenues was attributable to activities outside the
United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition.
They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation,
recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be
disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our
activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged
using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such
attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our
ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as
a result of current market conditions.



We
are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that may change in
significant ways.



Our
businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and
state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies.





(14)





We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance
risks.



We are
subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks. We and our
subsidiaries, our businesses and the industries in which we operate are at times
being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement
actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and
damages. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a sizable number
of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and
state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a
40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in
Item 1. “Business” of this Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain
other legal proceedings described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” of this Form
10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management
and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means
that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal
proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted
with certainty, will arise from time to time.





(15)



The
success of our business depends on achieving our objectives for strategic
acquisitions and dispositions.



With
respect to acquisitions and mergers, we may not be able to identify suitable
candidates at terms acceptable to us or may not achieve expected returns and
other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration challenges,
such as personnel and technology. We will continue to evaluate the potential
disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our
objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter
difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms
in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic
objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms
that are less than we had anticipated. Even upon reaching an agreement with a
buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject
to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which
may prevent us from completing the transaction. For example, we recently entered
into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU
business to a newly formed entity, pursuant to which we will receive cash and
will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. The transaction is subject
to receipt of various regulatory approvals. In addition, there is a risk that we
may sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds our expectations, in
which case our decision would have potentially sacrificed enterprise
value.



Sustained
increases in costs of pension and healthcare benefits may reduce our
profitability.







(16)



Conditions
in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability and cost of GE
Capital’s funding.





Difficult
conditions in the financial services markets have materially and adversely
affected the business and results of operations of GE Capital and these
conditions may persist.



Declines
in the real estate markets, increased payment defaults and foreclosures and
sustained levels of high unemployment have resulted in significant write-downs
of asset values by financial institutions, including GE Capital. If these
conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
recover fully the value of certain assets, including goodwill, intangibles and
tax assets. In addition, although wehave established
allowances for losses in GE Capital’s portfolio of financing receivables that we
believe are adequate, further deterioration in the economy and in default and
recovery rates could require us to increase these allowances and write-offs,
which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse
effect on ourbusiness,financial position and
results of operations. To reduce GE’s exposure to volatile conditions in the
financial markets and rebalance the relative size of its financial and
industrial businesses, we have decided to reduce the size of GE Capital, as
measured by its ending net investment. There can be no assurance that we will be
able to timely execute on our reduction targets and failure to do so would
result in greater exposure to financial markets than contemplated under our
strategic funding plan or may result in the need for us to make additional
contributions to GE Capital.



The
soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect GE
Capital.



GE
Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and
routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services
industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and
other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to
credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition,
GE Capital’s credit risk may be increased when the collateral held cannot be
realized upon sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full
amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has
exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating
to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties
(as described in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report),
which are designed to limit credit and liquidity risk. There can be no
assurance, however, that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of
financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE Capital’s
business, financial position and results of operations.







(17)





The
real estate markets in which GE Capital participates are highly
uncertain.



GE
Capital participates in the commercial real estate market in two ways: it
provides financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various
types of properties, and it also acquires equity positions in various types of
properties. The profitability of real estate investments is largely dependent
upon the economic conditions in specific geographic markets in which the
properties are located and the perceived value of those markets at the time of
sale. The level of transactions for real estate assets may vary significantly
from one year to the next. Continued high levels of unemployment, slowdown in
business activity, excess inventory capacity and limited availability of credit
are expected to continue to adversely affect the value of real estate assets and
collateral to real estate loans GE Capital holds. Under current market and
credit conditions, there can be no assurance as to the level of sales GE Capital
will complete or the net sales proceeds it will realize. Also, occupancy rates
and market rentals may worsen, which may result in impairments to the carrying
value of equity investments or increases in the allowance for loan losses on
commercial real estate loans.



GE
Capital is also a residential mortgage lender in certain geographic markets
outside the United States that have been, and may continue to be, adversely
affected by declines in real estate values and home sale volumes, job losses,
consumer bankruptcies and other factors that may negatively impact the credit
performance of our mortgage loans. Our allowance for loan losses on these
mortgage loans is based on our analysis of current and historical delinquency
and loan performance, as well as other management assumptions that may be
inaccurate predictions of credit performance in this environment. There can be
no assurance that, in this environment, credit performance will not be
materially worse than anticipated and, as a result, materially and adversely
affect GE Capital’s business, financial position and results of
operations.



Failure
to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and
related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital
markets.



The
major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based
on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency
with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. In March 2009,
Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgraded GE and GE Capital’s long-term rating
by one notch from “AAA” to “AA+” and, at the same time, revised the outlook from
negative to stable. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) downgraded
GE and GE Capital’s long-term rating by two notches from “Aaa” to “Aa2” with a
stable outlook. The short-term ratings of “A-1+/P-1” were affirmed by both
rating agencies at the same time with respect to GE, GE Capital Services and GE
Capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit
ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and
related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
Various debt instruments, guarantees and covenants would require posting
additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, which,
depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a material adverse effect
on our liquidity and capital position.





(18)



Current
conditions in the global economy and the major industries we serve also may
materially and adversely affect the business and results of operations of our
non-financial businesses.





We
are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product
innovations for continued revenue growth.



The
markets in which we operate are subject to technological change. Our long-term
operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop,
introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products,
to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet
customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process,
including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of
technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new
products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer
demands.



Our
Intellectual property portfolio may not prevent competitors from independently
developing products and services similar to or duplicative to ours, and we may
not be able to obtain necessary licenses.



Our
patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from
independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of
ours, and there can be no assurance that the resources invested by us to protect
our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual property
portfolio will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our
technology. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic
enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities.
Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be
expensive and time-consuming. If GE is found to infringe any third-party rights,
we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from
offering some of our products and services. Also, there can be no assurances
that we will be able to obtain or re-new from third parties the licenses we need
in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on
reasonable terms.



Significant
raw material shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production
disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our
operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our
products.



Our
reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and service providers
and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems
used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of
these materials, parts, components, systems and services. A disruption in
deliveries from our third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers or service
providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, or
decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse
effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our
operating costs. Quality issues experienced by third-party providers can also
adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and
result in liability and reputational harm.





(19)



There
are risks inherent in owning our common stock.



The
market price and volume of our common stock have been, and may continue to be,
subject to significant fluctuations. These may arise from general stock market
conditions, the impact of the risk factors described above on our financial
condition and results of operations, a change in sentiment in the market
regarding us or our business prospects or from other factors. Changes in the
amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect
the value of our common stock.





