
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934
 
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998
 
[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-12933
 
                            ------------------------
 
                            LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (510) 659-0200
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                    COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $0.001 PER SHARE
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]
 
     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant, based on the average of the closing price of the Common Stock on
September 1, 1998, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market, was approximately
$229,650,000. Common Stock held by each officer and director and by each person
who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded from this
computation in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This
determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination
for other purposes.
 
     As of September 1, 1998, the Registrant had outstanding 38,124,277 shares
of Common Stock.
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Parts of Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on November 5, 1998 are incorporated by reference into
Parts III of this Form 10-K Report. (The Compensation Committee Report and the
stock performance graph of the Registrant's Proxy Statement are expressly not
incorporated by reference herein.)
 
                                     PART I
 
     The index to Exhibits is located on pages 56 to 58.
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
     With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this
discussion are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of
the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and are subject to the Safe Harbor
provisions created by that statute. Such forward-looking statements include, but
are not limited to, statements that relate to the Company's future revenue,
product development, demand, acceptance and market share, competitiveness,
royalty income, gross margins, levels of research and development ("R&D") and
operating expenses, management's plans and objectives for current and future
operations of the Company, the effects of the Company's acquisition of OnTrak
Systems, Inc. ("OnTrak"), the effects of the Company's ongoing reorganization
and consolidation of operations and facilities, the ability of the Company to
complete contemplated reorganizations or consolidations on time or within
anticipated costs, and the sufficiency of financial resources to support future
operations and capital expenditures. Such statements are based on current
expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition,
significance, value and effect, including those discussed below and under the
heading Risk Factors within the section of this report entitled "Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and other documents the Company files from time to time with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's last filed
Registration Statement on Form S-3, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and the
Company's current reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in
condition, significance, value and effect could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and of information currently
and reasonably known. The Company undertakes no obligation to release the
results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements which may be made
to reflect events or circumstances which occur after the date hereof or to
reflect the occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events.
 
THE COMPANY
 
     Lam Research Corporation ("Lam" or the "Company") designs, manufactures,
markets and services semiconductor processing equipment used in the fabrication
of integrated circuits. Lam is recognized by its customers worldwide as a
leading supplier of semiconductor production equipment in the etch market. The
Company's products are used to selectively etch away portions of various films
("etch") to create an integrated circuit. Etch processes, which are repeated
numerous times during the fabrication cycle, are required to manufacture every
type of semiconductor device produced today. With the acquisition of OnTrak,
completed in August 1997, Lam has added both Chemical Mechanical Planarization
("CMP") and CMP cleaning product lines. CMP is the planarization technology of
choice for manufacturing sub-0.35 micron integrated circuits with multiple metal
layers.
 
     Lam sells a broad range of plasma dry etch products to address specific
applications, including the Advanced Capability Rainbow(TM) ("Rainbow") and
Transformer Coupled Plasma(TM) ("TCP(TM)") product lines. Lam's TCP etchers
utilize a high density plasma process to etch device features down to 0.18
micron and below. All current generation TCP and Rainbow modules are available
on Lam's Alliance(TM) ("Alliance")
 

 
multi-chamber cluster platform. Through OnTrak, the Company markets both the
Double-Sided Scrubbing ("DSS") DSS-200(R) and Synergy(TM) product lines of
cleaners, which are used to remove residual slurries and other contaminants from
wafer surfaces, both after CMP polishing and before and after essential
semiconductor process steps. Lam's Teres(TM) CMP polishing system leverages
OnTrak's CMP cleaning expertise to provide the Company's first fully integrated
polishing and cleaning solutions.
 
     On August 5, 1997, Lam acquired OnTrak, a leading manufacturer of CMP
cleaning equipment. As part of the transaction, James W. Bagley, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of OnTrak, became Chief Executive Officer of Lam. In
September 1998, Mr. Bagley was promoted to Chairman of the Board of Lam.
 
RESTRUCTURING
 
     During fiscal 1998, the Company announced restructurings of its operations
to focus more on its core etch and CMP product groups, and to exit its Flat
Panel Display ("FPD") and Chemical Vapor Deposition ("CVD") operations. As a
result of the restructurings, the Company reduced its global workforce during
fiscal 1998 by approximately 28% and downsized and consolidated its
manufacturing operations. The Company recorded a total restructuring charge of
$148.9 million related to severance and benefits, facilities and fixed assets,
excess and obsolete inventory and other exit costs.
 
     Prior to the restructurings, Lam offered the DSM(TM) 9800 low pressure CVD
system, a fully automated batch thermal CVD system for pre-metal dielectric
applications, and the DSM(TM) 9900 high density plasma ("HDP") CVD system, for
advanced inter-metal dielectric applications. Lam entered the FPD market in
calendar 1996 with the introduction of the Continuum(TM) etch system based on
TCP technology.
 
PRODUCTS
 
     Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process steps
that result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits.
The six basic steps of semiconductor wafer fabrication include deposition, CMP
and cleaning, photolithography, etching, assembly and testing. Lam's products
are used in the etch and CMP processes of semiconductor device manufacturing.
All of the Company's etch products are available as stand-alone systems or in
conjunction with the Alliance multi-chamber cluster platform. Lam incorporates
its Envision(TM) interactive control system software into each of its systems
for advanced production management.
 
  Etch Products
 
     The etch process defines line-widths and other micro features on integrated
circuits. Plasma etching was developed to meet the demand for device geometries
with line-widths smaller than three microns. Plasma etching uses ionized gases
that react with exposed portions of the wafer to produce finely delineated
features and patterns of the integrated circuit. Today, manufacturers of
advanced integrated circuits require etch systems that can produce line-widths
as small as or smaller than 0.25 micron (approximately 1/300 the thickness of a
human hair), and in the future are expected to require systems capable of
producing devices with feature sizes smaller than 0.1 micron. In addition,
advanced manufacturing facilities are producing integrated circuits on silicon
wafers of 200 mm (8 inches) in diameter, and a transition in wafer diameters is
expected to increase standard diameters to 300 mm (12 inches). To accommodate
these decreasing line-widths and anticipated increasing wafer diameters,
manufacturers will increasingly require more precise control over the etching
process. Lam's family of etch systems incorporates plasma technologies designed
to meet both current and future device requirements.
 
     Rainbow. The first Rainbow etch single chamber system was introduced in
1987. The Rainbow series of products addresses processes that utilize wafer
sizes up to 200 mm and feature line-width sizes as small as 0.18 micron in some
cases. The Rainbow product line, also available on the Alliance platform,
includes the Rainbow 4400, 4500, 4600 and 4700 series for etching polysilicon,
oxide, aluminum and tungsten films, respectively. These systems are designed to
accommodate evolving customer needs through hardware and process enhancements.
The 4520XLE(TM) offers an extended process window and capabilities for sub-0.25
 

 
micron geometries. The 4520XLE is well suited for next generation etch regimes
associated with copper damascene processes.
 
     The Rainbow product line incorporates a number of unique features that
offer semiconductor manufacturers improved etch capability, reliability and
performance. These features include a patented wafer handling system, a
proprietary source for generating stable plasma, and an overall product design
for which Lam has received industry awards for quality and reliability. These
and other Rainbow product features enable the semiconductor manufacturer to
reduce wafer particle contamination to a level that exceeds current industry
standards, and to improve etch selectivity and uniformity while maintaining
profile control and process flexibility.
 
     TCP: Lam's TCP product line of high-density, low-pressure etch systems,
which was introduced in late 1992, incorporates the Company's patented
Transformer Coupled Plasma source technology for etching 0.25 micron and smaller
geometries. The Company currently offers the TCP 9600SEII and TCP 9600PTX for
metal etch applications, the TCP 9400SEII and TCP 9400PTX for polysilicon,
polycide and shallow trench isolation etch applications and the TCP 9100 and TCP
9100PTX for oxide etch applications. These systems are currently used to produce
a broad range of advanced logic and memory devices, and the Company believes
these products offer technological capability to enable manufacturers to produce
the next generation of advanced devices. The TCP-series etch systems operate at
lower pressures for improved pattern transfer control and higher plasma density
for higher etch rates with independent power control to the lower electrode,
which improves etch results across a wider process window. Lam's TCP systems are
designed to offer customers a reliable, lower cost of ownership solution for
their advanced processing needs. The TCP systems are available as a stand-alone,
single wafer configuration or in conjunction with the Alliance multi-chamber
cluster platform.
 
  Chemical Mechanical Planarization Products
 
  CMP Cleaning
 
     DSS-200: The DSS-200 cleaning systems offered through Lam's OnTrak
subsidiary have a number of features that distinguish them from alternative
cleaning methods. A double-sided design permits simultaneous scrubbing of both
sides of the wafer, while limiting wafer handling contact which can contaminate
the backside of the wafer. For selected applications, its brush cleaning systems
provide significant advantages over traditional batch wet bench cleaning
systems, including improved cleaning efficiency, reduced chemical usage, a
smaller footprint, lower operating costs, and greater process flexibility. In
addition, the single wafer design minimizes the risks inherent in processing
wafers in batches.
 
     Synergy: The Synergy products combine the best of OnTrak's DSS technology
with chemical cleaning. Synergy leverages OnTrak's proprietary Chemical
Mechanical Cleaning ("CMC"(TM)) technology to perform mechanical cleaning and
chemical cleaning simultaneously in a single-step process. This combination
offers maximum cleaning performance while maintaining high throughput. The
applications for the Synergy family include oxide, shallow trench solution,
tungsten, and copper cleaning. In response to the worldwide demand for a
dry-wafer-in, dry-wafer-out CMP solution, OnTrak provides the Synergy Integra
which incorporates advanced cleaning technology with a pre-designed platform
that enables the integration of polisher and cleaner. The Synergy Integra
provides a unique solution to the challenge of CMP process integration.
Integrated system packages, the result of partnerships between OnTrak and key
polishing vendors, provide a viable alternative to conventional stand-alone CMP
processing.
 
  CMP Polisher
 
     Teres: Lam developed the Teres CMP integrated polishing and cleaning system
based on a technological approach different from that of conventional polishers
which utilize a rotating table and rotating polishing heads. Lam has developed a
proprietary linear polishing method and has designed its polishing system to be
installed in a Class 1 cleanroom environment to planarize patterned films on
wafers, and to polish wafers at
 

 
higher rates and achieve the uniformity and planarity that is necessary to
manufacture advanced semiconductor devices.
 
  Deposition Products
 
     During fiscal 1998, the Company restructured its operations to focus more
on its core etch and CMP product groups and to exit its CVD and FPD operations.
CVD involves the deposition of thin films on a silicon wafer by exposing the
wafer to various reactant gases containing the materials to be deposited.
Insulating films are deposited to form dielectric layers on integrated circuits.
 
     DSM 9800: The DSM 9800 utilized a patented integrated process design for
flowing gases over the wafer, forming films that are highly uniform and planar
at a lower thermal budget.
 
     DSM 9900: Lam introduced its first DSM 9900 HDP CVD system in November
1995. The DSM 9900 was used in conjunction with Lam's Alliance platform.
 
  Flat Panel Display Products
 
     The Company entered the FPD market in calendar 1996 with the introduction
of its Continuum etch system, based upon the TCP technology also used in
semiconductor fabrication. During fiscal 1998, the Company restructured its
operations, deciding to exit its CVD and FPD operations.
 
     "Lam", "Lam Research", "Transformer Coupled Plasma", "TCP", "Teres", "DSM",
"Rainbow", "Advanced Capability Rainbow", "Continuum", "Alliance" and "Envision"
are trademarks of Lam Research Corporation. "AutoEtch" is a registered
trademarks of Lam Research Corporation.
 
     "OnTrak" and "Synergy" are trademarks and "DSS-200" is a registered
trademark of OnTrak Systems, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Lam.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The market for semiconductor capital equipment is characterized by rapid
technological change. The Company believes that continued and timely development
of new products and enhancements to existing products are necessary for it to
maintain its competitive position. Accordingly, the Company devotes a
significant portion of its personnel and financial resources to R&D programs and
seeks to maintain close relationships with its customers to be responsive to
their product needs.
 
     The Company's net R&D expenses during fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, were
approximately $206.5 million, $192.3 million, and $186.9 million, respectively,
and represented 19.6%, 17.9% and 14.1% of total revenue, respectively. Such R&D
expenses were net of third party funding from industry consortiums and
customers, representing approximately $1.2 million and $3.4 million, during
fiscal 1997 and 1996, respectively. Such expenditures were used for the
development of new products and film applications, and the continued enhancement
of existing products. Current projects include the development of advanced etch
and CMP products. As of fiscal 1998, the R&D projects funded, in whole or in
part, by the United States Display Consortium ("USDC") were in large part
complete.
 
     In June 1994, the Company received a multi-year contract from the USDC for
the development of a FPD etch system, based on the Company's Transformer Coupled
Plasma technology. The Continuum etch system was designed for use in the
manufacture of large scale FPDs for several new technologies, including active
matrix liquid crystal displays and field emission displays. Included in the $1.2
million and $3.4 million of third party funded R&D for fiscal 1997, and 1996,
was $1.2 million and $3.2 million, respectively, from the USDC.
 
     The Company expects to continue to make substantial investments in R&D. The
Company also must manage product transitions successfully, as introductions of
new products could adversely affect sales of existing products. There can be no
assurance that future technologies, processes or product developments will not
render the Company's product offerings obsolete or that the Company will be able
to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to its existing products
and processes in a timely manner which

 
satisfy customer needs or achieve market acceptance. The failure to do so could
adversely affect the Company's business. Furthermore, if the Company is not
successful in the development of advanced process equipment for manufacturers
with whom it has formed strategic alliances, its ability to sell its products to
those manufacturers would be adversely affected. In addition, in connection with
the development of the Company's new products, the Company invests in material
levels of pre-production inventory, and the failure to complete development and
commercialization of these new products in a timely manner could result in
inventory obsolescence, which could adversely affect the Company's financial
results.
 
MARKETING, SALES AND SERVICE
 
     The Company's marketing and sales efforts are focused on building long-term
relationships with its customers. These efforts are supported by a team of
product marketing managers, sales personnel, equipment engineers and process
engineers that works closely with individual customers to find solutions to
their process needs. After-sales support is an essential element of the
Company's marketing and sales program. The Company maintains an ongoing support
relationship with its customers and has an extensive network of field service
personnel in place throughout the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific.
In addition, the Company maintains an in-house group of highly skilled
application engineers to respond to customer process needs worldwide, when a
higher level of technical expertise is required. The Company believes that its
extensive support programs and close working relationships with its customers
improves its competitiveness.
 
     The Company has more than 40 sales and support centers located throughout
the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific, through which direct sales
personnel and independent sales representatives sell and service the Company's
products. The Company offers its customers a comprehensive warranty package on
all released products.
 
     In Japan, the Company has licensing arrangements with Sumitomo Metal
Industries, Ltd. ("Sumitomo") and Tokyo Electron Limited ("TEL"). Sumitomo
manufactures, sells and distributes certain of the Company's Rainbow products to
specific customers in Japan under an exclusive license agreement with Lam. TEL
has a non-exclusive license to sell products incorporating certain features of
Lam's proprietary etch technology. In June 1991, the Company opened the Lam
Technology Center near Tokyo, Japan, to establish a presence in Japan and to
assist Sumitomo in serving Japanese customers. In May 1993, Lam completed its
advanced development and demonstration laboratory in Sagamihara, Japan, which
allows customers to evaluate the Company's recently introduced advanced
technology products.
 
     Export sales accounted for approximately 39%, 42% and 41% of net sales in
fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Export sales consist of sales from the
Company's U.S. operating subsidiary to nonaffiliated customers in non U.S.
countries. Prior to fiscal 1998, the Company expanded its international
operations, including expansion of its Japan operations, the opening of a
manufacturing facility in Korea in July 1995, and the relocation and expansion
of the Taiwan facility to a technology development center. In fiscal 1998, the
Company commenced a worldwide downsizing of its operations, including
manufacturing facilities in Asia. A significant portion of the Company's sales
and operations will be subject to certain risks, including tariffs and other
barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign subsidiary and branch
operations, difficulties in managing distributors, potentially adverse tax
consequences and the possibility of difficulty in accounts receivable
collection. There can be no assurance that any of these factors will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial position, results
of operations and cash flows. Reference is made to Note C of the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 herein, for further
information concerning export sales, which information is incorporated herein by
this reference.
 
CUSTOMERS
 
     The Company's customers include most of the world's leading semiconductor
manufacturers. Revenue from Intel Corporation accounted for 12% of total revenue
for fiscal 1998. In fiscal 1997 and 1996, no individual customer accounted for
more than 10% of Lam's total revenue.
 
     The Company's business depends upon the capital expenditures of
semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated
market demand for integrated circuits and products utilizing

 
integrated circuits. The semiconductor industry has been experiencing a slowdown
resulting from depressed DRAM pricing and manufacturing over-capacity. This has
caused semiconductor manufacturers to reduce their capital equipment
investments, and in certain cases customers have either rescheduled or canceled
capital equipment purchases. Also, during fiscal 1998, the Asian regions were
faced with difficulties in their financial markets, which has also had an
adverse impact on the ability of Asian customers to purchase capital equipment.
No assurance can be given that the Company's revenue and operating results will
not be further adversely affected if downturns in the semiconductor industry and
difficulties in the Asian regions' financial markets continue.
 
BACKLOG
 
     The Company schedules production of its systems based upon order backlog
and customer commitments. Included in backlog for the Company are orders for
which written authorizations have been accepted and shipment dates have been
assigned. As of June 30, 1998 and 1997, the Company's order backlog was
approximately $130.4 million and $272.1 million, respectively. During fiscal
1998, the semiconductor market experienced a slowdown as a result of depressed
DRAM pricing, over capacity and the financial crisis in Asia. This slowdown has
caused certain semiconductor manufacturers to delay their capital equipment
purchase decisions and in certain cases to reschedule or cancel capital
equipment purchases. All orders of the Company's products are subject to
cancellation by the customer, in some cases with limited penalty. Because some
orders are received for systems to be shipped in the same quarter and because of
possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, the
Company's backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual
sales for any succeeding period.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
     The Company maintains facilities in Fremont and San Jose, California, for
the manufacture of its etch and CMP products. In fiscal 1998, the Company
discontinued its manufacturing activities in Wilmington, Massachusetts and in
CheonAn, Korea.
 
     The Company's manufacturing operations consist of assembling and testing
components and subassemblies that are then integrated into finished systems.
Once manufacturing has completed final testing of all electronic and
electromechanical subassemblies that make up one of the Company's products, the
completed system is process tested. Stringent cleanliness controls are present
throughout the manufacturing process and testing areas of these facilities to
reduce particle contamination. Much of the assembly and testing of the Company's
products is conducted in cleanroom environments where personnel are properly
attired to reduce particulate contamination. Prior to shipping a completed
system, the customer's engineers may perform acceptance tests at Lam's facility,
using the customer's own wafers. After passing the acceptance test, the system
is vacuum-bagged in a cleanroom environment and prepared for shipment.
 
     The Company is subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to
the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals
used in the manufacturing process. The Company believes that it is in general
compliance with these regulations and that it has obtained (or will obtain or is
otherwise addressing) all necessary environmental permits to conduct its
business. These permits generally relate to the disposal of hazardous wastes.
Nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could
result in fines being imposed on the Company, suspension of production,
cessation of operations or reduction in product acceptance. Such regulations
could require the Company to alter current operations or to acquire significant
equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental
regulations. Any failure by the Company to control the use, sale or transport
of, or adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances
could subject the Company to future liabilities.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of September 1, 1998, the Company had approximately 3,300 full-time
employees. None of the Company's employees are represented by a union and the
Company has never experienced a work stoppage. Management considers its employee
relations to be good.
 

 
     Each employee of the Company has signed agreements to maintain the
confidentiality of the Company's proprietary information, and most key employees
have stock or stock option arrangements with the Company that provide for the
vesting of their interests over several years.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The semiconductor manufacturing equipment industry is highly competitive.
The Company faces substantial competition throughout the world. Management
believes that to remain competitive it will require significant financial
resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and
support centers worldwide and to invest in product and process R&D. Certain of
the Company's existing and potential competitors have substantially greater
financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and
customer service and support organizations. Lam expects its competitors to
continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and
processes and to introduce new products and processes with enhanced price and
performance characteristics. If the Company's competitors enter into strategic
relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering etch or CMP
products similar to those sold by the Company, its ability to sell its products
to those manufacturers could be adversely affected. No assurance can be given
that the Company will continue to compete successfully in the United States or
worldwide.
 
     The Company faces significant competitive factors in the etch equipment
market, including etch quality, repeatability, process capability and
flexibility, and overall cost of ownership, which may be effected by factors
such as reliability, software automation, throughput, customer support, and
system price. Although Lam believes that it competes favorably with respect to
each of these factors, the Company's ability to compete successfully in this
market will depend upon its ability to introduce product enhancements and new
products on a timely basis. There can be no assurance that the Company will
continue to compete successfully in the future. In the etch equipment market,
the Company's primary competitors are Applied Materials, Inc., TEL and Hitachi
Ltd.
 
     The Teres CMP polishing system developed by the Company faces significant
competition from multiple current and future competitors. Companies currently
offering polishing systems include Applied Materials, Inc., Cybeq Systems, Ebara
Corp., Integrated Process Equipment Corp. ("IPEC"), SpeedFam Corp., Strasbaugh
and Sumitomo. IPEC currently has the largest installed base of CMP polishers and
also offers an integrated CMP polishing and cleaning system.
 
     In CMP slurry removal and cleaning applications, Lam's principal competitor
is DaiNippon Screen Manufacturing Co. Ltd. ("DaiNippon Screen"). The Company
expects that it will face increased competition from IPEC, which currently
offers a slurry removal system, and SpeedFam, as well as others as the CMP
market continues to develop. In general cleaning applications, Lam competes
against DaiNippon Screen and others.
 
FISCAL 1998 EVENTS
 
  OnTrak Merger
 
     On August 5, 1997, the stockholders of the Company approved the issuance of
Lam Common Stock under the Agreement and Plan of Merger with OnTrak ("the
Merger"). Each share of OnTrak common stock ("OnTrak Common Stock"), par value
$0.0001 per share, was exchanged for 0.83 of a share of Lam common stock ("Lam
Common Stock"), and each option and right to acquire one share of OnTrak Common
Stock was exchanged for options and rights to purchase 0.83 of a share of Lam
Common Stock. The transaction was accounted for as a pooling of interests and
was structured to qualify as a tax-free reorganization. Costs associated with
the Merger were $17.7 million. Such expenses included investment advisory fees,
legal and accounting fees, financial printing, and other Merger-related costs.
 

 
  Approval of Lam Research Corporation Stock Incentive Plan
 
     On August 5, 1997, the stockholders of the Company approved the 1997 Stock
Incentive Plan, which provided for a grant of stock options, restricted stock,
deferred stock and performance share awards to participating officers,
directors, employees, consultants and advisors of the Company and its
subsidiaries. Initially, 3,000,000 shares were reserved for issuance under the
Plan. The number of shares available for issuance under the Plan may
automatically be increased each quarter subject to certain provisions and
restrictions contained in the Plan, but shall in no event exceed 5,000,000
shares.
 
  Convertible Subordinated Notes
 
     During August 1997, Lam completed an offering of $310.0 million of
Convertible Subordinated Notes ("the Notes"). Interest on the five percent Notes
is payable on September 1 and March 1 of each year commencing March 1, 1998. The
Notes are convertible into shares of Lam Common Stock at any time prior to the
close of business on the maturity date of September 1, 2002, unless previously
redeemed, at a conversion price of $87.77 per share, subject to adjustment. The
Notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, upon at
least 20 days notice, at redemption prices starting at 102.0% of the principal
amount and at diminishing prices thereafter, plus accrued interest, except that
the Notes may not be redeemed prior to September 6, 2000, unless the closing
price of Lam Common Stock is at least 130% of the conversion price for at least
20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending within
five trading days prior to the notice of redemption. The Notes are unsecured and
subordinated in right of payment in full to all existing and future senior
indebtedness of the Company. Expenses associated with the offering of
approximately $9.0 million were deferred in other assets and are being amortized
over the term of the Notes.
 
PATENTS AND LICENSES
 
     The Company has a policy of seeking patents on inventions governing new
products and processes developed as part of its ongoing research, engineering
and manufacturing activities. Lam holds United States patents and corresponding
foreign patents covering various aspects of its products. The Company believes
that the duration of its patents generally exceeds the life cycles of the
technologies disclosed and claimed therein. Lam believes that although the
patents it holds and may obtain will be of value, they will not alone determine
the Company's success, which depends principally upon its engineering,
marketing, service and manufacturing skills. However, in the absence of patent
protection, the Company may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to imitate
its products, manufacturing techniques and processes. In addition, other
companies and inventors may receive patents that contain claims applicable or
similar to the Company's products and processes. The sale of products covered by
such patents could require licenses that may not be available on acceptable
terms, or at all.
 
     From time to time, Lam has received notices from third parties alleging
infringement of such parties' patent or other intellectual property rights by
the Company's products. In such cases, it is the policy of the Company to defend
the claims or negotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms, where
considered appropriate. However, no assurance can be given that Lam will be able
in the future to negotiate necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
or at all, or that any litigation resulting from such claims would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results.
 
     In October 1993, Varian Associates, Inc. ("Varian") brought suit against
Lam in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California,
seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's alleged
infringement of certain patents held by Varian. The Company has asserted
defenses of invalidity and unenforceability of the patents that are the subject
of the lawsuit, as well as non-infringement of such patents by the Company's
products. No trial date is currently scheduled. While litigation is subject to
inherent uncertainties and no assurance can be given that Lam will prevail in
such litigation or will obtain a license under such patents on commercially
reasonable terms, or at all, if such patents are held valid and infringed by the
Company's products, the Company believes that the Varian lawsuit will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's operating results or the Company's
financial position. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings," which is incorporated
herein by reference.
 

 
     In December 1986, the Company entered into a non-exclusive license
agreement with TEL, licensing the Company's AutoEtch(R) technology and chamber
design. This license expired in December 1991 and, in January 1992 the Company
entered into a new five year license agreement with TEL on substantially similar
terms. The second license agreement was originally set to expire in December
1996 but was renegotiated and extended to a reduced royalty rate of 1% from 5%.
Fiscal 1998 was the first full fiscal year with royalty income from TEL computed
at the reduced rate.
 
     The Company has two license agreements with Sumitomo. Under one agreement,
Lam granted Sumitomo an exclusive license for the manufacture and sale of
certain Rainbow etch systems in the Japanese market. Under the other agreement,
Sumitomo granted the Company an exclusive license for the manufacture and sale
of Sumitomo's ECR systems in North America and Europe.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
     As of September 1, 1998, the executive officers of the Company, who are
elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors, were as
follows:
 

 
     James W. Bagley became Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Lam upon
consummation of the Merger. Effective September 1, 1998, Mr. Bagley was
appointed Chairman of the Board of Lam. Mr. Bagley currently is a director of
KLA-Tencor Corporation, Teradyne, Inc., Kulicke & Soffe Industries, Inc., Micron
Technology, Inc., and SEMI/SEMATECH. From June 1996 to August 1997, Mr. Bagley
served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of OnTrak. Prior to
joining OnTrak, Mr. Bagley was employed by Applied Materials, Inc. for 15 years
in various senior management positions, most recently as Chief Operating Officer
and Vice Chairman of the Board. Mr. Bagley held various management positions at
Texas Instruments, Inc. before he joined Applied Materials, Inc.
 
     Stephen G. Newberry joined the Company in August 1997 as Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer. In July 1998, Mr. Newberry was promoted
to President of Lam. Previously, he was employed by Applied Materials, Inc. for
17 years, most recently as Group Vice President of Global Operations and
Planning. From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Newberry served as Vice President of Applied
Materials Japan and was responsible for Customer Service, Engineering and
Manufacturing. Upon his return to the United States, Mr. Newberry served in a
variety of executive management positions at Applied Materials, Inc.
 
     Mercedes Johnson joined the Company in April 1997. She was formerly Vice
President and Worldwide Operations Controller of Applied Materials, Inc., where
she also served as Senior Director and Worldwide Business Operations Controller,
Director and Senior Controller for CVD and Etch Technologies Group, Manager of
International Treasury and Division Controller of Etch Products Division. Prior
to joining Applied Materials, Inc., Ms. Johnson held senior finance and
controller positions at Nanometrics, Inc., NCR Corporation and Hewlett-Packard
Company.
 

 
     Hsui-Sheng (Way) Tu joined the Company in 1983 and has held various
positions with the Company. In August 1997, Mr. Tu was appointed President, Asia
Pacific Operations. In 1996, Mr. Tu was named President of Lam which position he
held until August 1997. In 1994, Mr. Tu was named Vice President of the Oxide
Etch Business Unit. In 1992, he was named Vice President of Asian Operations.
Before joining the Company, Mr. Tu was Process Engineering Supervisor for
Fairchild Semiconductor.
 
     David E. Bayly joined the Company in February 1998 as Vice President, North
America and Europe Sales and Field Operations. He was formerly Vice President of
Sales at Tencor Instruments, Inc. Mr. Bayly has also previously held executive
positions at Novellus Systems, Inc. Mr. Bayly's career started at Hewlett
Packard Company and he has been in the semiconductor equipment business since
1982.
 
     Gregor A. Campbell joined the Company in November 1997 as Vice President
and General Manager, Etch Products Organization. Prior to joining the Company,
Dr. Campbell was a Director and Chief Executive Officer of Trikon Technologies,
Inc.
 
     Craig Garber joined the Company in September 1997 as Vice President,
Corporate Finance and Treasurer. Before joining the Company, and since 1984, Mr.
Garber held various finance positions at Applied Materials, Inc. His most recent
position at Applied Materials, Inc. was Assistant Treasurer and Senior Director
of Treasury Operations.
 
     Richard H. Lovgren joined the Company in 1995 as Vice President, General
Counsel and Corporate Secretary. Before joining the Company, and since 1979, Mr.
Lovgren held various legal positions at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. His most
recent position at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. was Director and Deputy General
Counsel.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     The Company's executive offices and principal manufacturing and R&D
facilities are located in Fremont and San Jose, California, and are under leases
expiring from 2001 to 2020. As a result of the restructurings of operations, the
Company has excess capacity and has initiated a consolidation of its operations
and is attempting to sublease its idle facilities in Fremont, and San Jose,
California.
 
     In addition, the Company leases office space for its service and sales
personnel throughout the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific. The
Company has subleased, or is negotiating subleases, with respect to certain of
those facilities as part of its restructurings and consolidation.
 
     The Company's fiscal 1998 rental payments for the facilities occupied as of
June 30, 1998 aggregated approximately $44.7 million and are subject to periodic
increases. The Company believes that its existing facilities are well maintained
and in good operating condition.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     In October 1993, Varian brought suit against the Company in the United
States District Court, for the Northern District of California, seeking monetary
damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's alleged infringement of
certain patents held by Varian. The Company has asserted defenses of invalidity
and unenforceability of the patents that are the subject of the lawsuit, as well
as non-infringement of such patents by the Company's products. No trial date is
currently scheduled. While litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and
no assurance can be given that Lam will prevail in such litigation or will
obtain a license under such patents on commercially reasonable terms, or at all,
if such patents are held valid and infringed by the Company's products, the
Company believes that the Varian lawsuit will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's operating results or the Company's financial position.
 
     From time to time, Lam has received notices from third parties alleging
infringement of such parties' patent or other intellectual property rights by
the Company's products. In such cases, it is the policy of the Company to defend
the claims or negotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms, where
considered appropriate. However, no assurance can be given that Lam will be able
in the future to negotiate necessary
 

 
licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that any litigation
resulting from such claims would not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business and financial results.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to "Item
6. Selected Financial Data" below.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 

 

 

 

 
- ---------------
 
Stock and Dividend Information:
 
The Company's Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the
symbol LRCX. The price range per share is the highest and lowest bid prices, as
reported by the National Association of Security Dealers, Inc., on any trading
day during the respective quarter.
 
As of June 30, 1998, the Company had 895 stockholders of record.
 
No cash dividends have been declared or are anticipated to be paid by the
Company, as all available funds are intended to be employed in the development
of the business. Additionally, certain of the Company's bank agreements restrict
the payment of dividends.
 
See notes to consolidated financial statement.
 

 
ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
       OF OPERATIONS
 
     With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this
discussion are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of
the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and are subject
to the Safe Harbor provisions created by that statute. Such forward-looking
statements include, but are not limited to, statements that relate to the
Company's future revenue, product development, demand, acceptance and market
share, competitiveness, royalty income, gross margins, levels of R&D and
operating expenses, management's plans and objectives for current and future
operations of the Company, the effects of the Company's Merger with OnTrak, the
effects of the Company's on-going reorganization and consolidation of operations
and facilities, the ability of the Company to complete contemplated
reorganizations or consolidations on time or within anticipated costs, and the
sufficiency of financial resources to support future operations and capital
expenditures. Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject
to risks, uncertainties, and changes in condition, significance, value and
effect, including those discussed below under the heading Risk Factors, and
other documents the Company files from time to time with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, specifically the Company's last filed Registration
Statement Form S-3, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and the Company's current
reports on Form 8-K. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in condition,
significance, value and effect could cause actual results to differ materially
from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable. Readers are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which
speak only as of the date hereof and of information currently and reasonably
known. The Company undertakes no obligation to release the results of any
revisions to these forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect
events or circumstances which occur after the date hereof or to reflect the
occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. This discussion
should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and
Notes presented thereto on pages 30 to 52 of this Form 10-K for a full
understanding of the Company's financial position and results of operations.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  Merger
 
     On August 5, 1997, the stockholders of Lam approved the issuance of Lam
Common Stock under the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement")
between Lam and OnTrak. Each share of OnTrak Common Stock, par value $0.0001 per
share, was exchanged for 0.83 of a share of Lam Common Stock, par value $0.001
per share, and each option and right to acquire one share of OnTrak Common Stock
was exchanged for options and rights to purchase 0.83 of a share of Lam Common
Stock. The transaction was accounted for as a pooling of interests and
structured to qualify as a tax-free reorganization. All historical financial
data of the Company included herein reflects the consolidation of the historical
financial information of both Lam and OnTrak.
 
  Fiscal 1998 vs. 1997
 
     Total revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998 was 2% lower compared
to the prior fiscal year. Lam continues to experience a shift in its product
sales from single-chamber to multi-chamber cluster products. Increased sales of
Lam's Alliance cluster system, which utilizes from one to four TCP or Rainbow
etch chambers each, were more than offset by a decrease in sales of stand-alone
TCP etch systems and CVD systems. Sales of Lam's CMP cleaning and Rainbow etch
systems increased slightly during fiscal 1998 compared to the prior fiscal year.
 
     Total international revenue was 55% of Lam's total revenue for fiscal 1998,
compared to 57% of Lam's total revenue for fiscal 1997. Regionally, Lam's
revenue from its North America and Europe regions increased to 45% and 18%,
respectively, of total revenue in fiscal 1998 from 43% and 16%, respectively, in
fiscal 1997. The Japan and Asia Pacific regions' revenue decreased to 7% and
30%, respectively, of total revenue in fiscal 1998 from 9% and 32%,
respectively, in fiscal 1997. The Asian regions are currently experiencing
difficulties surrounding their financial markets and economies, which the
Company believes is likely to continue through at least the first half of fiscal
1999, and possibly beyond.
 

 
     The semiconductor industry is currently experiencing a worldwide slowdown
in equipment demand which was and continues to be in large part brought on by
depressed DRAM pricing, overcapacity and the financial crisis in Asia.
Additionally, the Company's future revenue will be adversely impacted by the
Company's decision to exit its CVD and FPD operations. The Company anticipates
that it will continue to experience a decline in revenues during fiscal 1999,
particularly during the first half of the fiscal year where revenues are
anticipated to be significantly lower than revenue for the second half of fiscal
1998.
 
     Royalty income decreased 84% during fiscal 1998 compared with fiscal 1997.
The reduction in royalty income is due in large part to the operation of an
extended royalty agreement with TEL, whereby the applicable royalty rate was
reduced from 5% to 1%, effective January 1, 1997 and to the slowdown in the
semiconductor industry. Fiscal 1998 was the first full year with royalty income
calculated at the reduced royalty rate of 1%. Fiscal 1999 royalty income is
anticipated to be lower than fiscal 1998 royalty income.
 
     Lam's gross margin percentage increased to 35.5% for fiscal 1998, compared
to 32.6% for fiscal 1997. Gross margin percentages for both fiscal years 1998
and 1997 were impacted by certain charges and adjustments described below.
During fiscal 1998, and as a result of the Company's restructuring actions (see
Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statement), Lam wrote-off $31.9 million for
inventory related to the CVD and FPD product lines. During fiscal 1997, and in
response to the faster than anticipated customer transition from single-chamber
to multi-chamber cluster systems and costs associated with continuing revisions
to the design and features of such multi-chamber products, Lam established
additional reserves of approximately $42.0 million relating to excess and
obsolete inventory and related commitments. In addition, during fiscal 1997, Lam
reevaluated its warranty and installation reserves and established additional
reserves of approximately $15.0 million. The fiscal 1998 gross margin percentage
improved slightly from fiscal 1997, as a result of improved margins on the
multi-chamber cluster systems partially offset by the effect of an unfavorable
product mix and a decrease in royalty income.
 
     R&D expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998 were 19.6% of total
revenue, compared to 17.9% of total revenue for the prior fiscal year. Lam
believes that in order to remain competitive it must continue to invest
substantially in R&D. During fiscal 1998, Lam increased its investment in R&D
related to the development of the Teres CMP polishing system. Lam continues to
invest in advanced etch applications and to make enhancements to its Alliance
and TCP products, including developing the technology necessary to incorporate
300 mm and copper wafer processing capabilities into its products. As discussed
in Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statement, Lam announced and initiated
implementation of plans to discontinue activities in its R&D efforts relating to
FPD and CVD product lines. Lam will realize the full benefit of its
restructurings in the form of lower R&D expenses in future quarters.
 
     Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses as a percentage of
revenue for fiscal 1998 were virtually flat, compared to fiscal 1997. Lam
continues to monitor closely expenditures and capital additions relative to
revenue levels. As a result of the restructurings, the Company expects that its
fiscal 1999 SG&A expenses will be lower than fiscal 1998 SG&A expenses and that
it will begin to realize the benefits of its restructurings during the first
half of fiscal 1999.
 
     During the quarters ended March 31, 1998 and June 30, 1998, Lam
restructured its operations to reduce its global workforce and to focus on its
core etch and CMP product groups as well as to exit its FPD and CVD operations.
As a result, Lam recorded a total charge of $148.9 million to cover the effects
of the reduction in global workforce, the exit of FPD and CVD operations and the
consolidation of facilities and manufacturing operations.
 
     Included in the total restructuring charge was $40.3 million, $64.4
million, $31.9 million and $12.3 million, respectively, relating to severance
and benefits, facilities and fixed assets, excess and obsolete inventory and
other exit costs. The excess and obsolete inventory write-off for the affected
product lines was classified as a component of cost of goods sold, negatively
impacting the Company's gross margin percentage. At June 30, 1998, a total of
$48.4 million remains on the Company's balance sheet, of which $30.5 million,
$15.5 million and $2.4 million, respectively, relates to severance and benefit
costs, facilities and fixed assets, write-offs and other exit costs. Through
June 30, 1998, the Company has made cash payments of $11.3 million relating to
severance, benefits and rent for excess facilities and it has written off $47.3
million, $31.9 million

 
and $9.9 million relating to facilities and fixed assets, excess and obsolete
inventory, and other exit costs. At June 30, 1998, the Company has approximately
$46.0 million of remaining future cash payments relating primarily to severance
and benefits and rent for excess facilities. The Company anticipates that it
will substantially complete its restructuring by the end of fiscal 1999.
 
     During the first quarter of fiscal 1997, Lam restructured its operations by
consolidating its previous business unit structures into a more centralized
functional organization. As a result, during the first quarter of fiscal 1997,
Lam recorded a restructuring charge of $9.0 million for costs related primarily
to severance compensation and consolidation of facilities. As of June 30, 1998,
$1.3 million of such amounts remains in accrued liabilities, relating primarily
to severance compensation.
 
     During the first quarter of fiscal 1998, Lam recorded costs of $17.7
million relating to the merger with OnTrak. Such expenses were related to
investment advisory fees, legal and accounting fees, financial printing costs
and other merger-related expenditures.
 
     During the third quarter of fiscal 1998, Lam purchased a non-exclusive
license for Trikon's MORI(TM) source technology. Lam recorded a charge of $12.1
million for the license and for the purchase of an R&D system from Trikon. The
technology was acquired for R&D projects and its future uses are unknown at this
time. Pursuant to the license, $5.0 million in additional fees will become
payable due in fiscal 1999 (separate from royalties owed on shipments of MORI
source based systems determined by rates prescribed in the license).
 
     Other income increased to $1.8 million during fiscal 1998 from a loss of
$0.1 million during fiscal 1997. During August 1997, the Company completed an
offering of $310.0 million of Convertible Subordinated Notes ("the Notes"),
which bear interest at five percent and are due to mature on September 1, 2002.
While interest expense has increased due to issuance of the Notes, interest
income has increased significantly during fiscal 1998, as Lam's rate of return
on the invested cash proceeds of the debenture offering has exceeded the
interest rate it pays on the Notes. However, during fiscal 1998, Lam recognized
higher foreign currency exchange losses, primarily due to exchange rate
fluctuations in Korea, which offset in part the increase in interest income.
 
     The Company recorded a tax benefit of 19.3% of its pre-tax loss compared to
49.6% for the prior fiscal year. The decrease is primarily due to the Company
not currently benefiting from certain expenses associated with the Company's
restructurings which resulted in net operating loss carryovers and tax credit
carryforwards for tax purposes. Realization of the Company's net deferred tax
assets (approximately $104 million as of June 30, 1998) is dependent on future
taxable income. While the Company believes it is more likely than not that such
assets will be realized, other factors, including those mentioned in the
discussion of Risk Factors below, may impact the ultimate realization of such
assets.
 
     The Company has established a team to address issues raised by the
introduction of the Single European Currency ("Euro") for initial implementation
as of January 1, 1999, and through the transition period to January 1, 2002. The
Company expects to be able to meet related legal requirements by January 1,
1999, and through the transition period. Lam does not expect the cost of any
system modifications to be material and does not currently expect that
introduction and use of the Euro will materially affect its foreign exchange and
hedging activities or will result in any material increase in transaction costs.
The Company will continue to evaluate the impact over time of the introduction
of the Euro; however, based on currently available information management does
not believe that the introduction of the Euro will have a material adverse
impact on the Company's financial condition or the overall trends in results of
operations.
 
     The Company relies heavily on the Company's existing application software
and operating systems. The Year 2000 compliance issue (in which systems do not
properly recognize date sensitive information when the year changes to 2000)
creates risks for the Company: if internal data management, accounting and/or
manufacturing or operational software and systems do not adequately or
accurately process or manage day or date information beyond the year 1999, there
could be an adverse impact on the Company's operations. To address the issue,
the Company has assembled a task force to review and assess internal software,
data management, accounting and manufacturing and operational systems to ensure
that they do not malfunction
 

 
as a result of the Year 2000 date transition. The review and corrective measures
are proceeding in parallel. This review and corrective measures are intended to
encompass all significant categories of systems used by the Company, including
data management, accounting, manufacturing, sales, human resources and
operational software and systems. The Company is also working with its
significant suppliers of products and systems to assure that the products and
systems supplied to the Company, and the products the Company supplies to its
customers, are Year 2000 compliant. With respect to compliance of the products
the Company supplies to its customers, the Company intends to adhere to Year
2000 test case scenarios established by SEMATECH, an industry group comprised of
U.S. semiconductor manufacturers. The Company's compliance efforts are
substantially complete, and the Company currently expects that its review,
corrective measures and contingency planning (where necessary) will be complete
by the end of fiscal 1999, with the goal of resolving all material internal
programs and systems prior to the Year 2000 date transition.
 
     In connection with its review and corrective measures, both to ensure that
its internal products and systems, and the operating systems accompanying the
products sold to its customers, are Year 2000 compliant, the Company expects
both to replace some software and systems and to upgrade others where
appropriate. As a contingency with respect to products the Company currently
offers to its customers, the Company may replace all non-compliant operating
systems with systems demonstrated to be Year 2000 compliant. With respect to
products and systems supplied to the Company for use internally, the Company may
upgrade all non-compliant products and systems and, where necessary or where no
reasonable upgrade is available, replace such non-compliant products and systems
with products and systems demonstrated to be Year 2000 compliant.
 
     The Company is in the process of identifying for its customers the
corrective measures necessary to ensure that its installed products are Year
2000 compliant, including compliance of third-party products (such as software)
incorporated into the Company's installed products. In this regard, the Company
is incurring, and will continue to incur throughout fiscal 1999, various costs
to provide customer support regarding Year 2000 issues, and certain of such
costs are expected to be borne not by the Company but, instead, to be passed on
to the customers. The full cost of these activities, including corrective
measures, is not fully known. However, the Company believes that the potential
future financial impact of assuring such Year 2000 compliance is not expected to
be material. The Company's failure to ensure, at all or in a timely or
reasonable manner, that its products are Year 2000 compliant may cause
disruption in the customer's ability to derive expected productivity from those
products or to integrate the products fully and functionally into certain
automated manufacturing environments. With respect to products and systems the
Company purchases for use internally, failure to ensure Year 2000 compliance may
cause disruption in the Company's automated accounting, financial planning, data
management and manufacturing operations which could have a material effect on
the Company's short-term ability to manage its day-to-day operations in an
efficient, cost-effective and reliable manner.
 
     The Company believes that its Year 2000 compliance project will be
completed on a timely basis, and in advance of the Year 2000 date transition and
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
overall trends in the results of operations. However, there can be no assurance
that unexpected delays or problems, including the failure to ensure Year 2000
compliance by systems or products supplied to the Company by a third party, will
not have an adverse effect on the Company, its financial performance, or the
competitiveness or customer acceptance of its products. Further, the Company's
current understanding of expected costs is subject to change as the project
progresses and does not include potential costs related to actual customer
claims, or the cost of internal software and hardware replaced in the normal
course of business whose installation otherwise may be accelerated to provide
solutions to Year 2000 compliance issues.
 
  Fiscal 1997 vs 1996
 
     Lam's revenue for fiscal year 1997 totaled $1,073.2 million, a 19% decrease
from fiscal 1996 total revenue of $1,332.7 million. Overall, revenue was lower
in fiscal 1997 than fiscal 1996, due to the reduced demand for Lam's equipment
in large part based on its customers' reduced production capacity requirements
in response to a slowdown in the semiconductor market. Also, during fiscal 1997,
Lam's product mix began to shift, with a

 
higher percentage of revenues contributed by the multi-chamber Alliance and CVD
products and a lower percentage of revenues derived from the more mature
single-chamber Rainbow and TCP etch systems. Revenue from sales of Lam's
cleaning products increased 25% in fiscal 1997, compared with fiscal 1996.
Regionally, revenue reflected a higher percentage attributable to domestic
sales, with revenue from foreign regions decreasing to 57% of total revenue in
fiscal 1997 from 63% in fiscal 1996. The Japan region experienced the largest
decline in revenue, a 50% decrease from the prior year representing
approximately 30% of the total decline in revenue for the Company. Total spares
and service revenue dollars remained virtually flat in fiscal 1997 compared to
fiscal 1996. Service revenue represented less than 4% of total revenue in fiscal
1997 and 1996.
 
     Royalty income for fiscal 1997 decreased 44% to $12.7 million from $22.8
million in fiscal 1996. The reduction in royalty income was due primarily to the
lower royalty rate effective January 1, 1997 under the extended royalty
agreement with TEL. The agreement, originally set to expire on December 31,
1996, was extended and renegotiated to provide for a reduced royalty rate during
the extended period of 1% (from the original 5% rate).
 
     Lam's gross margin percentage for fiscal 1997 was 32.6% compared to 48.3%
for fiscal 1996. As noted above, during fiscal 1997 Lam's product mix shifted
from the higher-margin Rainbow products to the newer lower-margin Alliance
cluster etch and CVD products. Furthermore, as a result of the
faster-than-expected customer transition from single-chamber to multi-chamber
tools and continuing revisions to the design and features of such multi-chamber
products, Lam established additional reserves during the third quarter of fiscal
1997 of approximately $42.0 million for excess and obsolete manufacturing and
spare parts inventories and related commitments. Lam also re-evaluated its
warranty and installation reserves and determined that additional provisions of
approximately $15.0 million were required to account, in large part, for greater
installation and warranty support costs associated with the Alliance cluster and
CVD tools.
 
     R&D expenses increased to $192.3 million in fiscal 1997 from $186.9 million
in fiscal 1996. As a percentage of total revenue, R&D expenses increased to
17.9% in fiscal 1997 compared with 14.1% in fiscal 1996. Contributing to the
increase in R&D expenses during fiscal 1997 was Lam's continued investment in
development of its CMP polishing system. During the first quarter of fiscal
1997, Lam implemented a restructuring of operations which eliminated the
previously existing business unit structure. As a result of the restructuring,
R&D activities were centralized and certain duplicate R&D functions were
eliminated. During fiscal 1997, the Company wrote-off approximately $3.0 million
of R&D-related fixed assets.
 
     SG&A expenses decreased $28.2 million in fiscal 1997 from $237.4 million in
fiscal 1996. During fiscal 1996, Lam added employees in all administrative areas
to accommodate the increase in sales volume. During fiscal 1997, in response to
the slowdown in the semiconductor market and the decrease in sales volume, Lam
implemented a restructuring of operations which resulted in a reduction in
workforce and initiated programs which reduced expenses and capital spending.
Partially offsetting the overall reduction in SG&A expenses were $6.6 million of
bad debt expense for at-risk receivables relating to a customer in Thailand and
an adjustment of approximately $3.0 million for the write-off of certain
obsolete customer evaluation systems.
 
     During fiscal 1997, Lam restructured its operations by consolidating its
previous business unit structure into a more centralized functional
organization. As a result of the restructuring, and in response to market
conditions, Lam reduced its workforce by approximately 11% and recorded a charge
of $9.0 million related primarily to severance compensation and consolidation of
facilities. At June 30, 1997, $1.7 million remained in accrued liabilities
relating primarily to executive severance and continuing lease payments on
remaining idle facilities.
 
     Interest expense for Lam decreased by 35% in fiscal 1997 over fiscal 1996,
due primarily to the retirement of the 6% subordinated convertible debentures in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996.
 
     Lam recorded a tax benefit of 49.6% of its pre-tax loss, related primarily
to the benefit from its carryback operating loss and R&D tax credits for fiscal
1997.
 

 
  Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
     As of June 30, 1998, the Company had $448.5 million in cash, cash
equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash, compared with $195.7
million at June 30, 1997. The Company has a total of $100.0 million available
under a syndicated bank line of credit, which is due to expire in April 2001.
The syndicated bank line of credit originally bore interest at 0.45% to 0.75%
over London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"). Borrowings are subject to the
Company's compliance with financial and other covenants set forth in the credit
documents. The Company received waivers, effective June 30, 1998, of compliance
with certain financial covenants and has since amended the syndicated bank line
of credit with respect to certain applicable covenant requirements and amended
the line of credit borrowing rates to 0.55% to 0.95% over LIBOR.
 
     The Company generated $51.2 million of cash from operations in fiscal 1998
primarily as a result of changes in working capital accounts. Accounts
receivable generated $51.8 million of cash as a result of improved asset
management and lower revenues. Accrued liabilities increased $36.9 million due
to cash-related restructuring reserves which was offset by decreases in warranty
and installation reserves and taxes payable. In addition, decreases in prepaid
expenses and other assets generated $11.9 million in cash, while a decrease in
accounts payable consumed $49.5 million of cash. Accounts payable decreased
primarily due to a lower level of purchases reflecting anticipated lower
business volumes.
 
     Net cash used for investing activities during fiscal 1998 was $438.6
million. Net purchases of available-for-sale securities was $328.8 million,
resulting primarily from the investment of the cash received from the issuance
of the Notes (see Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statement). As a
requirement under the amended and restated Synthetic Lease Agreement (see Note J
to the Consolidated Financial Statement), Lam was required to transfer $51.4
million from cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments to restricted
cash, which is classified as a long-term asset. Net capital expenditures for
fiscal 1998 were $50.2 million. Cash totaling $12.1 million was also used to
purchase technology for R&D (see Note T to the Consolidated Financial
Statement).
 
     Net cash flows provided by financing activities were $260.0 million.
Contributing to the cash from financing activities was $301.0 million from the
issuance of the Notes. Offsetting the cash contributions was a repayment of a
line of credit of $35.0 million, and repayments of debt and capital lease
obligations of $26.6 million.
 
     Lam's commitments consist primarily of debt obligations and operating and
capital lease commitments for its facilities and equipment. Based upon current
forecasts, Lam's cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and available
lines of credit at June 30, 1998 are expected to be sufficient to support
anticipated levels of operations and capital expenditures through at least June
30, 1999.
 

 
RISK FACTORS
 
  Fluctuations in Quarterly Revenues and Operating Results
 
     The Company's quarterly revenues have fluctuated in the past and may
fluctuate in the future. The Company's revenues are dependent on many factors,
including, but not limited to, the economic conditions in the semiconductor
industry generally, and equipment industry specifically, customer capacity
requirements, the size and timing of the receipt of orders from customers,
customer cancellations or delays of shipments, the Company's ability to develop,
introduce and market new, enhanced and competitive products, at all and on a
timely basis, the introduction of new products by its competitors, challenges to
the Company's products and technology, changes in average selling prices and
product mix, and exchange rate fluctuations, among others. The Company's expense
levels will be based, in part, on expectations of future revenues. If revenue
levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, operating results could
be adversely affected.
 
     The Company derives its revenue primarily from the sale of a relatively
small number of high-priced systems. The Company's systems can range in price
from approximately $150,000 to $2.5 million per unit. The sale of fewer systems
than anticipated in any quarter may have a substantial negative impact on the
Company's operating results for the quarter. The Company's results of operations
for a particular quarter could be adversely affected if anticipated orders are
not received in time to enable shipment during such quarter, if anticipated
shipments are delayed or canceled by one or more customers, or if shipments are
delayed due to procurement shortages or manufacturing difficulties. Further, as
a result of the continuing consolidation of manufacturing operations and
capacity at the Company's Fremont, California facility, natural, physical or
other events affecting the facility, including labor disruptions, could
adversely impact the Company's operations and revenue.
 
  Volatility in the Semiconductor Equipment Industry
 
     The business of the Company depends on the capital equipment expenditures
of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and
anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and products utilizing
integrated circuits. The semiconductor industry has been cyclical in nature and
has historically experienced periodic downturns. The semiconductor industry has
been experiencing a slowdown of product demand and extreme volatility in product
pricing. This slowdown and volatility has caused the semiconductor industry to
reduce significantly or delay purchases of semiconductor manufacturing equipment
and construction of new fabrication facilities. This slowdown and volatility is
expected to continue in fiscal 1999. As previously announced, these conditions
have adversely affected and will continue to affect materially the Company's
aggregate bookings, revenues and operating results, and the Company's bookings,
revenue and operating results are likely to continue to be adversely affected by
a continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. Even during periods of
reduced revenues, in order to remain competitive the Company will be required to
continue to invest in R&D and to maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer
service and support capability, which could adversely affect its financial
results.
 
  Dependence on New Products and Processes; Rapid Technological Change
 
     Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes
subject the semiconductor equipment industry to increased pressure to maintain
technological parity with deep submicron process technology. The Company
believes that its future success will depend in part upon its ability to
develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new products and product lines
with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance existing products. Due to
the risks inherent in transitioning to new products, the Company will be
required to forecast accurately demand for new products while managing the
transition from older products. If new products have reliability or quality
problems, reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of
and payment for new products and additional service and warranty expenses may
result. In the past, the Company has experienced some delays as well as
reliability and quality problems in connection with product introductions,
resulting in some of these consequences. There can be no assurance that the
Company will successfully develop and manufacture new products, or that new
products introduced
 

 
by it will be accepted in the marketplace. If Lam does not successfully
introduce new products, the Company's results from operations will be materially
adversely affected.
 
     The Company expects to continue to make significant investments in R&D and
to explore joint development relationships with other members of the industry.
The Company must manage product transitions or joint development relationships
successfully, as introduction of new products could adversely affect sales of
existing products. There can be no assurance that future technologies, processes
or product developments will not render the Company's current product offerings
obsolete or that the Company will be able to develop and introduce new products
or enhancements to existing products which satisfy customer needs in a timely
manner or achieve market acceptance. The failure to do so could adversely affect
the Company's business. Furthermore, if the Company is not successful in the
marketing and selling of advanced processes or equipment to customers with whom
it has formed strategic alliances, selling of its products to those customers
could be adversely affected. In addition, in connection with the development of
the Company's new products, the Company will invest in high levels of
preproduction inventory, and the failure to complete development and
commercialization of these new products in a timely manner could result in
inventory obsolescence, which could have an adverse effect on its financial
results.
 
  Introduction of New Product
 
     Lam currently anticipates shipping its Teres CMP system in fiscal 1999,
which is expected to face significant competition from multiple current and
future competitors. Among the companies currently offering polishing systems are
Applied Materials, Inc., Cybeq Systems, Ebara Corporation, IPEC, SpeedFam Corp.,
Strasbaugh and Sumitomo. Lam believes that other companies are developing
polishing systems and are planning to introduce new products to this market
before or during the same time frame as the Company's anticipated introduction
of its Teres CMP polishing system.
 
  Product Concentration; Lack of Product Revenue Diversification
 
     A substantial percentage of the Company's revenues to date have been
derived from a limited number of products, and such products are expected to
continue to account for a substantial percentage of the Company's revenues in
the near term. Continued market acceptance of its primary products is therefore
critical to the future success of the Company. Any decline in demand for or
failure to achieve continued market acceptance of such products or any new
version of these products, if any, as a result of competition, technological
change, failure of the Company to release new versions of these products on
time, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the business,
operating results, financial condition and cash flows of the Company.
 
  Dependence Upon Key Suppliers and Key Distributors
 
     Certain of the components and subassemblies included in the products of the
Company are obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. The
Company's key suppliers include Bullen Ultrasonics, Inc., which supplies
electrodes, Edwards High Vacuum Inc., Lam's supplier of chillers, and Advanced
Energy Industries, Lam's RF generator supplier. The Company purchases in excess
of $500,000 of supplies on a monthly basis from these suppliers. Each of these
suppliers has a one year blanket purchase contract under which Lam may issue
purchase orders. These contracts may be renewed annually. Each of these
suppliers has sold products to Lam during at least the last four years, and
there is no reason to expect that they will not continue to renew these
contracts in the future. Management believes that alternative sources could be
obtained and qualified to supply these products. Nevertheless, a prolonged
inability to obtain certain components could have an adverse effect on the
Company's operating results and could result in damage to customer
relationships.
 
  Highly Competitive Industry
 
     The semiconductor equipment manufacturing industry is highly competitive.
The Company expects to continue to face substantial competition throughout the
world. A substantial investment is required by semiconductor manufacturers to
install and integrate capital equipment into a semiconductor production line.
 

 
The Company believes that as a result, once a semiconductor manufacturer has
selected a particular supplier's capital equipment, the manufacturer generally
relies upon that equipment for the specific production line application and
frequently will attempt to consolidate its other capital equipment requirements
with the same supplier. Accordingly, Lam would expect to experience difficulty
in selling to a given customer if that customer had initially selected or
selects a competitor's capital equipment. The Company believes that to remain
competitive, significant financial resources are required in order to offer a
broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers
worldwide, and to invest in product and process R&D.
 
     The semiconductor equipment industry is becoming increasingly dominated by
large manufacturers who have the resources to support customers on a worldwide
basis, and certain of Lam's competitors have substantially greater financial
resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and customer
service and support. In addition, there are smaller, emerging semiconductor
equipment companies that provide innovative technology that may have performance
advantages over systems offered by the Company.
 
     Competitors are expected to continue to improve the design and performance
of their current products and processes and to introduce new products and
processes with improved price and performance characteristics. If competitors
enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers
covering products similar to those sold or being developed by the Company, its
ability to sell products to those manufacturers could be adversely affected. No
assurance can be given that Lam will continue to compete successfully in the
United States or worldwide.
 
     Present or future competitors may be able to develop products comparable or
superior to those offered by the Company or adapt more quickly to new
technologies or evolving customer requirements. In particular, while Lam
currently is developing additional product enhancements that it believes
addresses customer requirements, there can be no assurance that the development
or introduction of these additional product enhancements will be successfully
completed, at all or on a timely basis, or that these product enhancements will
achieve market acceptance or be competitive. Accordingly, there can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to continue to compete effectively in
its markets, that competition will not intensify or that future competition will
not have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results, financial
condition and cash flows of the Company.
 
  International Sales
 
     International sales accounted for 55%, 57% and 63%, respectively, of net
revenues in the fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996. Historically, sales to the
Asia regions have accounted for a substantial portion of international sales.
Recent banking and currency problems in the Asia regions have had and will
continue to have a significant adverse impact on the Company's revenue and
operations, including specifically revenues and operations for fiscal 1999.
 
     Sales of products currently are denominated in United States dollars. In
Korea, devaluation of the won and difficulties by customers in obtaining credit
have curtailed semiconductor equipment investment and have recently led to
cancellation or delay of orders by the Company's customers, and are likely to
continue to do so in fiscal 1999.
 
     In Japan, the Company's sales are denominated in Japanese yen. A further
weakening of the value of the Japanese yen as compared to the U.S. dollar could
further negatively impact operating margins. Currently, the Company enters into
foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the impact of exchange rate
fluctuations on yen-denominated assets and liabilities, will continue to enter
into such hedging transactions in the future.
 
     In Europe, sales following January 1, 1999 will be subject to certain
provisions governing the transition of commercial transactions to the Euro. Lam
expects to be able to meet related legal requirements by January 1, 1999, and
through the transition period. The Company does not currently expect that
introduction and use of the Euro will materially affect its foreign exchange and
hedging activities or will result in any material increase in transaction costs.
Lam will continue to evaluate the impact over time of the introduction of the
Euro. Based
 

 
on currently available information management does not believe that the
introduction of the Euro will have a material adverse impact on Lam's financial
condition or the overall trends in results of operations.
 
     The impact of these and other factors on the Company's revenues and
operating results in any future period is difficult to forecast. There can be no
assurance that these and other factors relating to international sales and
operations by the Company will not materially adversely affect future business
and financial results, or in ways not readily foreseeable.
 
  Environmental Regulations
 
     The Company is subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to
the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals
used in the manufacturing process. Lam believes that it is in general compliance
with these regulations and that it has obtained (or will obtain or is otherwise
addressing) all necessary environmental permits to conduct its business, which
permits generally relate to the disposal of hazardous wastes. Nevertheless, the
failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being
imposed on the Company, suspension of production, cessation of operations or
reduction in product acceptance. Such regulations could require the Company to
alter current operations or acquire significant equipment or incur substantial
other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure to control
the use, sale or transport, or adequately restrict the discharge or disposal,
hazardous substances could subject the Company to future liabilities.
 
  Dependence on Key Personnel and Difficulty of Identifying and Hiring Certain
Personnel
 
     The performance of the Company is substantially dependent on the
performance of its executive officers and key employees. The loss of the
services of any of the executive officers or other key employees could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results, financial
condition, cash flows, market perceptions and price of Lam Common Stock.
 
     The future success of the Company also depends on its continuing ability to
identify, hire, train and retain other highly qualified technical and managerial
personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and Lam has experienced
difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified engineering personnel. There can
be no assurance that it will be able to attract, assimilate or retain highly
qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. The inability to
attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results, financial
condition and cash flows, market perceptions and price of Lam Common Stock.
 
  Management Transition
 
     In recent years, the Company has experienced consolidation of its
operations and transitions in management that has placed significant demands on
its respective administrative, operational and financial resources, the demands
of which are expected to intensify. James W. Bagley, the Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of OnTrak, became the Chief Executive Officer of Lam on August
6, 1997 and was promoted to Chairman of the Board of Lam in September 1998. In
addition, Lam hired a new Chief Financial Officer, Mercedes Johnson, in April
1997 and a new Chief Operating Officer, Stephen G. Newberry in August 1997 (who
was promoted to President in July 1998). There can be no assurance that such
consolidation and/or management transitions can be accomplished in an efficient
manner, and without undue business disruption.
 
 Management of Potential Growth; Integration of Potential Acquisitions/
  Potential Disposition of Product Line Technologies
 
     To manage future growth, if any, management of the Company will face
significant challenges in improving financial and business controls, management
processes, information systems and procedures on a timely basis, and expanding,
training and managing its work force. There can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to perform such actions successfully. In the future, Lam may make
additional
 

 
acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, or reduce or
dispose of certain product lines or technologies which no longer complement its
long-term strategy, such as the exit of FPD and CVD operations. Managing an
acquired business or disposing of product technologies entails numerous
operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired
operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups,
diversion of management's attention to other business concerns, amortization of
acquired intangible assets and potential loss of key employees or customers of
acquired or disposed operations. The Company's success will depend, to a
significant extent, on the ability of its executive officers and other members
of senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve and manage
effectively any such growth, integration of potential acquisitions or
disposition of product lines or technologies, or that its management, personnel
or systems will be adequate to support operations. Any such inabilities or
inadequacies would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
operating results, financial condition and cash flows.
 
     An important element of Lam's management strategy is to review acquisition
prospects that would complement existing products, augment its market coverage
and distribution ability, or enhance its technological capabilities. While Lam
has no current agreements or negotiations under way with respect to any new
acquisitions, it may acquire additional businesses, products or technologies in
the future. Acquisitions by the Company could result in changes similar to those
that have been and continue to be incurred in connection with the Merger,
potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and
contingent liabilities and amortization expense related to goodwill and other
intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect the Company's
business, financial condition and results of operations and/or the price of its
Common Stock.
 
  Potential Volatility of Common Stock Price
 
     The market price for Lam Common Stock has been volatile and it could
continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to market or
industry conditions generally, or specific variations in quarterly operating
results, shortfalls in revenues or earnings from levels expected by securities
analysts and other factors such as announcements of restructurings,
technological innovations, reductions in force, departure of key employees,
consolidations of operations or introduction of new products by the Company or
by the Company's competitors, government regulations, developments in patent or
other proprietary rights, disruptions with key customers or the occurrence of
political, economic or environmental events globally or in key sales regions. In
addition, the stock market has in recent years experienced significant price
fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated to the operating
performance of the specific companies whose stocks are traded. Recent
fluctuations affecting Lam Common Stock have been tied in part to the Asian and
Russian financial crisis and the price of semiconductors. Broad market
fluctuations, as well as economic conditions generally in the semiconductor
industry, may adversely affect the market price of Lam Common Stock.
 
  Potential Anti-takeover Effects of Rights Plan and Bylaws
 
     On January 23, 1997, the Company adopted a Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan")
in which rights were distributed as a dividend at the rate of one right for each
share of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Company held by
stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 31, 1997 and
thereafter. In connection with the adoption of the Rights Plan, the Board of
Directors also adopted a number of amendments to the Company's Bylaws, including
amendments requiring advance notice of stockholder nominations of directors and
stockholder proposals.
 
     The Rights Plan may have certain anti-takeover effects. The Rights Plan
will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire
the Company in certain circumstances. Accordingly, the existence of the Rights
Plan and the issuance of the related rights may deter certain acquirers from
making takeover proposals or tender offers. The Rights Plan, however, is not
intended to prevent a takeover, but rather is designed to enhance the ability of
the Board of Directors to negotiate with a potential acquirer on behalf of all
of the stockholders.
 

 
     In addition, the Company's Certificate of Incorporation authorizes issuance
of 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. The Board of Directors of
the Company, without further stockholder approval, may issue this preferred
stock with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine, which could have
the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. The
issuance of preferred stock could also adversely affect the voting power of the
holders of Common Stock, including causing the loss of voting control. The
Company's Bylaws and indemnity agreements with certain officers, directors, and
key employees provide that the Company will indemnify officers and directors
against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their
service to the Company. Moreover, Section 203 of the Delaware General
Corporation Law restricts certain business combinations with "interested
stockholders" as defined by that statute.
 
  Intellectual Property Matters
 
     From time to time, Lam has received notices from third parties alleging
infringement of such parties' patent or other intellectual property rights by
the Company's products. In such cases, it is the policy of the Company to defend
the claims or negotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms, where
considered appropriate. However, no assurance can be given that Lam will be able
in the future to negotiate necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms,
or at all, or that any litigation resulting from such claims would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial results.
 
     In October 1993, Varian brought suit against Lam in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California, seeking monetary damages
and injunctive relief based on the Company's alleged infringement of certain
patents held by Varian. The Company has asserted defenses of invalidity and
unenforceability of the patents that are the subject of the lawsuit, as well as
non-infringement of such patents by the Company's products. No trial date is
currently scheduled. While litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and
no assurance can be given that Lam will prevail in such litigation or will
obtain a license under such patents on commercially reasonable terms, or at all,
if such patents are held valid and infringed by the Company's products, the
Company believes that the Varian lawsuit will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's operating results or the Company's financial position.
 
     The Company's success depends in part on its proprietary technology. While
Lam attempts to protect its proprietary technology through patents, copyrights
and trade secret protection, it believes that its success will depend on more
technological expertise, continuing the development of new systems, market
penetration and growth of its installed base and the ability to provide
comprehensive support and service to customers. There can be no assurance that
the Company will be able to protect its technology or that competitors will not
be able to develop similar or more competitive technology independently. Lam
currently holds a number of United States and foreign patents and patent
applications pending. There can be no assurance that any patents issued to the
Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that pending
applications will be issued or that the rights granted or anticipated thereunder
will provide competitive advantages.
 
  Year 2000 Compliance
 
     The Company relies heavily on the Company's existing application software
and operating systems. The Year 2000 compliance issue (in which systems do not
properly recognize date sensitive information when the year changes to 2000)
creates risks for the Company: if internal data management, accounting and/or
manufacturing or operational software and systems do not adequately or
accurately process or manage day or date information beyond the year 1999, there
could be an adverse impact on the Company's operations. To address the issue,
the Company has assembled a task force to review and assess internal software,
data management, accounting and manufacturing and operational systems to ensure
that they do not malfunction as a result of the Year 2000 date transition. The
review and corrective measures are proceeding in parallel. This review and
corrective measures are intended to encompass all significant categories of
systems used by the Company, including data management, accounting,
manufacturing, sales, human resources and operational software and systems. The
Company is also working with its significant suppliers of products and systems
to assure that the products and systems supplied to the Company, and the
products the Company supplies to its customers, are Year 2000 compliant. With
respect to compliance of the products the Company supplies to its customers, the
Company intends to adhere to Year 2000 test case scenarios established by

 
SEMATECH, an industry group comprised of U.S. semiconductor manufacturers. The
Company's compliance efforts are substantially complete, and the Company
currently expects that its review, corrective measures and contingency planning
(where necessary) will be complete by the end of fiscal 1999, with the goal of
resolving all material internal programs and systems prior to the Year 2000 date
transition.
 
     In connection with its review and corrective measures, both to ensure that
its internal products and systems, and the operating systems accompanying the
products sold to its customers, are Year 2000 compliant, the Company expects
both to replace some software and systems and to upgrade others where
appropriate. As a contingency with respect to products the Company currently
offers to its customers, the Company may replace all non-compliant operating
systems with systems demonstrated to be Year 2000 compliant. With respect to
products and systems supplied to the Company for use internally, the Company may
upgrade all non-compliant products and systems and, where necessary or where no
reasonable upgrade is available, replace such non-compliant products and systems
with products and systems demonstrated to be Year 2000 compliant.
 
     The Company is in the process of identifying for its customers the
corrective measures necessary to ensure that its installed products are Year
2000 compliant, including compliance of third-party products (such as software)
incorporated into the Company's installed products. In this regard, the Company
is incurring, and will continue to incur throughout fiscal 1999, various costs
to provide customer support regarding Year 2000 issues, and certain of such
costs are expected to be borne not by the Company but, instead, to be passed on
to the customers. The full cost of these activities, including corrective
measures, is not fully known. However, the Company believes that the potential
future financial impact of assuring such Year 2000 compliance is not expected to
be material. The Company's failure to ensure, at all or in a timely or
reasonable manner, that its products are Year 2000 compliant may cause
disruption in the customer's ability to derive expected productivity from those
products or to integrate the products fully and functionally into certain
automated manufacturing environments. With respect to products and systems the
Company purchases for use internally, failure to ensure Year 2000 compliance may
cause disruption in the Company's automated accounting, financial planning, data
management and manufacturing operations which could have a material effect on
the Company's short-term ability to manage its day-to-day operations in an
efficient, cost-effective and reliable manner.
 
     The Company believes that its Year 2000 compliance project will be
completed on a timely basis, and in advance of the Year 2000 date transition and
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
overall trends in the results of operations. However, there can be no assurance
that unexpected delays or problems, including the failure to ensure Year 2000
compliance by systems or products supplied to the Company by a third party, will
not have an adverse effect on the Company, its financial performance, or the
competitiveness or customer acceptance of its products. Further, the Company's
current understanding of expected costs is subject to change as the project
progresses and does not include potential costs related to actual customer
claims, or the cost of internal software and hardware replaced in the normal
course of business whose installation otherwise may be accelerated to provide
solutions to Year 2000 compliance issues.
 
  Restructurings and Consolidation of Operations
 
     The Company substantially restructured and consolidated its operations
during the quarters ended March 31, 1998 and June 30, 1998. Implementation of
these restructurings and consolidations involves several risks, including that
of simplifying and modifying its product line offerings which will increase its
dependence on fewer products and potentially reduce overall sales.
 
     Although the Company believes that the actions it is taking in connection
with the restructurings and consolidations, including the reduction in
workforce, the consolidation of manufacturing operations and exit of FPD and CVD
operations, should help more closely align Lam with its business outlook, there
can be no assurance that such actions will enable the Company to achieve its
objectives of reducing costs or can be accomplished at specific or optimum
values or on time or as intended. In addition, there can be no assurance that
the size of the restructuring charge will not exceed current estimates. The
Company's future consolidated
 

 
operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected should it
encounter difficulty in effectively managing the restructurings and
consolidations.
 
  Reduction of CVD Operations
 
     In connection with the decision to exit CVD operations, Lam is conducting
discussions with certain customers to provide appropriate continuing product
support with respect to the CVD installed base. There can be no assurance that
the Company will be successful in negotiating business resolutions concerning
continuing product support, at all or on commercially reasonable terms. Future
operating results and financial conditions could be adversely affected should it
encounter difficulty in obtaining reasonable resolutions of these concerns.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     The Company's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates
primarily to the Company's investment portfolio and long-term debt obligations.
The Company maintains a strict investment policy which ensures the safety and
preservation of its invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and
reinvestment risk. The table below presents notional amounts and related
weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for the Company's investment
portfolio and long-term debt obligations.
 

 
     The Company mitigates default risk by attempting to invest in high credit
quality securities and by constantly positioning its portfolio to respond
appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment
issuer or guarantor. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with
active secondary or resale markets to ensure portfolio liquidity and maintains a
prudent amount of diversification.
 
     The Company has no cash flow exposure due to rate changes for its $310.0
million Convertible Subordinated Notes, Japanese yen-denominated bank loans or
on its capital lease obligations. The Company has cash flow exposure on the
interest expense related to its $100.0 million line of credit due to the rates
which vary with LIBOR. At June 30, 1998 the Company had no borrowings against
its line of credit.
 
     The Company conducts business on a global basis in several major
international currencies. As such, it is exposed to adverse or beneficial
movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company enters into foreign
currency forward contracts to minimize the impact of exchange rate fluctuations
on the value of yen-denominated assets and liabilities. The realized gains and
losses on these contracts are deferred and offset against realized and
unrealized gains and losses from the settlement of the related yen-denominated
receivables. At June 30, 1998, the notional amount of outstanding foreign
currency exchange contracts were
 

 
$36.0 million. The unrealized gain on the contracts at June 30, 1998 was $0.5
million. An adverse change in the yen of approximately 15% would result in an
unrealized loss of $4.8 million.
 
ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The Consolidated Financial Statements required by this Item are set forth
on the pages indicated at Item 14(a). The unaudited quarterly results of
operations for the Company's two most recent fiscal years are incorporated by
reference to pages 12 to 13 of this report under Item 6 "Selected Financial
Data".
 
ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
       DISCLOSURE
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Report in
that the Registrant will file a definitive proxy statement with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") within 120 days after the end of its
fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A, as promulgated by the Commission, for
its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held November 5, 1998 (the "Proxy
Statement"), and certain information included therein is incorporated herein by
reference. (The Compensation Committee Report and the stock performance graph of
the Registrant's Proxy Statement are expressly not incorporated by reference
herein.) For information regarding executive officers of the Company, see Part I
of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Company," which
information is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
     The information concerning the Company's directors required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to "Election of Directors" in the Company's Proxy
Statement.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Executive Compensation and Other
Information."
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Election of Directors" and
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management."
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions."
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a) 1. INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 
    2. INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 

 
     Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted since they are
     either not applicable, not required or the information is included
     elsewhere herein.
 
     3. See (c) of this Item 14, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     During the quarter ended June 30, 1998, the Company did not file any Forms
     8-K. However the following were filed subsequent to the end of the fiscal
     year.
 
     The Company filed a Form 8-K on July 10, 1998 making an Item 5 disclosure
     to disclose the Company's announcement of a restructuring.
 
     The Company filed a Form 8-K on August 14, 1998 making an Item 5 disclosure
     to disclose its year end press release.
 
     The Company filed a Form 8-K on September 16, 1998 making an Item 5
     disclosure to disclose that the Company had announced a stock repurchase.
 
(c) The list of Exhibits is set forth on page 56 of this Form 10-K and are
    incorporated herein by this reference.
 

 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
NOTE A: MERGER WITH ONTRAK
 
     On August 5, 1997, the stockholders of each Lam and OnTrak approved the
Merger and the issuance of Lam Common Stock under the Agreement and Plan of
Merger with OnTrak. The transaction has been accounted for as a pooling of
interests and was structured to qualify as a tax-free reorganization. Costs
associated with the Merger were approximately $17.7 million. Such expenses
include investment advisory fees, legal and accounting fees, financial printing
costs and other Merger-related costs.
 
     The following table shows revenues and net income of the separate companies
through the periods preceding the Merger:
 

 
NOTE B: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All inter-company
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
     Cash Equivalents: All highly liquid investments purchased with an original
maturity of three months or less are considered to be cash equivalents.
 
     Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in,
first-out method) or market. The Company evaluates the need to record
adjustments for impairment of inventory on a quarterly basis. Inventory in
excess of the Company's estimated usage requirements is written down to its
estimated net realizable value. Inherent in the estimates of net realizable
value are management estimates related to the Company's future manufacturing
schedules, customer demand, possible alternative uses and ultimate realization
of potentially excess inventory.
 
     Equipment and Leasehold Improvements: Equipment and leasehold improvements
are stated at cost. Equipment is depreciated by the straight-line method over
the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally three to seven years.
Leasehold improvements are amortized by the straight-line method over the
shorter of the life of the related asset or the term of the underlying lease.
Amortization of equipment under capital leases is included with depreciation.
 
     Revenue Recognition: Sales of the Company's products are generally recorded
upon shipment. Estimated costs to be incurred by the Company related to product
installation and warranty fulfillment are accrued at the date of shipment.
 
     Foreign Currency: The Company has foreign sales, service and manufacturing
operations. With respect to all foreign subsidiaries, excluding Japan, the
functional currency is the U.S. dollar and transaction and translation gains and
losses are included in net income (loss). The functional currency of the
Company's
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
Japanese subsidiary is the Japanese yen. Translation gains and losses related to
the Japan subsidiary are included as a component of stockholders' equity, but
have not been material through June 30, 1998.
 
     Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts: The Company may enter into foreign
currency forward exchange contracts to manage exposure related to certain
foreign currency commitments and balance sheet positions. The Company does not
enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Foreign
currency forward exchange contracts designated as effective hedges of firm
commitments are treated as hedges for accounting purposes. Gains and losses
related to qualified accounting hedges of firm commitments are deferred and are
recognized in income when the hedged transaction occurs.
 
     Income (Loss) Per Share: In February 1997, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ("FASB") released Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 128 "Earnings Per Share" ("FAS 128"), which was adopted during the quarter
ended December 31, 1997. FAS 128 replaced the calculation of primary and fully
diluted earnings per share with basic and diluted earnings per share. Unlike
primary earnings per share, basic earnings per share excludes any dilutive
effects of options and convertible securities. Diluted earnings per share is
very similar to the previously reported fully diluted earnings per share. For
fiscal 1998 and 1997, net loss per share was computed using only the weighted
average number of shares of Lam Common Stock outstanding during the period. For
fiscal 1996, basic net income per share was based on the weighted average number
of shares of Lam Common Stock outstanding during the period. For the same period
diluted net income per share further included the effect of stock options
outstanding which were dilutive and assumed the conversion of the Company's 6%
convertible subordinated debentures as if they were converted at the beginning
of that period. The 6% convertible subordinated debentures were called by the
Company during the quarter ended June 30, 1996. All net income (loss) amounts
for prior periods have been presented and, where necessary, restated to conform
to FAS 128 requirements. See Note K.
 
     Employee Stock Plans: The Company accounts for its stock option plans and
its employee stock purchase plans in accordance with the provisions of the
Accounting Principles Board's Opinion No. 25 "Accounting For Stock Issued to
Employees" ("APB 25"). In October 1995, the FASB released Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard No. 123, "Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation" ("FAS
123"), which provides an alternative to APB 25. As allowed under FAS 123, the
Company continues to account for its employee stock plans in accordance with the
provisions of APB 25. See Note L.
 
     Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ
from those estimates.
 
     Capital Structure: In February 1997, the FASB released Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 129, "Disclosure of Information about Capital
Structure" ("FAS 129"). FAS 129 consolidates the existing guidance regarding
disclosure relating to a company's capital structure and is effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 1997.
 
     Comprehensive Income: In June 1997, the FASB released Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("FAS
130"). FAS 130 establishes standards for the reporting and display of
comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general purpose
financial statements and is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 1997.
 
     Segment Information: In June 1997, the FASB released Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information" ("FAS 131"). FAS 131 will change the way companies report
selected segment information in annual and interim financial reports to
stockholders. FAS 131 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
1997.
 
     Derivative Instruments and Hedging: In June 1998, the FASB released
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities"

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
("FAS 133"). FAS 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts, and for derivatives used for hedging activities. It requires
that all derivatives be recognized either as an asset or liability, and measures
them at fair value. FAS 133 is effective for all fiscal quarters for fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 1999. The Company believes that the application
of the FAS 133 will not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
financial statements.
 
NOTE C: COMPANY AND INDUSTRY INFORMATION
 
     Lam Research Corporation is a leading supplier of technically complex thin
film processing equipment used in the primary stages of semiconductor
manufacturing. The Company's product offerings include single wafer plasma etch
systems with a wide range of applications, and CMP systems. The Company sells
its products primarily to large companies involved in the production of
semiconductors in the United States, Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific. Credit
evaluations are performed on all customers, and the Company usually does not
require collateral on sales.
 
     The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and has
experienced periodic downturns, which have had a material adverse effect on the
semiconductor industry's demand for semiconductor processing equipment,
including equipment manufactured and marketed by the Company. Certain of the
components and subassemblies included in the Company's products are obtained
from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. The Company believes
that alternative sources could be obtained and qualified to supply these
products. Nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could
have a severe near-term effect on the Company's operating results and could
result in damage to customer relationships.
 
     The Company entered into agreements totaling 6 billion yen and 9 billion
yen, respectively, in fiscal 1998 and 1997 to sell specific Japanese
yen-denominated receivables, subject to recourse provisions. At June 30, 1998
and 1997, $16,514,000 and $59,986,000 of these receivables, respectively, had
been sold to the bank, of which $11,581,000 and $39,924,000 at June 30, 1998 and
1997, respectively, remained uncollected by the bank and subject to recourse
provisions.
 
     During fiscal 1998, a single customer accounted for 12% of total sales.
During 1997 and 1996, no individual customer accounted for greater than 10% of
total sales.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
     The Company operates in four geographic regions, the United States, Europe,
Japan and Asia Pacific. The following is a summary of local operations by
geographic region at June 30:
 

 
     Sales between geographic areas are accounted for at prices that provide a
profit, and are in accordance with the rules and regulations of the respective
governing authorities. Total export revenue consisting of sales from the
Company's U.S. operating subsidiaries to non-affiliated customers by geographic
region for the three years ended June 30, are as follows:
 

 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
NOTE D: FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Investments at June 30 are comprised of the following:
 

 
     The difference between cost and fair value of available-for-sale securities
was not significant at June 30, 1998 and 1997.
 
     The amortized cost and estimated fair value of investments in debt
securities at June 30, by contractual maturities, are as follows:
 

 
     The carrying and fair values of the Company's financial instruments at June
30 are as follows:
 

 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
     The fair values of the Company's investments in debt securities and
restricted cash are based on quoted market prices at June 30, 1998 and 1997. The
fair value of the Company's auction rate preferreds is based upon par value. The
fair value of the Company's foreign currency forward contracts is estimated
based upon the yen exchange rate at June 30, 1998 and 1997. The fair value of
the Company's convertible subordinated debentures and the Company's other
long-term debt is estimated based on the current rates offered to the Company
for similar debt instruments of the same remaining maturities.
 
NOTE E: DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     The Company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the
impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of yen-denominated assets and
liabilities. A substantial portion of the forward contracts entered into have a
maturity of 90 days or less. The unrealized gains and losses on these contracts
are deferred and offset against unrealized gains and losses from the settlement
of the related yen-denominated assets and liabilities. The realized gains on
yen-forward contracts during fiscal 1998 were offset by losses on underlying
receivables.
 
     At June 30, 1998 and 1997, the notional amount of outstanding foreign
currency forward contracts were $35,967,000 and $30,651,000, respectively. Of
the total outstanding contracts at June 30, 1998 and 1997, $26,858,000 and
$13,828,000, respectively, were to hedge yen-denominated inter-company
receivables, and $8,599,000 and $17,776,000, respectively, were to hedge firm
commitments from customers in Japan. The unrealized gain on these forward
contracts at June 30, 1998 was $510,000. The unrealized loss on these contracts
at June 30, 1997 was $953,000.
 
NOTE F: INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories consist of the following at June 30:
 

 
NOTE G: PREPAID EXPENSES AND OTHER ASSETS
 
     Prepaid expenses and other assets consist of the following at June 30:
 

 
     During fiscal 1997, the Company recorded bad debt expense of $6,550,000
relating to the at-risk receivables from a Thailand customer. The estimated net
realizable value of the collateral which the Company holds related to these
receivables was included in prepaid expenses and other assets at June 30, 1997.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
NOTE H: EQUIPMENT AND LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS
 
     Equipment and leasehold improvements consist of the following at June 30:
 

 
NOTE I: ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER LIABILITIES
 
     The significant components of accrued expenses and other liabilities
consist of the following at June 30:
 

 
NOTE J: LINE OF CREDIT, LONG-TERM DEBT AND CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS
 
     Long-term debt and capital lease obligations at June 30 consist of the
following:
 

 
     During August 1997, Lam completed an offering of $310.0 million of
Convertible Subordinated Notes ("the Notes"), which mature on September 1, 2002.
Interest on the five percent Notes is payable on September 1 and March 1 of each
year commencing March 1, 1998. The Notes are convertible into shares of Lam
Common Stock at any time prior to the close of business on the maturity date,
unless previously redeemed, at a conversion price of $87.77 per share, subject
to adjustment. The Notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of
the Company, upon at least 20 days notice, at redemption prices starting at
102.0% and at diminishing prices thereafter, plus accrued interest, except that
the Notes may not be redeemed prior to September 6, 2000, unless the closing
price of the Common Stock is at least 130% of the conversion price for at least
20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending within
five trading days
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
prior to the notice of redemption. The Notes are unsecured and subordinated in
right of payment in full to all existing and future Senior indebtedness of the
Company. Expenses associated with the offering of approximately $9.0 million
were deferred in other assets and are being ratably amortized over the term of
the Notes.
 
     During the third quarter of fiscal 1998, the Company renegotiated its
Synthetic Lease Agreement (the "Synthetic Lease Agreement"), relating to certain
buildings at its Fremont campus, to obtain more favorable terms and to reduce
the amount of the obligation. As part of the collateral restrictions of the
Synthetic Lease Agreement, the Company is required to maintain $51,357,000 of
cash in restricted specified interest-bearing accounts through March 2003
(unless the Synthetic Lease Agreement is otherwise terminated or the amount of
maintained cash is reduced, as the underlying obligation is paid down).
 
     At June 30, 1998, the Company had a total of $100.0 million available under
a syndicated bank line of credit. The line of credit was renegotiated in April
1998 and is due to expire in April 2001. Borrowings under the syndicated bank
line of credit bear interest at 0.45% to 0.75% over LIBOR, and are subject to
Lam's compliance with financial and other covenants. The credit agreement
includes terms requiring satisfaction of certain financial ratios, interest
coverage, maximum leverage, senior indebtedness, tangible net worth, minimum
profitability, and also restricts the Company from paying dividends. At June 30,
1998, the Company received waivers for its financial covenants under the credit
facility, and has since amended the applicable covenant requirements of its line
of credit and amended the line of credit borrowing rates to 0.55% to 0.95% over
LIBOR.
 
     At June 30, 1998, the Company received waivers for its financial covenants
under one of its Japanese yen-denominated bank loans. The Company is negotiating
a replacement facility for the approximately $12.0 million yen-denominated loan.
The Company anticipates that the terms of the new facility will be equal to or
better than the terms of its present Japanese yen-denominated bank loan and that
it shall be compliance with any financial covenants thereof.
 
     At June 30, 1998, future maturities of long-term debt and minimum payments
for capital lease obligations are as follows:
 

 
     Long-term debt and capital lease obligations are collateralized by
equipment included in equipment and leasehold improvements, with a cost and
accumulated depreciation and amortization of $13,872,000 and $(9,674,000),
respectively, at June 30, 1998, and $56,671,000 and $(22,698,000), respectively,
at June 30, 1997.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
NOTE K: NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE
 
     The Company's basic and diluted net loss per share for the years ended June
30, as calculated according to FAS 128 are as follows:
 

 
     Options and convertible securities, respectively, were outstanding during
1998 and 1997, but were excluded from the computation of diluted net loss per
common share because the effect in years with a net loss would be antidilutive.
Options to purchase approximately 220,000 shares of common stock were
outstanding during 1996, but were not included in the computation of diluted net
income per common share because the options' exercise price was greater than the
average market price of the common shares and, therefore, the effect would be
antidilutive.
 
NOTE L: INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLANS AND STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
 
     The Company has adopted incentive stock option plans that provide for the
granting to qualified employees of incentive stock options to purchase shares of
Common Stock. In addition, the plans permit the granting of nonstatutory stock
options to paid consultants and employees, and provides for the automatic grant
of nonstatutory stock options to outside directors. The option price is
determined by the Board of Directors, but in no event will it be less than the
fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on the date of grant (no less
than 85% of the fair market value at the date of grant in the case of
nonstatutory options). Options granted under the plans vest over a period
determined by the Board of Directors. Under the automatic grant program, each
outside director receives an option immediately exercisable for 6,000 shares of
Common Stock during January of each year during which the outside director
serves, with the exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant.
 
     OnTrak had adopted incentive and nonstatutory stock option plans ("the
Employee Plans"). Incentive stock option and nonstatutory stock option grants
under the Employee Plans must be at prices of at least 100% of the fair market
value of the stock on the date of grant. The options generally vest at the rate
of 25% per year. Upon completion of the Merger, each OnTrak option was exchanged
for 0.83 of an option to purchase Lam Common Stock.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
     OnTrak also adopted a director stock option plan ("the Director Plan") and
reserved 103,750 shares of Common Stock for issuance thereunder. The Director
Plan provided for the grant of nonstatutory stock options to non-employee
directors of OnTrak pursuant to an automatic, nondiscretionary grant mechanism.
Upon completion of the Merger, each OnTrak option was exchanged for 0.83 of an
option to purchase Lam Common Stock.
 
     During fiscal year 1996, OnTrak issued an option to purchase 664,000 shares
of common stock to OnTrak's Chief Executive Officer at an exercise price of
$20.78 per share. In November 1996, following the approval of the 1996 Equity
Incentive Plan by OnTrak's stockholders, this option was canceled and reissued
with identical terms.
 
     A summary of incentive stock option plan transactions follows:
 

 
     At June 30, 1998, 7,489,265 shares of Common Stock were reserved for future
issuance under the stock option plans and options to purchase 2,828,140 shares
were exercisable at a range of $0.28-$62.88.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
     Outstanding and excercisable options presented by price range at June 30,
1998 are as follows:
 

 
     During fiscal 1998, the stockholders of the Company approved the 1997 Stock
Incentive Plan, which provides for the grant of stock options, restricted stock,
deferred stock and performance share awards to participating officers,
directors, employees, consultants and advisors of the Company and its
subsidiaries. Initially, 3,000,000 shares were reserved for issuance. The number
of shares to be issued will automatically be increased each calendar quarter
subject to certain provisions and restrictions, but will in no event exceed
5,000,000 shares.
 
     During fiscal 1996, the Company adopted a Performance-Based Restricted
Stock Plan designed to reward executives based upon the achievement of certain
predetermined goals. The grant is based on the fair market value of the
Company's Common Stock at the end of the quarter, provided the predetermined
goals are met. The Company authorized 150,000 shares to be reserved for issuance
under the Performance-Based Stock Plan. At June 30, 1998, 127,394 shares remain
available under this plan.
 
     Common Stock is sold to employees under the 1984 Employee Stock Purchase
Plan ("ESPP"). During fiscal 1998, the Company authorized an additional 350,000
shares to be reserved for issuance under the 1984 ESPP. Another 166,000 shares
were reserved upon the completion of the Merger with OnTrak. The purchase price
per share is the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on
the first or last day of a six-month offering period. A total of 1,763,024
shares of the Company's Common Stock were issued under the Plans through June
30, 1998, at prices ranging from $2.65 to $43.03 per share. At June 30, 1998,
440,230 shares remain available for purchase.
 
     As permitted by FAS 123, the Company has elected to follow APB 25, and
related Interpretations, in accounting for stock-based awards to employees.
Under APB 25, the Company generally recorded nominal compensation expense with
respect to such awards which are generally granted at market value on the date
of grant.
 
     Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) and net income (loss) per
share is required by FAS 123 for awards granted after June 30, 1995, as if the
Company had accounted for its stock-based awards to employees under the fair
value method of FAS 123. The fair value of the Company's stock-based awards to
employees was estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The
Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the
fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully
transferable. In addition, the Black-Scholes model requires the input of highly
subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility. Because
the Company's stock-based awards to employees have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
management's opinion the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable
single measure of the fair value of the Company's stock-based awards to
employees. The fair value of the Company's stock-based awards to employees was
estimated assuming no expected dividends and the following weighted-average
assumptions:
 

 
     The weighted average fair value of options granted during 1998, 1997 and
1996 was $20.59, $10.55 and $13.45 per share, respectively. The weighted average
fair value of shares granted under the ESPP during fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996
was $12.85, $7.62 and $9.71 per share, respectively.
 
     For pro forma purposes, the estimated fair value of the Company's
stock-based awards to employees is amortized over the option's vesting period
(for options) and the respective six-month purchase period (for stock purchases
under the ESPP). The Company's pro forma information follows:
 

 
     FAS 123 is applicable only to awards granted subsequent to June 30, 1995.
As a result, its pro forma effect will not be fully reflected until fiscal 1999.
 
NOTE M: PROFIT SHARING PLAN AND BENEFIT PLAN
 
     During fiscal 1995, the Company revised the profit sharing plan for its
employees in North America. Distributions to employees by the Company are made
quarterly based upon a percentage of base salary provided that a threshold level
of the Company's financial and performance goals are met. Upon achievement of
the threshold, the profit sharing is awarded based upon performance against
certain corporate financial and operating goals. Prior to the Merger, OnTrak
maintained a profit sharing plan whereby an aggregate amount of 5% of OnTrak's
operating profits, as defined, were paid semi-annually. Subsequent to the
Merger, the Company has one profit sharing plan. During fiscal 1998, the Company
did not incur any profit sharing plan expense. Profit sharing plan expense for
fiscal 1997 and 1996 was $176,000 and $14,783,000, respectively.
 
     The Company maintains a 401(k) retirement savings plan for its full-time
employees in North America. Each participant in the plan may elect to contribute
2% to 15% of his or her annual salary to the plan, subject to statutory
limitations. Prior to October 1, 1995, each participant could elect to
contribute 2% to 20% of his or her annual salary to the plan, subject to
statutory limitations. Beginning January 1, 1994, the Company began to match
employee contributions to the plan at the rate of 50% of the first 6% of salary
contributed. Prior to the Merger, OnTrak maintained an employee savings and
retirement plan qualified under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The
OnTrak plan allowed participants to contribute up to 14% of the total
compensation that would otherwise be paid to them by OnTrak, not to exceed the
maximum allowed by the applicable Internal Revenue Service guidelines. OnTrak
matched 100% of the salary deferral contributions made by each participating
employee, up to a maximum of 6% of total employee compensation. OnTrak's
contributions were 25%, 50% and 100% vested after an employee's second, third
and fourth years of service,
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
respectively. The Company match expense for fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 was
$4,964,000, $5,205,000 and $4,213,000, respectively.
 
NOTE N: LICENSING/ROYALTY AGREEMENTS
 
     The Company receives royalty income from TEL under a licensing agreement
signed in fiscal 1987, and extended in fiscal 1992 and 1996. For the years ended
June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company earned $1,336,000 $11,689,000 and
$20,713,000, respectively, of royalty income from TEL. The current royalty
agreement, which was due to expire December 31, 1996, was renegotiated at a
reduced royalty rate (5% to 1%), which went into effect January 1, 1997.
 
     The Company also receives royalty income from Sumitomo. Royalty income
earned from Sumitomo for fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 amounted to $723,000,
$973,000 and $2,101,000, respectively.
 
NOTE O: COMMITMENTS
 
     The Company leases its administrative, R&D, and manufacturing facilities,
regional sales/service offices and certain equipment under noncancelable
operating leases, which expire at various dates through 2020. Certain of the
Company's labs and other equipment are also supplied under operating leases. All
of the Company's facility leases for buildings located at its Fremont,
California headquarters and certain operating leases provide the Company an
option to extend the leases for additional periods. Certain of the Company's
other facility leases provide for periodic rent increases based on the general
rate of inflation.
 
     Future minimum lease payments for the years ended June 30 and in the
aggregate under operating leases consist of the following:
 

 
     During fiscal 1998, Company renegotiated its Synthetic Lease Agreement,
relating to certain buildings at its Fremont campus, to obtain more favorable
terms and to reduce the amount of the obligation. As part of the collateral
restrictions of the Synthetic Lease Agreement, the Company is required to
provide $44,402,000 as guaranteed residual at the end of the lease term.
 
     Total rental expense for all leases amounted to approximately $44,737,000,
$46,728,000 and $36,079,000, for the years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.
 
     The Company has subleased some of its buildings and is exploring subleasing
others, and currently expects to receive income of approximately $1,977,000,
$1,986,000, $1,983,000, $1,632,000 and $470,000 for the fiscal years 1999, 2000,
2001, 2002 and 2003, respectively, which will offset the above noted minimum
lease payments.
 
     For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1998 and 1997, the Company received
income totaling $1,752,000 and $405,000, respectively, on its subleased
facilities.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
NOTE P: INCOME TAXES
 
     Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following:
 

 
     Actual current tax liabilities are lower than reflected above for fiscal
years 1997 and 1996 by $1,732,000 and $2,940,000, respectively, for the stock
option deduction benefits recorded as a credit to stockholders' equity.
 
     Under FAS No. 109, deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes.
Significant components of the Company's net deferred tax assets as of June 30,
are as follows:
 

 
     Approximately $5.9 million of the valuation allowance for deferred taxes is
attributable to stock option deductions, the benefit of which will be credited
to equity when realized.
 
     Realization of the Company's net deferred tax assets is dependent on future
taxable income. The Company believes that it is more likely than not such assets
will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by
market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at this time.
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
     At June 30, 1998, the Company has federal and state tax credit
carryforwards of approximately $36.0 million, of which approximately $21.0
million will expire in varying amounts between 2000 and 2013. The remaining
balance of $15.0 million of tax carryforwards may be carried forward
indefinitely. A valuation allowance has been provided for a portion of the
deferred tax assets related to the carryforwards.
 
     A reconciliation of income tax expense provided at the federal statutory
rate (35% in 1998, 1997 and 1996) to income tax expense follows:
 

 
     Income before income taxes from foreign operations for fiscal years 1998,
1997 and 1996 was $11,462,000, $31,621,000 and $42,216,000, respectively. In
addition, the Company received royalty and other income from foreign sources of
$2,059,000, $12,662,000 and $22,814,000, in fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively, which is subject to foreign tax withholding.
 
NOTE Q: RESTRUCTURINGS
 
     During the quarters ended March 31, 1998 and June 30, 1998, the Company
announced plans to restructure its operations to focus more on its core etch and
CMP product groups, and to exit its FPD and CVD operations. As a result of the
restructurings, the Company reduced its global workforce by approximately 28%
and downsized and consolidated its manufacturing operations and facilities. The
Company recorded a total restructuring charge of $148,858,000 for severance
compensation and benefits, the write-off of facilities, fixed assets and excess
and obsolete inventory and other exit costs. Of the total restructuring charge,
$31,933,000 relates to additional excess and obsolete inventory write-offs for
the affected product lines and has therefore been classified as a component of
cost of goods sold. At June 30, 1998, $48,443,000 of the charge remains accrued
on the balance sheet and the Company has made $11,284,000 of cash payments,
relating primarily to severance, benefits and rent. At June 30, 1998, the
Company has approximately $46,000,000 of future cash payments relating to the
restructurings. The Company anticipates that there will be further charges
against the restructuring reserves established in fiscal 1998 during fiscal
1999, as the Company completes its restructuring program.
 
     Restructuring activity:
 

 
     During the first quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company restructured its
operations by consolidating its previous business unit structure into a more
centralized functional organization. As a result of the restructuring, and in
response to industry and market conditions, the Company reduced its work force
by approximately 11%. The Company recorded a restructuring charge of $9.0
million for costs related primarily to
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
severance compensation and consolidation of facilities. At June 30, 1998, $1.3
million remains in accrued liabilities, relating primarily to executive
severance and remaining lease payments on unused facilities. As of June 30,
1998, the Company has made $6.7 million of cash payments relating to the 1997
restructuring.
 
NOTE R: RIGHTS PLAN
 
     On January 23, 1997, the Company adopted a Rights Plan. Pursuant to the
Rights Plan, rights were distributed as a dividend at the rate of one right for
each share of Lam Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share ("Right"), of the
Company held by stockholders of record as of the close of business on January
31, 1997. The Rights will expire on January 31, 2007, unless redeemed or
exchanged. Under the Rights Plan, each Right initially will entitle the
registered holder to buy one unit of a share of preferred stock for $250.00. The
Rights will become exercisable only if a person or group (other than
stockholders currently owning 15% of Lam's Common Stock) acquires beneficial
ownership of 15 percent or more of Lam's Common Stock, or commences a tender or
exchange offer upon consummation of which such person or group would
beneficially own 15% or more of Lam's Common Stock.
 
NOTE S: RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     Subsequent to June 30, 1998, the Company withdrew from a limited
partnership ("the Partnership") and received a payment of $2.8 million for its
portion of uninvested capital and retained by assignment an indirect interest in
the Partnership investments as of the date of the Company's withdrawal. During
fiscal 1997, the Company invested $4.0 million for a 32% interest in the
Partnership. The Partnership was organized for the purpose of investing in
emerging technology companies to seek income and gains to the Partnership. Three
of the Company's directors are members of the limited liability company that is
the general partner of the Partnership. The Company has accounted for its
investment in the partnership under the equity method. Accordingly, the Company
adjusted the recorded value of its investment for its share (32%) of the
Partnership's net income or loss. The Company's portion of the Partnership's net
income was not material for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1998 or 1997.
 
NOTE T: PURCHASED TECHNOLOGY FOR R&D
 
     During 1998, the Company purchased a non-exclusive, worldwide license from
Trikon Technologies, Inc. ("Trikon") for its MORI source technology. The Company
recorded a charge for the purchase of technology for R&D of $12.1 million for
the license and for the purchase of a Trikon system to be utilized for R&D. The
technology was acquired for R&D projects and its future uses are unknown at this
time. An additional $5.0 million for the license will be due in fiscal 1999.
Royalty payments not to exceed $1.0 million and $4.0 million, respectively, will
be due in fiscal years 1999 and thereafter.
 
NOTE U: LITIGATION
 
     In October 1993, Varian brought suit against the Company in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California, seeking monetary
damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's alleged infringement of
certain patents held by Varian. The Company has asserted defenses of invalidity
and unenforceability of the patents that are the subject of the lawsuit, as well
as non-infringement of such patents by the Company's products. No trial date is
currently scheduled. While litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties and
no assurance can be given that Lam will prevail in such litigation or will
obtain a license under such patents on commercially reasonable terms, or at all,
if such patents are held valid and infringed by the Company's products, the
Company believes that the Varian lawsuit will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's operating results or the Company's financial position.
 
     In addition, the Company is from time to time notified by various parties
that it may be in violation of certain patents. In such cases, it is the
Company's intention to seek negotiated licenses where it is considered
 

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                                 JUNE 30, 1998
 
appropriate. The outcome of these matters will not, in management's opinion,
have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position,
operating results or cash flow statements.
 
NOTE V: SUBSEQUENT EVENT
 
     On September 14, 1998, the Company announced that its Board of Directors
had authorized the repurchase, at management's discretion, of up to 368,000
shares of Lam Common Stock from the public market or in private purchases. The
shares will be used to offset dilution caused by issuance in the near-term of
shares under the ESPP. Subsequently, on September 15, 1998, the Company
repurchased 368,000 shares of Lam Common Stock at prices between $10 5/16 and
$10 13/16.
 

 
               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
Board of Directors
Lam Research Corporation
Fremont, California
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lam
Research Corporation as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended June 30, 1998. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 14(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits. We did not audit the financial statements of
OnTrak Systems, Inc. which reflect total assets constituting 6.7% for 1997 and
6.0% for 1996 of the related consolidated financial statement totals, and which
reflect net income of approximately 7.2% of the related consolidated financial
statement totals for the two year period ended June 30, 1997. Those statements
were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to us, and our
opinion, insofar as it relates to data included for OnTrak Systems, Inc., is
based solely on the report of the other auditors.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the consolidated financial position of Lam Research Corporation at June 30, 1998
and 1997, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 1998, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.
 
                                          /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 
San Jose, California
July 23, 1998
Except for the Note "Subsequent Event"
as to which this date is September 14, 1998
 

 
           REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS FOR ONTRAK SYSTEMS, INC.
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of OnTrak Systems, Inc.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated
statements of operations, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of OnTrak Systems, Inc.
and its subsidiaries (not presented separately herein) at June 30, 1997 and
1996, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
two years in the period ended June 30, 1997, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our
audits of these statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.
 
                                          /s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
 
San Jose, California
July 24, 1997 except for Note 2
which is as of August 5, 1997
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
 
                                          By:      /s/ JAMES W. BAGLEY
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                      James W. Bagley,
                                                   Chairman of the Board
 
Dated: September 24, 1998
 

 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints James W. Bagley and Mercedes Johnson, jointly and
severally, his attorneys-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him
in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Report of Form 10-K,
and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or
substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 

 

 
                 SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                            LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Included in the Balance Sheet under the caption "Other assets." Represents
    allowance relating to the write-off of certain at-risk receivables.
 
(2) Represents write-off of bad debt relating to certain at-risk receivables.
 
(3) Represents specific customer accounts written off.
 
(4) Represents related installation and warranty.
 
(5) Represents recovery of bad debt expense.
 

 
                            LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
 
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998
 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

 

 

 

 
- ---------------
 (1) Incorporated by reference to Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to the
     Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-32160) filed with
     the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 10, 1990.
 
 (2) Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended April 3, 1988.
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the fiscal year ended June 30, 1988.
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended December 31, 1989.
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended December 31, 1991.
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993.
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the fiscal year ended June 30, 1995.
 
 (8) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended December 31, 1995.
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended March 31, 1996.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996.
 
(11) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended September 30, 1996
 
(12) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended December 31, 1996.
 
(13) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated February
     4, 1997.
 
(14) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated March
     31, 1997.
 
(15) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended March 31, 1997.
 
(16) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997.
 
(17) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended September 30, 1997.
 
(18) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on Form S-3 dated October
     31, 1997.
 
(19) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended December 31, 1997.
 
(20) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on Form S-8 dated January
     30, 1998.
 
(21) Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended March 31, 1998.
 

