10-K


f01598e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended June 27, 2004

OR

[

] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM

TO

Commission file number 0-12933

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Delaware

94-2634797

(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

4650 Cushing Parkway

Fremont, California 94538

(Address of Principal Executive Offices including Zip Code)

(510) 572-0200

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, Par Value $0.001 Per Share

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [   ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes [X] No [   ]

The aggregate market value of the Registrant’s Common Stock, $0.001 par value,
held by non-affiliates of the Registrant, as of December 28, 2003, the last
business day of the second fiscal quarter was $2,833,407,363. Common Stock
held by each officer and director and by each person who owns 5% or more of the
outstanding Common Stock has been excluded from this computation in that such
persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status
is not necessarily a conclusive determination of such status for other
purposes.

As of August 29, 2004, the Registrant had 135,517,692 outstanding shares
of Common Stock.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Parts of Registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on November 4, 2004 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K Report. (The Report of the Audit Committee,
Compensation Committee, and the Comparative Stock Performance graph of the
Registrant’s Proxy Statement are expressly not incorporated by reference
herein.)

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

2004 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K



PART I

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

With the exception of historical facts, the statements contained in this
discussion are forward-looking statements, which are subject to the Safe Harbor
provisions created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements
that relate to our future revenue, changing customer requirements, product development, demand, acceptance and
market share, competitiveness, gross margins, levels of research and
development (R&D), outsourcing plans and operating expenses, our management’s
plans and objectives for our current and future operations, the effects of our
restructurings and consolidation of operations and facilities, our ability to
complete contemplated restructurings or consolidations on time or within
anticipated costs, the levels of customer spending or R&D activities, general
economic conditions, and the sufficiency of financial resources to support
future operations and capital expenditures. Such statements are based on
current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in
condition, significance, value and effect, including those discussed below and
under the heading “Risk Factors” within the section of this report entitled
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and other documents we file from time to time with the
Securities and Exchange Commission such as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q
and our current reports on

Form 8-K

. Such risks, uncertainties and changes in
condition, significance, value and effect could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed herein and in ways not readily foreseeable.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date hereof and of information currently
and reasonably known. We undertake no obligation to release the results of any
revisions to these forward-looking statements which may be made to reflect
events or circumstances which occur after the date hereof or to reflect the
occurrence or effect of anticipated or unanticipated events. All references to
fiscal years apply to our fiscal years, which ended June 27, 2004, June 29,
2003, and June 30, 2002.

Item 1.

Business

Lam Research Corporation (Lam or the Company), a Delaware corporation, was
founded in 1980 and is headquartered in Fremont, California. The mailing
address for our principal executive offices is 4650 Cushing Parkway, Fremont,
California 94538, and our telephone number is (510) 572-0200. Additional
information about Lam is available on our web site at http://www.lamrc.com. Our
Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and Forms 8-K are available online at the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) web site on the Internet. The address of that
site is http://www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge the Forms
10-K, Forms 10-Q, and Forms 8-K and any amendments to those reports on our
corporate web site at http://www.lamrc.com as soon as reasonably possible after
we file them with or furnish them to the SEC.

We design, manufacture, market, and service semiconductor processing
equipment used in the fabrication of integrated circuits and are recognized as
a major supplier of such equipment to the worldwide semiconductor industry.
Semiconductor wafers are subjected to a complex series of process steps that
result in the simultaneous creation of many individual integrated circuits. Our
products selectively remove portions of various films from the wafer to create
semiconductors. We leverage our expertise in these areas to develop
intellectual property (IP) for integrated processing solutions.

Etch processes, which are repeated numerous times during the wafer
fabrication cycle, are required to manufacture every type of semiconductor
device produced today. To etch devices designed at current and future
technology nodes, our etch systems employ Lam’s TCP™ high density and Dual
Frequency Confined™ (DFC™) medium density plasma sources.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we decided to cease further
investment in chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) systems development. This
decision was based on the conclusion that the product did not demonstrate
sufficient advantages to garner the market share necessary for adequate returns
on further investment.



Etch Process

The etch process defines linewidths and other microscopic and
sub-microscopic features on integrated circuits. Plasma etching was developed
to meet the demand for device geometries smaller than 3 microns. Plasma
consists of charged and neutral species that react with exposed portions of the
wafer surface to remove dielectric, metal, or polysilicon material and produce
the finely delineated features and patterns of an integrated circuit.

Advanced integrated circuit manufacturing requires etch systems capable of
creating 130/110 nm features for current-generation products and below 110 nm
for future semiconductor products. At this time, the technology node transition
accompanies a conversion from aluminum to copper conductive lines to enhance
device speeds and the implementation of more fragile insulating dielectric
materials (low k and porous low k). In addition to these changes, advanced
manufacturing facilities are now producing integrated circuits on 300 mm (12
inch) silicon wafers while other facilities use wafer diameters of 200 mm (8
inch) and smaller. Semiconductor manufacturers will continue to require more
precise control over the etching process in order to accommodate these
decreasing linewidths and increasing wafer diameters. One clear focus for the
differentiation of Lam’s products and services from those of our competitors
will be the extent to which we can meet these changing process control
requirements.

Our
etch products and services are defined around the
Alliance

®

and 2300™
Etch Series platforms.

Dielectric Etch Products

Exelan

®

, Exelan High Performance, Exelan HPT, and 2300 Exelan Systems.

The
Exelan family of products utilizes Lam’s patented DFC technology to create
smaller feature sizes and mixes sequential etch process steps in the same
chamber. These integrated capabilities developed by Lam improve productivity
and lower the cost of ownership for our customers. Exelan was introduced in
July 1999 to define the structures required for manufacturing copper conductive
lines in semiconductors utilizing traditional insulating dielectric films.
Exelan High Performance, introduced in 2001, extends Exelan’s capabilities for
etching newer low k insulating dielectric films. Exelan HPT, introduced early
in 2002, targets sub-130 nm geometries. The 2300 Exelan family of products
addresses process requirements to sub-65 nm for 200 mm and 300 mm wafer sizes.

Conductor Etch Products

TCP

®

9400 and TCP

®

9600 Series and 2300 Versys

®

Series Systems.

The first
TCP products were introduced in late 1992. They use Lam’s patented Transformer
Coupled Plasma™ source technology, a high-density, low-pressure plasma source
that can etch features well below 110 nm. For 200 mm wafer sizes, we offer the
TCP

®

9400PTX and TCP

®

9400DFM for silicon etch applications and the TCP

®

9600PTX and TCP

®

9600DFM for metal etch applications. These systems are used in
the production of a broad range of advanced logic and memory devices with
feature sizes down to 130/110 nm.

The 2300 Versys system for etching silicon and metal films employs a
scaled design of TCP technology to address leading-edge device structure
requirements. The 2300 Versys system has the capability to process 200 or 300
mm wafer sizes. The 2300 Versys Star™ silicon etch system enables sequential
step tuning of gas flow and wafer temperature, which provides the critical
dimension uniformity required for sub-65 nm geometries.

Lam 2300 compatible process chambers can be converted within our
customers’ facilities from 200 mm to 300 mm, which has the advantage of
providing customers with greater flexibility and lower costs. This capability,
combined with an overall system footprint comparable to 200 mm systems, allows
semiconductor manufacturers to develop integrated circuits using 200 mm wafers
instead of expensive 300 mm wafers and later scale up to 300 mm wafer
processing.



Clean Products

Synergy
cleaning products.

Synergy products combine DSS™ technology and
Chemical Mechanical Cleaning™ (CMC™) technology to perform mechanical and
chemical cleaning in a single-step process. The Synergy Integra™ incorporates
Synergy’s cleaning technology with a platform that can be integrated with other
suppliers’ CMP systems. Certain integrated systems in the industry are the
result of development relationships between Lam and CMP suppliers. The Synergy
standalone clean system is used to clean wafers both before and after a range
of semiconductor processing steps.

2300, Chemical Mechanical Cleaning, CMC, DFC, Dual Frequency Confined,
Synergy, Synergy Integra, TCP,
Transformer Coupled Plasma, and Versys Star are trademarks of Lam Research
Corporation. Alliance, DSS, Exelan, the Lam logo, Lam Research, TCP

®

9400, TCP

®

9400DFM, TCP

®

9400PTX, TCP

®

9600, TCP

®

9600DFM, TCP

®

9600PTX, and Versys
are registered trademarks of Lam Research Corporation.

Research and Development

The market for semiconductor capital equipment is characterized by rapid
technological change and product innovation. Our ability to maintain
competitive advantage depends in part on our continued and timely development
of new products and enhancements to existing products. Accordingly, we devote a
significant portion of our personnel and financial resources to R&D programs
and seek to maintain close and responsive relationships with our customers and
suppliers.

Our R&D expenses during fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002 were $170.5 million,
$160.5 million, and $179.2 million, or 18.2%, 21.3%, and 19.0% of total
revenue, respectively. Expenditures are targeted at continued development of
advanced etch applications and enhancements to our existing products, including
developing the technology necessary to support our customers’ transition to
smaller feature sizes, new insulating materials, copper-based devices, and
300-mm wafers.

We expect to continue to make substantial investments in R&D to meet our
customers’ product needs and enhance our competitive position.

Marketing, Sales, and Service

Our marketing and sales efforts are focused on building long-term
relationships with our customers. These efforts are supported by a team of
product marketing and sales professionals as well as equipment and process
engineers that work closely with individual customers to develop solutions to
their processing needs. We maintain ongoing support relationships with our
customers and have an extensive network of field service personnel in place
throughout the United States, Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. We believe that
comprehensive support programs and close working relationships with customers
are essential to maintaining high customer satisfaction and our competitiveness
in the marketplace. We have 37 sales and support locations around the world,
through which technical personnel sell and/or service our products.

We offer standard warranties for our systems that generally run for a
period of 12 months from system acceptance, not to exceed 14 months from
shipment of the system to the customer. The warranty provides that systems
shall be free from defects in material and workmanship and conform to our
published specifications. The warranty is limited to repair of the defect or
replacement with new or like-new equivalent goods and is valid when the buyer
provides prompt notification within the warranty period of the claimed defect
or non-conformity and also makes the items available for inspection and repair.
We also make extended warranty packages available for our customers to purchase
as desired.



Export Sales

A significant portion of our sales and operations occur outside
the United States and, therefore, may be subject to
certain risks, including tariffs and other barriers, difficulties in staffing
and managing non-U.S. operations, adverse tax consequences, exchange rate
fluctuations, and difficulties in accounts receivable collection. There can be
no assurance that any of these factors will not have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial position, and results of operations and cash flows.

Customers

Our customers include many of the world’s leading semiconductor
manufacturers. Increasingly, customers have established joint ventures,
alliances and technology licensing arrangements, which has potential to
positively and negatively impact our competitive position. In fiscal year 2004,
revenues, on a standalone basis, from ST Microelectronics accounted for
approximately 15% of total revenues, and, in fiscal year 2003, revenues from
Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd., accounted for approximately 15% of total
revenues. No individual customer accounted for more than 10% of our total
revenue in fiscal 2002.

A material reduction in orders from our customers in the semiconductor
industry could adversely affect our results of operations and projected
financial condition. Our business depends upon the expenditures of
semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and
anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and the availability of
equipment capacity to support that demand.

Backlog

Company unshipped orders backlog, at any point in time,
includes orders for systems, spares, and services where written customer requests have been accepted and the
delivery of products or provision of services is anticipated within the next 12
months. Our policy is to make adjustments to our backlog to reflect, among
other things, customer delivery date changes as well as order cancellations. We
schedule production of our systems based upon purchase orders in backlog and
our customers’ delivery requirements. Included in our systems backlog are
orders for which written requests have been accepted, prices have been agreed upon, and shipment of systems
is expected within one year. The spares and services backlog includes customer
orders for products that have not yet shipped and for services that have not
yet been provided. Where specific spare parts and customer service purchase
contracts do not contain discrete delivery dates, we use volume estimates at
the contract price and over the contract period, not exceeding 12 months, in
calculating backlog amounts.

As of June 27, 2004 and June 29, 2003, our backlog was approximately $403
million and $239 million, respectively. Generally, orders for our products and
services are subject to cancellation by our customers with limited penalties.
Because some orders are received for shipments in the same quarter and due to
possible customer changes in delivery dates and cancellations of orders, our
backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of business
volumes or actual revenue levels for succeeding periods.

Manufacturing

Our manufacturing operations consist mainly of assembling and testing
components, sub-assemblies, and modules that are then integrated into finished
systems prior to shipment to our customers. Most of the assembly and testing of
our products is conducted in cleanroom environments.

Starting in fiscal 2002, we entered into agreements with third parties to
outsource certain elements of our manufacturing, production warehousing, and
logistics functions. We continue to believe that entering into these
outsourcing contracts provides us more flexibility to scale our operations up
or down in a more timely and cost effective manner, enabling us to respond to
the cyclical nature of our business. We believe that we have selected reputable
providers and are securing their performance on terms documented in written
contracts. However, it is possible that one or more of these providers could
fail to perform as we expect, and such failure could have an adverse impact on
our business. In addition, the expanded role of outsource providers has
required us to implement changes to our existing supply chain management
functions, including the adoption of new procedures to effectively manage
performance risk. We believe that we have implemented adequate oversight
procedures. Even so, any delay or failure in the implementation of our
operational changes could adversely affect our customer relationships and



have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Refer
to Note 15 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 herein,
for further information concerning our outsourcing commitments.

As is often the case in the high technology industry, due to limited
availability of suppliers of certain proprietary or patented technologies, a
minority of the components and subassemblies included in our products are only
obtained from a single supplier. We believe that, in many cases, alternative
sources could be obtained and qualified to supply these products. Nevertheless,
a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could have an adverse
short-term effect on our operating results and could unfavorably impact our
customer relationships.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the
management of hazardous materials. We are currently not aware of any pending
notices of violation, fines, lawsuits, or investigations arising from
environmental matters that would have any material effect on our business. We
believe that we are in general compliance with these regulations and that we
have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing) all necessary
environmental permits to conduct our business. Nevertheless, the failure to
comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed
on us, suspension of production, and cessation of our operations or reduction
in our customers’ acceptance of our products. These regulations could require
us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant equipment, or to
incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Our
failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances
could subject us to future liabilities.

Employees

As of August 29, 2004, we had approximately 2,200 regular full-time
employees.

Each of our employees signs an agreement to maintain the confidentiality
of our proprietary information, and most of our employees have Lam stock or
stock option arrangements with us that generally provide for the vesting of
their options over multiple years.

In the semiconductor and semiconductor equipment industries, competition
for highly skilled employees is intense. Our future success depends to a
significant extent upon our continued ability to attract and retain qualified
employees, particularly in the R&D and customer support functions. We continue
to believe that the ability to offer compensation in the form of stock options
or similar plans is an important component of our employee retention programs.

Competition

The semiconductor capital equipment industry is characterized by rapid
change and is highly competitive throughout the world. In order to compete
effectively, we must invest significant financial resources to continue to
strengthen and enhance our product and services portfolio and to maintain
customer service and support locations globally. Semiconductor manufacturers
evaluate capital equipment suppliers in many areas, including, but not limited
to, process performance, productivity, customer support, defect control, and
overall cost of ownership, which can be affected by many factors such as
equipment design, reliability, software automation, etc. Our ability to succeed
in the marketplace will depend upon our ability to introduce product
enhancements and new products on a timely basis. In addition, semiconductor
manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate new
capital equipment into a semiconductor production line. As a result, once a
semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular supplier’s equipment and
qualified it for production, the manufacturer generally maintains that
selection for that specific production application. Accordingly, we may
experience difficulty in selling to a given customer if that customer has
qualified a competitor’s equipment.

We face significant competition with all of our products. Certain of our
existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial
resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and
customer service and support organizations. We expect our competitors to
continue to improve the design and performance of their current products and
processes and to introduce new products and processes with enhanced price
performance characteristics. If our competitors make acquisitions or enter into
strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering etch
or products similar to those we sell, our ability to sell our products to those
customers



could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will continue to
compete successfully in the future. Our primary competitors in the etch market
are Tokyo Electron Limited and Applied Materials Inc.

Patents and Licenses

Our policy is to seek patents on inventions relating to new or enhanced
products and processes developed as part of our ongoing research, engineering,
manufacturing, and support activities. We currently hold a number of United
States and foreign patents covering various aspects of our products and
processes. We believe that the duration of our patents generally exceeds the
useful life of the technologies and processes disclosed and claimed therein.
Our patents, which cover material aspects of our past and present core
products, have current durations ranging from approximately 5 to 17 years. We
believe that, although the patents we own and may obtain in the future will be
of value, they will not alone determine our success, which depends principally
upon our engineering, marketing, support, and delivery skills. However, in the
absence of patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt
to imitate our products, manufacturing techniques, and processes. In addition,
other companies and inventors may receive patents that contain claims
applicable or similar to our products and processes. The sale of products
covered by patents of others could require licenses that may not be available
on acceptable terms, or at all.

From time to time, we have received notices from third parties alleging
infringement of such parties’ patent or other intellectual property rights by
our products. In such cases, it is our policy to defend the claims, or if
considered appropriate, negotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms.
However, no assurance can be given that we will be able, in the future, to
negotiate necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or
that any litigation resulting from such claims would not have a material
adverse effect on our business and financial results. For further discussion of
legal matters, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” of this Form 10-K.

Other Cautionary Statements

See the discussion of risks in the section of this report entitled Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

As of September 9, 2004, the executive officers of Lam, who are elected by
and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors, were as follows:

Name

Age

Title

James W. Bagley


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Stephen G. Newberry


President and Chief Operating Officer

Martin B. Anstice


Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer

Nicolas J. Bright


Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Products

Steven A. Lindsay


Group Vice President, Global Sales and Corporate Marketing

Ernest E. Maddock


Group Vice President, Global Operations

Abdi Hariri


Vice President, Customer Support Business Group

James W. Bagley became Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Lam upon
consummation of the merger with OnTrak Systems, Inc., in 1997. Effective
September 1, 1998, Mr. Bagley was appointed Chairman of the Board of Lam. Mr.
Bagley currently is a director of Teradyne, Inc. and Micron Technology, Inc.
From June 1996 to August 1997, Mr. Bagley served as Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of OnTrak Systems, Inc. He was formerly Chief Operating
Officer and Vice Chairman of the Board of Applied Materials, Inc., where he
also served in other senior executive positions during his 15-year tenure. Mr.
Bagley held various management positions at Texas Instruments, Inc., before he
joined Applied Materials, Inc.

Stephen G. Newberry joined the Company in August 1997 as Executive Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer. In July 1998, Mr. Newberry was promoted
to President of Lam. Mr. Newberry currently is a director on the board of
Nextest Systems Corporation and Semiconductor Equipment and Materials Institute
(SEMI), the industry’s trade association. Previously, he was employed by
Applied Materials, Inc. for 17 years, most recently as Group Vice President of
Global Operations and Planning. From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Newberry served as Vice
President of Applied Materials Japan and was responsible for customer service,
engineering and manufacturing activities in that region. Upon his return to the
United States, Mr. Newberry served in a variety of executive management
positions at Applied Materials, Inc.

Martin B. Anstice joined Lam in April 2001 as Senior Director, Operations
Controller, was promoted to the position of Managing Director and Corporate
Controller in May 2002, and was promoted to Vice President, Finance, Chief
Financial Officer, and Chief Accounting Officer in June 2004. Mr. Anstice began
his career at Raychem Corporation where, during his 13-year tenure, he held
numerous finance roles of increasing responsibility in Europe and North
America. Subsequent to Tyco International’s acquisition of Raychem in 1999, he
assumed responsibilities supporting mergers and acquisition activities of Tyco
Electronics. Mr. Anstice is an associate member of the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountants in the United Kingdom.

Nicolas J. Bright joined the Company in May 1998 as Vice President of
Technology and Engineering. He currently holds the position of Senior Vice
President and General Manager, Global Products. Prior to joining Lam, Mr.
Bright was employed by Applied Materials, Inc. During his 16-year tenure at
that firm, Mr. Bright held senior management positions in engineering and
technology within etch, ion implant, and automation business units. He has also
held positions at General Electric Co. in the United Kingdom and ABB in Sweden.
Mr. Bright holds numerous patents in semiconductor manufacturing disciplines.

Steven A. Lindsay, Group Vice President of Global Sales and Corporate
Marketing since November 2001, joined the Company in September 1999 as Vice
President of Corporate Marketing. Previously, Mr. Lindsay was employed by
Applied Materials, Inc., where, during his 22-year tenure, he held numerous
senior management positions in sales and marketing. Most recently, he was
President, Applied Materials North America and Group Vice President, Applied
Materials, Inc. He has also held sales management positions at Fairchild
Semiconductor and ITT Semiconductor.



Ernest E. Maddock, Group Vice President of Global Operations since October
2003, currently oversees Global Operations, Information Technology, Global
Security, Corporate Quality, and Facilities. Mr. Maddock joined the Company in
November 1997. Mr. Maddock’s previously held positions with the Company
include Vice President of the Customer Support Business Group. Prior to his
employment with Lam, he was Managing Director, Global Logistics and Repair
Services Operations, and Chief Financial Officer, Software Products Division,
of NCR Corporation. He has also held a variety of executive roles in finance
and operations in several industries ranging from commercial real estate to
telecommunications.

Abdi Hariri, Vice President of the Customer Support Business Group since
August 2004, joined the Company in April 1989 and has served in a number of
different assignments with the Field and Product Groups. Prior to his current
appointment, Mr. Hariri served as the General Manager of Lam Japan for
approximately 18 months. His experience prior to his appointment in Japan
included over thirteen years at the Company with various responsibilities,
including global business development and engineering. Prior to his employment
at Lam, Mr. Hariri served as a Process Engineer at Siliconix, Inc. He holds a
Masters Degree in Chemical Engineering from Stanford University.



Item 2.

Properties

Our executive offices and principal operating and R&D facilities are
located in Fremont, California, and are under operating leases expiring from
2005 to 2008. As a result of the restructuring of our operations, we have
subleased some of our idle facilities, (refer to Note 15 of our Consolidated
Financial Statements, included in Item 8 herein, for further information
concerning our property leases). In addition, we lease properties for our
service, technical support and sales personnel throughout the United States,
Europe, Japan, and Asia Pacific. Our fiscal 2004 rental payments for the space
occupied during that period aggregated approximately $6.2 million. Our facilities lease obligations are subject
to periodic increases, and we believe that our existing facilities are well
maintained and in good operating condition.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

From time to time, we have received notices from third parties alleging
infringement of such parties’ patent or other intellectual property rights by
our products. In such cases it is our policy to defend the claims, or if
considered appropriate, negotiate licenses on commercially reasonable terms.
However, no assurance can be given that we will be able to negotiate necessary
licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that any litigation
resulting from such claims would not have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position, liquidity, operating results, or our
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for the Registrant’s Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from
Item 6, “Selected Consolidated Financial Data,” below.



Item 6.

Selected Consolidated Financial Data

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,

June 24,

June 25,






(in thousands, except per share data)

OPERATIONS:

Total revenue(1)

$

935,946

$

755,234

$

943,114

$

1,519,789

$

1,230,767

Gross margin

431,049

303,829

266,089

653,479

541,855

Restructuring charges, net(2)

8,327

15,901

44,850

12,780

(33,691

)

Purchased technology for research and
development

—

—

—

8,000

7,460

Operating income (loss)

106,180

(5,385

)

(119,838

)

186,532

229,842

Loss on equity derivative contracts in
Company stock (EITF 00-19)

—

(16,407

)

(8,236

)

—

—

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
changes in accounting principles

82,988

(7,739

)

(90,051

)

141,137

204,756

Cumulative effect of EITF 00-19(3)

—

—

—

33,074

—

Cumulative effect of SAB 101, net of tax(4)

—

—

—

(122,105

)

—

Net income (loss)

82,988

(7,739

)

(90,051

)

52,106

204,756

Net income (loss) per share:

Income (loss) before cumulative effect of
changes in accounting principles

Basic

$

0.63

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

$

1.14

$

1.69

Diluted

$

0.59

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

$

1.07

$

1.53

Cumulative effect of EITF 00-19(3)

Basic

—

—

—

$

0.27

—

Diluted

—

—

—

$

0.25

—

Cumulative effect of SAB 101, net of tax(4)

Basic

—

—

—

$

(0.99

)

—

Diluted

—

—

—

$

(0.92

)

—

Net income (loss)

Basic

$

0.63

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

$

0.42

$

1.69

Diluted(5)

$

0.59

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

$

0.39

$

1.53

Pro forma amounts with the change in
accounting principle related to revenue
recognition applied retroactively (unaudited):

Total revenues

n/a

n/a

n/a

$

1,519,789

$

1,009,006

Net income (loss)

n/a

n/a

n/a

174,211

108,133

Net income (loss) per share:

Basic

n/a

n/a

n/a

$

1.41

$

0.89

Diluted

n/a

n/a

n/a

$

1.32

$

0.81

BALANCE SHEET:

Working capital

$

519,782

$

655,794

$

757,880

$

1,076,922

$

733,579

Total assets

1,198,626

1,198,275

1,632,291

1,871,775

1,244,837

Long-term obligations, less current portion

9,554

332,209

359,691

659,718

321,657

(1) We changed our revenue recognition policy in the fourth quarter of fiscal
2001, effective June 26, 2000, based on guidance provided in Securities and
Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), “Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements.” Refer to our discussion of “Critical
Accounting Policies” for additional information about our revenue recognition
policy and see item (4) below.

(2) Restructuring charges, net exclude restructuring charges (recoveries)
included in cost of goods sold and reflected in gross margin of ($1.7) million,
($1.0) million, $5.9 million, $4.0 million and ($2.2) million, for fiscal years
2004, 2003, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. These amounts primarily relate
to the write-off of selected, older product line inventories in connection with
our restructuring plans and the partial recovery of the charges from the
subsequent sale of a portion of such inventories. These restructuring
charges/(recoveries) are included as a component of cost of goods sold in
accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force 96-9, “Classification of Inventory
Markdowns and Other Costs Associated with a Restructuring” (EITF 96-9).



(3) We recorded a non-cash gain of $33.1 million (no related tax), or $0.25
per diluted share, to reflect the cumulative effect of the accounting change as
of June 24, 2001 related to the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force 00-19,
“Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a
Company’s Own Stock” (EITF 00-19).

(4) We recorded a non-cash charge of $122.1 million, after reduction for
income tax benefits of $81.4 million, or ($0.92) per diluted share, to reflect
the cumulative effect of the accounting change as of June 26, 2000 related to
the adoption of SAB 101.

(5) Diluted net income per share for the fiscal year ended June 27, 2004
includes the assumed conversion of the convertible subordinated 4% notes.
Accordingly, interest expense, net of taxes, of $3.2 million must be added back
to net income for computing diluted net earnings per share.



UNAUDITED SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

1ST

2ND

3RD

4TH

(in thousands, except per share data)

QUARTERLY FISCAL 2004:

Total revenue

$

183,738

$

191,508

$

231,128

$

329,572

Gross margin

78,518

87,215

106,113

159,203

Restructuring charges, net(1)

1,062

5,948

1,317

—

Operating income

4,937

8,048

24,664

68,531

Net income

4,786

6,391

19,156

52,655

Net income per share

Basic

$

0.04

$

0.05

$

0.14

$

0.39

Diluted

$

0.04

$

0.05

$

0.13

$

0.38

Price range per share

$

17.59-$26.76

$

22.15-$33.83

$

22.52-$35.50

$

20.91-$27.50

Number of shares used in per share
calculations:

Basic

128,351

131,020

133,251

134,414

Diluted(2)

134,886

139,658

147,365

139,820

1ST

2ND

3RD

4TH

(in thousands, except per share data)

QUARTERLY FISCAL 2003:

Total revenue

$

197,520

$

184,569

$

187,059

$

186,086

Gross margin

78,994

72,490

75,221

77,124

Restructuring charges, net(1)

—

2,053

4,043

9,805

Operating income (loss)

4,253

(1,017

)

(1,048

)

(7,573

)

Loss on equity derivative contracts in
Company stock

(16,407

)

—

—

—

Net income (loss)

(13,714

)

1,479


3,699

Net income (loss) per share

Basic

$

(0.11

)

$

0.01

$

0.01

$

0.03

Diluted

$

(0.11

)

$

0.01

$

0.01

$

0.03

Price range per share

$

8.61-$18.60

$

6.63-$17.31

$

10.70-$14.38

$

10.77-$20.20

Number of shares used in per share
calculations:

Basic

126,931

125,411

125,988

126,872

Diluted

126,931

128,537

129,550

131,420

(1)

Restructuring charges, net exclude restructuring recoveries
included in cost of goods sold and reflected in gross margin of ($1.7)
million and ($1.0) million, for the years ended June 27, 2004 and June
29, 2003, respectively. These amounts relate to the write-off of
selected, older product line inventories in connection with our
restructuring plans and the partial recovery of these charges from the
subsequent sale of a portion of such inventories. The restructuring recoveries are included as a
component of cost of goods sold in accordance with EITF 96-9.

(2)

Diluted net income per share for the third fiscal quarter ended
March 28, 2004 includes the assumed conversion of the convertible subordinated 4%
notes. Accordingly, interest expense, net of taxes, of $0.4 million
must be added back to net income for computing diluted net earnings per
share.



Stock and Dividend Information:

Our Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
LRCX. The price range per share is the highest and lowest bid prices, as
reported by the National Association of Security Dealers, Inc., on any trading
day during the respective quarter.

As of August 29, 2004, we had 542 stockholders of record.

In fiscal 2004 and 2003 we did not declare or pay cash dividends to our
stockholders. We currently have no plans to declare and pay cash dividends.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations
contains forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and changes in condition, significance, value and
effect. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain
factors, including but not limited to those discussed in “Risk
Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file from time to time with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. (See “Cautionary Statement Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K).

Results of Operations

Lam Research Corporation (Lam or the Company) is a major supplier of wafer
fabrication equipment and services to the world’s semiconductor industry. We
actively market and sell product offerings that include single-wafer plasma
etch systems with a wide range of applications, wafer cleaning systems, and an
array of services designed to optimize the utilization of these systems by our
customers.

The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and has historically
experienced periodic downturns and upturns. Over the past three business
cycles, the severity of these fluctuations has increased, and today’s leading
indicators of changes in customer investment patterns may not be any more
reliable than in prior years. Demand for our equipment can vary significantly
from period to period as a result of various factors, including, but not
limited to, economic conditions, supply, demand, and prices for semiconductors,
customer capacity requirements, and our ability to develop and market
competitive products. For these and other reasons, our results of operations
for fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002 may not necessarily be indicative of future
operating results.

Strengthening demand that we had noted early in fiscal 2004 and our
belief that we are gaining market share manifested themselves in the
progression of our quarterly revenues. We have continued to focus on our
systems and service competitiveness and the implementation of strategies aimed
at achieving a more variable cost structure. These efforts, combined with
higher volumes, are illustrated by gross margin improvements year over year,
including both fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we decided to cease further
investment in CMP systems development. This decision was based on the
conclusion that the product did not demonstrate sufficient advantages to garner
the market share necessary for adequate returns on further investment.

Also during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, we repaid in full our
convertible subordinated 4% notes (4% Notes), two years prior to maturity, and
we settled our interest rate swap agreement (the swap) which had been used to
minimize the impact of interest rate exposure associated with our fixed rate 4%
Notes.



We continue to invest significantly in research and development to
strengthen our product and service offerings and competitive position.
Increases in operating expenses during fiscal 2004 were primarily due to a growth in salary and
benefits costs, a result of planned increases of employee compensation to
competitive levels and incentive-based benefits triggered by higher profits.
In addition, spending increased during fiscal 2004 for discretionary information technology
projects designed to contribute to productivity improvements across the
Company. These costs have been partially offset by a decrease in
facilities-related expenses as a result of infrastructure rationalization and
consolidation.

Total Revenue

Year Ended

Percent Change



June 27,

June 29,

June 30,

versus

versus






(in thousands)

Revenue

$

935,946

$

755,234

$

943,114

23.9

%

(19.9

%)

The increase in revenues for fiscal year 2004 compared to the prior year
is reflective of a market environment that has improved, evidenced by expanded
levels of capital investments by semiconductor manufacturers. Signs of improvement in demand for wafer
processing equipment, noted early in 2004, continued through the year. These improvements in demand as well
as our belief of market share gains are evidenced by the progression of our quarterly revenues. The overall increase
in our revenues is influenced by increased demand, system installation cycles
and customer acceptances. Our current estimate for revenues for the September
2004 quarter is approximately $400 to $415 million.

The decrease in revenue for fiscal year 2003 compared to fiscal year 2002
reflected our customers’ response to excess capacity in the semiconductor
industry, which was significantly influenced by the retrenchment of the global
economy and levels of end-user demand for products servicing
telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics markets. Semiconductor
manufacturers selectively invested in leading-edge technology equipment through
fiscal 2003. Overall, demand remained relatively flat during fiscal 2003.

Based on the guidance provided by Securities and Exchange Commission Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), “Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements”, as amended by Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 104 (SAB 104), “Revenue Recognition”, we generally recognize new
systems revenue when we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released
from our customer acceptance obligations. Refer to our discussion of “Critical
Accounting Policies” within this document for additional information about our
revenue recognition policy. Where customer acceptance provisions exist, the
fiscal period in which we are able to recognize systems revenue is typically
determined based on the length of time that our customers require to evaluate
the performance of our equipment to agreed standards and specifications. In
accordance with SAB 104, in situations with multiple deliverables, revenue is
recognized upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when
we receive customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer
acceptance obligations. Consideration from multiple element arrangements is
allocated among the separate units based on their relative fair values,
provided the elements have value on a stand alone basis, there is objective and
reliable evidence of fair value, the arrangement does not include a general
right of return relative to the delivered item and delivery or performance of
the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our
control. The maximum revenue recognized on a delivered element is limited to
the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. On
average, revenue recognition for systems normally occurs from two to five
months after the date of shipment. Spares and system upgrade revenues are
generally recognized on the date of shipment, and service revenues are
generally recognized upon performance of the activities requested by the
customer, including training and extended warranty support.



Regional geographic breakdown of revenue is as follows:

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




North America


%


%


%

Europe


%


%


%

Asia Pacific


%


%


%

Japan


%


%


%

The Asia Pacific region has historically accounted for a significant
portion of our revenues as a substantial amount of the worldwide capacity for
semiconductor manufacturing is located within this region; this trend has
continued. The growth in Asia Pacific revenues during fiscal year 2004
predominantly occurred in Taiwan and Singapore. The fiscal 2003 increase in
Asia Pacific revenues reflected expanded foundry capabilities and investments by certain
of our customers to support the introduction of latest-generation integrated
circuit manufacturing.

Gross Margin

Year Ended

Percent Change



June 27,

June 29,

June 30,

versus

versus






(in thousands, except percentages)

Gross Margin

$

431,049

$

303,829

$

266,089

41.9

%

14.2

%

Percent of total revenue

46.1

%

40.2

%

28.2

%

We have continued to focus on systems design to achieve more efficient
purchasing and installation processes. Our performance is evidenced by six
successive quarters’ progression of gross margin as a percent of total
revenues. The increase in gross margin as a percent of total revenues of
approximately six percentage points in fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003 is
primarily due to improved utilization of factory and field resources, expense
management programs, and improved sales volumes throughout the year. Fiscal
2004 gross margin includes $2.4 million of asset impairment charges related to
our discontinuance of work on CMP systems development as discussed earlier in
the introductory paragraph within “Results of Operations” in this section.
During fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, we recovered and recorded, in cost of goods
sold, $1.7 million and $1.0 million, respectively, from unanticipated sales of
certain inventories previously written off as part of our September 2001
restructuring.

We expect that gross margin as a percent of total revenue will be
approximately 50% during the September 2004 quarter.

The primary objectives of our strategy to outsource manufacturing
activities included a plan to avoid future fixed cost infrastructure and to
achieve a more variable cost structure, by establishing transaction-based
pricing agreements with vendors. In addition, we have realized opportunities to
achieve lower material and assembly costs through improved systems design and
leverage from a more focused supplier base.

Our restructuring plans, combined with ongoing cost management activities
have supported improved utilization rates in our manufacturing and customer
support operations, also contributing to the improvement in gross margin as a
percentage of revenue in the two most recent fiscal years.

The manufacturing assembly outsourcing model has required fundamental
changes within the supply chain and within our business processes. One
objective of this strategy is to minimize certain costs related to holding
inventories and managing product lifecycles. In this context, we had incurred
incremental excess and obsolete inventory charges of $24.1 million in the second fiscal quarter of 2002, and
$5.9 million of inventory restructuring expenses. The charges in fiscal 2002
reflected the known and anticipated impact of the downturn on our business at
that point in time. The reduction in excess and obsolete inventory costs in
fiscal 2003 reflects more stability in



quarter-on-quarter business levels
during the year and our continued emphasis on the minimization of costs
discussed above.

Approximately 5 percentage points of year-over-year improvement in gross
margin as a percentage of revenues for fiscal 2003 reflects the $38.8 million
of charges to cost of goods sold related to a patent litigation settlement in
fiscal 2002. In the second fiscal quarter of 2002, we signed a final settlement
agreement in connection with a patent infringement claim by Varian
Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian). We agreed to pay Varian
$20.0 million in cash and issued them a warrant to purchase 2,000,000 shares of
our common stock with a fair value of $21.5 million. In connection with this
settlement, we recorded a charge of $38.8 million in fiscal 2002, and the
remaining amount of the settlement, $2.7 million, represented the value of
future licensed use of patents we received. The $2.7 million relating to the
license was amortized ratably over the subsequent 10 quarters as a charge to
cost of goods sold. The $2.7 million license was fully amortized at June 27,
2004.

Research and Development

Year Ended

Percent Change



June 27,

June 29,

June 30,

versus

versus






(in thousands, except percentages)

Research & Development

$

170,479

$

160,493

$

179,217

6.2

%

(10.4

%)

Percent of total revenue

18.2

%

21.3

%

19.0

%

To better position ourselves competitively, we continue to invest
significantly in research and development aiming at strengthening our
product and services portfolio via the introduction of next-generation products
as well as enhancement of our existing offerings. Approximately 65% of fiscal
2004 systems revenues are derived from products introduced over the previous
two years. The decrease in expenses as a percent of total revenues is due to
increased sales volumes as our fiscal year 2004 revenue growth was nearly four
times our R&D expense growth rate. The growth in spending between fiscal 2004
and fiscal 2003 is primarily due to increases in salary and benefits costs of
approximately $10 million, a result of planned increases of employee
compensation to competitive levels and incentive-based benefits triggered by
higher profits. Approximately $2 million of the overall increase occurred throughout several
categories and was due primarily to the increase in business activity.
These costs were partially offset by reductions in facilities-related expenses,
largely reflected in reduced depreciation costs of roughly $2 million, due to
infrastructure rationalization and consolidation. We do not expect that our
decision to cease further investment in CMP systems development will have a
significant impact on future R&D expense levels.

Spending in fiscal 2003 decreased compared to fiscal 2002 and included a
reduction in employee-related expenses and supplies expenses of approximately
$6 million, and lower infrastructure costs, principally reflected in reduced
depreciation and amortization of another $6 million. Fiscal 2002 expenses
included approximately $5 million related to impairment charges and write-downs
in the value of selected laboratory equipment, which was determined to be no
longer useful due to technological changes. The increase in R&D expenses as a
percentage of revenues in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 is the result of
the lower sales volume in fiscal 2003.



Selling, General and Administrative

Year Ended

Percent Change



June 27,

June 29,

June 30,

versus

versus






(in thousands, except percentages)

Selling, General & Administrative (SG&A)

$

146,063

$

132,820

$

161,860

10.0

%

(17.9

%)

Percent of total revenue

15.6

%

17.6

%

17.2

%

Significant increases in profits during fiscal 2004 supported the Company
increasing employee compensation in fiscal year 2004 by nearly $12 million; a
result of planned increases of employee compensation to competitive levels and
incentive-based benefits triggered by higher profits. Also contributing to the
fiscal 2004 SG&A expense growth was a rise in outside services of approximately
$5 million primarily due to costs incurred for discretionary information
technology projects designed to contribute to productivity improvements across
the Company. A decrease of approximately $4 million, primarily in depreciation
expense, due to infrastructure rationalization and consolidation partially
offset the rise in expenses noted above.

Infrastructure rationalization and consolidation, including reduced
facilities, contributed the majority of the annual cost reduction from fiscal
2002 to fiscal 2003. In addition, SG&A expenses in fiscal 2002 included a $4.2
million impairment charge related to the write-down in value of certain
demonstration equipment used in sales and marketing activities, which was
determined to be no longer useful due to technological changes.

We expect total operating expenses will be approximately $95 million
during the September 2004 quarter.

Restructuring Charges

We have developed plans and incurred restructuring charges to respond to
the high level of volatility and, at times, depressed levels of capital
investment by the semiconductor industry. The frequency of our restructuring
plans has been driven by the unpredictable and substantial changes in the
semiconductor industry as a whole and the market for semiconductor processing
equipment in particular. These dynamic changes in the semiconductor industry
and our business have required multiple integrated responses, including those
activities within our restructuring plans, based on the best information and
industry-expert forecasts available at that point in time. Although management
makes every attempt to consolidate all known restructuring activities into one
plan, the extreme nature of our industry’s business cycles and the rapidly
changing forecasting environment places practical limitations on achieving this
objective. The implementation of restructuring activities and recognition of
their impact in our financial statements does not preclude similar but
unrelated actions from being necessary in future periods.

We systematically review our revenue outlook and forecasts and assess
their impact on required employment levels, facilities utilization, and
outsourcing activities. Based on these evaluations, our senior management
committed to cost reduction and exit activities in the quarters ended March 28,
2004 (the March 2004 Plan), December 28, 2003 (the December 2003 Plan),
September 28, 2003 (the September 2003 Plan), June 29, 2003 (the June 2003
Plan), March 30, 2003 (the March 2003 Plan), December 29, 2002 (the December
2002 Plan), December 30, 2001 (the December 2001 Plan), and September 23, 2001
(the September 2001 Plan).

Prior to the end of each quarter noted above, we initiated the announced
restructuring activities and management with the proper level of authority
approved specific actions under the respective Plan. Severance packages to
potentially impacted employees were communicated in enough detail such that the
employees could determine their type and amount of benefit. The termination of
the affected employees occurred as soon as practical after the restructuring
plans were announced. The amount of remaining future lease payments for
facilities we ceased to use and included in the restructuring charges is based
on management’s estimates using known prevailing real estate market conditions
at that time based, in part, on the opinions of independent real estate
experts. Leasehold improvements relating to the vacated buildings were written
off, as these items will have no future economic benefit to us and have been
abandoned.

We distinguish regular operating cost management activities from
restructuring activities. Accounting for restructuring activities requires an
evaluation of formally committed and approved plans. Restructuring activities



have comparatively greater strategic significance and materiality and may
involve exit activities, whereas regular cost containment activities are more
tactical in nature and are rarely characterized by formal and integrated action
plans or exiting a particular product, facility, or service.

As of June 27, 2004, the overall restructuring reserve balance consisted
of the following:

Severance

and

Benefits

Facilities

Total

(in thousands)

Fiscal 2004 restructurings

$


$

2,077

$

2,107

Fiscal 2003 restructurings


6,451

6,634

Fiscal 2002 restructurings


3,496

3,885

Pre-fiscal 2002 restructurings

—

1,228

1,228

Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$

13,252

$

13,854

The severance and benefits-related costs are anticipated to be utilized by
the end of fiscal year 2005. The facilities balance consists primarily of
lease payments on vacated buildings and is expected to be utilized by the end
of fiscal year 2010.

Fiscal 2004 Restructuring Activities

We recorded net restructuring charges during fiscal year 2004 of
approximately $6.7 million, consisting of severance and benefits for
involuntarily terminated employees of $1.2 million, charges for the present
value of remaining lease payments on vacated facilities of $2.8 million, and
the write-off of related leasehold improvements of $1.6 million. We also
recorded a charge of approximately $1.0 million for the cancellation of a lease
agreement related to one of our facilities in Japan and $2.1 million for the
write-off of related leasehold improvements. Furthermore, we recognized $1.9
million of additional facilities-related expenses due to changes in estimates
of restructuring plans initiated prior to fiscal 2004. Charges during the year
were partially offset by recovery of $1.5 million, net, of previously accrued
expenses related to the remaining lease payments on vacated facilities in
Japan. Additional offsetting items include recovery of $0.7 million due to
lower than previously estimated employee severance and benefits costs and $1.7
million of recovered inventory from unanticipated sales to our installed base
of certain portions of inventory previously written off as part of our
September 2001 restructuring. The inventory recovery was recorded as a credit
in cost of goods sold.

As a result of the fiscal 2004 restructuring activities, we expect
quarterly savings, relative to the cost structure immediately preceding the
activities, in total expenses of approximately $0.3 million from the March 2004
Plan, $0.7 million from the December 2003 Plan and $0.5 million from the
September 2003 Plan. The majority of the savings are expected to be realized
within Operating Expenses, mainly Selling, General and Administrative expenses.
These estimated savings from the Plans’ discrete actions are primarily related
to lower employee payroll, facilities, and depreciation expenses. Actual
savings may vary from these forecasts, depending upon future events and
circumstances, such as differences in actual sublease income versus estimated
amounts. Through June 27, 2004, we believe actual savings from these Plans are
largely consistent with original estimated quarterly savings.

March 2004 Plan

We recorded a restructuring charge during the quarter ended March 28, 2004
of approximately $3.0 million, consisting of charges for the cancellation of a
lease agreement related to one of our facilities in Japan, deemed to be no
longer useful to our operations, of $1.0 million, and the write-off of related
leasehold improvements of $2.0 million.



Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the March 2004 Plan:

Abandoned

Fixed

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

March 2004 provision

$


$

2,088

$

3,038

Cash payments

(950

)

—

(950

)

Non-cash charges

—

(2,088

)

(2,088

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$

—

$

—

$

—

December 2003 Plan

Our December 2003 Plan activities included reducing our workforce by less
than 20 employees, primarily in North America and by vacating a facility
located in North America deemed to be no longer useful to our operations. The
employees included in the Plan were from a range of functions and at different
levels of the organization. We recorded a restructuring charge during the
quarter ended December 28, 2003 of approximately $4.2 million, consisting of
severance and benefits for involuntarily terminated employees, charges for
remaining lease payments on vacated facilities, and the write-off of related
leasehold improvements.

Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the December 2003 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

December 2003 provision

$


$

2,305

$

1,514

$

4,169

Reversal of restructuring charges

—

(18

)

—

(18

)

Cash payments

(350

)

(244

)

—

(594

)

Non-cash charges

—

—

(1,514

)

(1,514

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$

—

$

2,043

$

—

$

2,043

September 2003 Plan

Our September 2003 Plan activities included reducing our workforce
primarily in North America and Europe by approximately 20 people and by
vacating selected facilities located in North America and Asia deemed to be no
longer necessary to our operations. The employees included in the Plan were
from a range of functions and at multiple levels of the organization, with the
majority of the reductions in North America. We recorded a restructuring charge
during the quarter ended September 28, 2003 of approximately $1.2 million,
consisting of severance and benefits for involuntarily terminated employees,
charges for remaining lease payments on vacated facilities, and the write-off
of associated leasehold improvements.



Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the September 2003 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

September 2003 provision

$


$


$


$

1,230

Additional restructuring charges


—

—


Reversal of restructuring charges

(69

)

(7

)

—

(76

)

Cash payments

(662

)

(353

)

—

(1,015

)

Non-cash charges

—

—

(123

)

(123

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$


$

—

$


Fiscal 2003 Restructuring Activities

As a result of the fiscal 2003 restructuring activities, we expect
quarterly savings, relative to the cost structure immediately preceding the
activities, of approximately $1.0 million from the June 2003 Plan, $1.0 million
from the March 2003 Plan, and $3.0 million from the December 2002 Plan. The
majority of the savings are expected to be realized within Operating Expenses,
mainly Selling, General and Administrative expenses. These estimated savings
are primarily from lower payroll, facilities, and depreciation expenses. Actual
results may vary from those anticipated, depending upon future events and
circumstances, such as differences in actual sublease income versus estimated
amounts. Through June 27, 2004, we believe realized savings are consistent with
original forecasts. However, other factors may significantly influence our
future cost structure and, consequently, partially or totally offset savings
from these Plans.

June 2003 Plan

Our June 2003 Plan activities included reducing our workforce in North
America, Europe, and Asia by approximately 30 people and by vacating selected
sales and administrative facilities located in North America, Europe, and Asia
deemed to be no longer required for our operations. The employees included in
the Plan were from a broad range of functions and at multiple levels of the
organization, with the majority of the reductions in North America. We recorded
a restructuring charge during the quarter ended June 29, 2003, of approximately
$7.6 million, consisting of severance and benefits for involuntarily terminated
employees, charges for the present value of remaining lease payments on vacated
facilities, a loss on the fair value of a vacated facility and the write-off of
related leasehold improvements. In June 2003, a lease covering one of the
vacated facilities at our Fremont, California campus was amended, combined,
restated, and transferred to a new lessor under a single lease structure. At
the time of the amendment, the leased facility’s fair value was less than its
original cost by approximately $1.0 million. Accordingly, this amount was
recorded as a loss on the fair value of the vacated facility and included in
the $6.7 million facility-related restructuring charge.



Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the June 2003 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

June 2003 provision

$


$

6,656

$


$

7,649

Cash payments

(366

)

(388

)

—

(754

)

Non-cash charges

—

—

(210

)

(210

)

Balance at June 29, 2003


6,268

—

6,685

Cash payments

(374

)

(847

)

—

(1,221

)

Reversal of restructuring charges

(37

)

(2

)

—

(39

)

Additional restructuring charges

—


—


Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$

5,503

$

—

$

5,509

March 2003 Plan

Our March 2003 Plan activities included reducing our workforce in North
America and Europe by approximately 50 people and by vacating selected sales
and administrative facilities located in North America deemed to be no longer
required for our operations. The employees included in the Plan were from a
broad range of functions and at multiple levels of the organization, with the
majority of the reductions in North America. We recorded a restructuring charge
during the quarter ended March 30, 2003, of approximately $4.7 million,
consisting of severance and benefits for involuntarily terminated employees,
charges for remaining lease payments on vacated facilities, and the write-off
of related leasehold improvements. We recovered $0.3 million
during fiscal 2004 due to a change in estimates related to our facilities.
Additionally, during fiscal 2004 $0.3 million were
recovered due to lower than previously estimated employee severance and
benefits costs.

Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the March 2003 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

March 2003 provision

$

1,658

$

2,913

$


$

4,742

Cash payments

(855

)

(757

)

—

(1,612

)

Non-cash charges

(228

)

—

(171

)

(399

)

Balance at June 29, 2003


2,156

—

2,731

Cash payments

(255

)

(959

)

—

(1,214

)

Reversal of restructuring charges

(280

)

(283

)

—

(563

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$


$

—

$


December 2002 Plan

Our December 2002 Plan activities included reducing our workforce in North
America, Europe, and Asia by approximately 120 employees and by vacating
selected sales and administrative facilities located in North America, Europe
and Asia deemed to be no longer necessary for our operations. The employees
included in the Plan were from a broad range of functions and at multiple
levels of the organization, with approximately 65% from North America and
approximately 35% from Europe and Asia locations. We recorded a restructuring
charge of $5.7 million, consisting of severance and benefits for involuntarily
terminated employees, charges for remaining lease payments on vacated
facilities, and the write-off of related leasehold improvements. During fiscal 2004



we recovered $0.1 million due to the difference
between the costs previously accrued and actual costs to terminate a lease
agreement related to a facility in Japan.

Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the December 2002 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

December 2002 provision

$

3,257

$

1,945

$


$

5,676

Cash payments

(3,112

)

(487

)

—

(3,599

)

Non-cash charges

—

(49

)

(474

)

(523

)

Balance at June 29, 2003


1,409

—

1,554

Reversal of restructuring charges

—

(90

)

—

(90

)

Cash payments

(8

)

(1,285

)

—

(1,293

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$


$

—

$


Fiscal 2002 Restructuring Activities

December 2001 Plan

During the second fiscal quarter of 2002, our restructuring activities
included reducing our workforce by approximately 470 employees in North
America, Europe, and Asia, vacating selected administrative and warehouse
facilities at our Fremont, California campus deemed to be no longer required
for our operations, and the closure of certain offices in Asia. The employees
included in the Plan were from a broad range of functions and at multiple
levels throughout the organization with approximately 80% from North America
and approximately 20% from Asia and Europe locations. We recorded a
restructuring charge of $33.8 million relating to severance and benefits for
involuntarily terminated employees, charges for remaining lease payments on
vacated facilities and the write-off of related leasehold improvements and
fixed assets.

During fiscal 2004, we recorded approximately $0.4 million of additional
restructuring charges due to a revision in estimates for one of our vacated
facilities and we recovered approximately $1.4 million, net, due to the
difference between the costs previously accrued and actual costs to terminate a
lease agreement for a facility for which we entered into a lease cancellation
agreement during the quarter ended March 28, 2004. During fiscal 2003, we
recovered approximately $3.8 million of restructuring charges originally
accrued under the December 2001 Plan, $2.1 million for benefits offered that
were not utilized by terminated employees and approximately $1.7 million
related to a revision to the net amount of lease payments remaining on vacated
facilities. In addition, during fiscal 2003, we recorded approximately $3.0
million of additional restructuring charges of which $2.5 million were due to
revisions we made in sublease assumptions for two of our vacated buildings in
Fremont, California and approximately $0.1 million due to additional facility
restoration costs. The remaining $0.4 million of expenses were due to revisions we
made in our estimates for employee termination costs

September 2001 Plan

During the first quarter of fiscal 2002, our restructuring activities
included a reduction of approximately 550 employees in North America, Europe
and Asia, vacating selected facilities at our Fremont, California campus deemed
to be no longer required for our operations and discontinuance of the
manufacture of specific products within our etch product lines. The employees
were from a broad range of functions and at multiple levels of the
organization, with approximately 85% from North America and 15% from Europe and
Asia locations. We recorded a restructuring charge of $21.0 million which
included severance and benefits for involuntarily terminated employees, charges
for remaining lease payments and write-offs of leasehold improvements on
vacated facilities, and inventory write-downs. The inventory charge of
approximately $7.6 million related to our decision to discontinue manufacture
of specific systems within our etch product lines. We recovered approximately
$1.7 million during fiscal year 2004, $1.0 million during fiscal year 2003, and
$0.7 million during fiscal year 2002, from



unanticipated subsequent sales to
our installed base of these items. We physically disposed of approximately $1.0
million of this inventory during fiscal 2004 and $2.7 million during fiscal
2003 and 2002.

During fiscal 2003, approximately $0.9 million was recovered due to lower
employee severance and termination costs of $0.6 million and lower than planned
expenses for vacated facility leases of $0.3 million. In addition, we recorded
additional charges of $0.6 million for the September 2001 Plan based on a
revised estimate of the length of time required to sublease one of our vacated
buildings in Fremont, California.

During fiscal 2002, we recovered approximately $1.0 million of the
September 2001 Plan charge due to lower than estimated employee termination
costs of $0.7 million and lower than planned expenses relating to a vacated
facility lease of $0.3 million.

Fiscal 2001 Restructuring Plans

During the second quarter of fiscal 2003, we completed the remaining
elements of our restructuring activities under the June 2001 Plan. A final $1.1
million of restructuring charges was recovered due to lower than estimated
employee termination costs.

Other Income (Expense), net

Other income (expense), net, was $4.5 million, ($10.3) million and ($8.2)
million in fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively, and consisted of
the following:

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands)

Interest income

$

9,915

$

15,804

$

31,703

Loss on equity derivative contracts

—

(16,407

)

(8,236

)

Interest expense

(4,634

)

(6,096

)

(26,185

)

Foreign exchange gain (loss)

(1,334

)

(272

)

1,982

Debt issue cost amortization

(1,593

)

(2,536

)

(3,763

)

Net gain on settlement of swap and retirement of 4% Notes

4,505

—

—

Equity method investment losses

(426

)

(777

)

(835

)

Equity method investment impairment

—

—

(2,000

)

Other, net

(1,963

)


(823

)

$

4,470

$

(10,260

)

$

(8,157

)

During fiscal 2004, our total cash balances, which consist of cash and
cash equivalents, short-term investments, and restricted cash, increased each
quarter through March 28, 2004. These increases in cash balances allowed us to
repay, in the June 2004 quarter, our 4% Notes prior to maturity as discussed
below. Although cash balances increased throughout the first three quarters of
the year, interest income decreased during fiscal 2004 as a result of lower
market rates. The decline in interest expense and debt issue cost amortization in fiscal 2004
is largely due to the redemption of our 5% $300.0 million subordinated
debentures (5% Notes) in September 2002.

During the quarter ended June 27, 2004, we repaid in full our 4% Notes,
two years prior to maturity. The repayment of the 4% Notes resulted in a cash
outlay of $303.0 million, which included a redemption premium of $3.0 million.
Additionally, during the same quarter, we settled the related interest rate
swap agreement (the swap) which had been used to minimize the impact of
interest rate exposure associated with our 4% Notes. This settlement resulted
in an increase in cash of $10.9 million and, in addition, a transfer of $6
million from restricted cash to cash balances. As a result of the repayment of
the 4% Notes and swap settlement, we recorded a net gain of $4.5 million
included in other income (expense), net. The $4.5 million consisted of a $10.9
million gain related to the swap less the $3.0 million redemption premium and
write-off of $3.4 million of unamortized offering expenses associated with the
4% Notes.



The change in net other expense in fiscal 2003 compared to fiscal 2002 was
primarily due to the settlement of our equity derivative instruments indexed to
Lam stock and lower yields on investments due to declining interest rates
partially offset by lower interest expense due to the redemption of our 5%
Notes in September 2002.

On August 23, 2002, we settled our outstanding equity derivative contracts
by purchasing approximately 3.5 million shares of Lam common stock at an
average price of $11.19 per share for a total cash payment of $39.1 million.
The settlement generated a life to date gain of $8.4 million ($2.41 per share)
and we recognized an increase in treasury stock of $47.6 million as a result of
this transaction. Based on the $13.60 market price of our
common stock at the contract settlement date (August 23, 2002), the fair value
of the equity derivative contracts declined by $16.4 million to $8.4 million,
from their June 30, 2002 fair value of $24.8 million. This $16.4 million
reduction in the equity derivative contracts’ fair value was recorded as a
non-taxable loss in other expense in fiscal 2003.

Tax Expense (Benefit)

Our annual income tax expense (benefit) was $27.7 million, ($7.9) million,
and ($37.9) million, in fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. The
losses on equity derivative contracts indexed to our stock in fiscal years 2003
and 2002 of $16.4 million and $8.2 million, respectively, were non-deductible
for income tax purposes. In April 2003, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
closed its examination of our tax returns for fiscal years up to and including
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998. Resolution was reached on a number of
issues including adjustments related to R&D tax credits resulting in our
recording a $24.9 million tax benefit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. In
addition, a tax expense of approximately $17.0 million associated with
implementing strategies to, in the longer-term, limit our tax liability on the
sale of our products worldwide was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal
2003. These tax strategies are structured to align the asset ownership and
functions of our various legal entities around the world, with our expectations
of the level, timing, and sources of future revenues and profits. In the first
quarter of fiscal 2002, we increased our tax benefit rate to 30%. The increase
resulted from the tax benefit of the R&D credit being proportionately greater
in subsequent quarters due to lower projected pre-tax income and investment in
engineering and development programs qualifying for R&D tax benefits.

Deferred Tax Assets

We had gross deferred tax assets arising from non-deductible temporary
differences, net operating losses, and tax credit carryforwards of $303.3
million and $287.5 million in fiscal 2004 and 2003. The gross deferred tax
assets are offset by valuation allowances of $67.8 million and $36.7 million
and deferred tax liabilities of $26.3 million and $30.7 million in fiscal 2004
and 2003, respectively. Realization of our net deferred tax assets is dependent
on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely than not that such
assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could be negatively
impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at
this time. We evaluate the realizability of the deferred tax assets quarterly
and will continue to assess the need for additional valuation allowances, if
any.

Outsourcing

We define aspects of our business as either core or critical capabilities
and those that are in support of these activities. We have identified as
critical for success in the marketplace our ability to develop leading edge
products, to market and sell what we develop, and to service and support
directly what we sell. Most other activities in the Company are in support of
product development, marketing and selling and customer service. Consequently,
in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, we began implementation of an outsourcing
strategy to obtain certain support services from third parties. Accordingly,
during fiscal 2002, we began to enter into agreements to outsource elements of
our manufacturing, warehousing, logistics, facilities management and
information technology functions. During fiscal 2003 and 2004, we continued to
enter into agreements to outsource certain elements of our transactional
general and administrative functions. We believe that entering into these
outsourcing programs will provide us with more flexibility to scale our
operations in a more timely and efficient manner to respond to the cyclical
nature of our business. Implementing this outsourcing strategy is intended to
lead to proportionally more of our employees supporting core activities and
decrease our reliance on temporary workforce during peak business cycles as
well as reduce the fluctuation in employment that historically occurred due to
the cyclical nature of our business.



Related Party Transactions

During fiscal year 2001, our President and Chief Operating Officer signed
a promissory note with Lam entitling him to borrow up to $1.0 million dollars
at 6.75% simple interest. He was advanced the $1.0 million and subsequently
repaid the entire amount of $1.0 million, plus accrued interest, during the
quarter ended December 28, 2003.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain judgments,
estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We based our estimates and
assumptions on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed
to be applicable, and evaluated them on an on-going basis to ensure they
remained reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could differ
significantly from those estimates.

The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our
financial statements are described in Note 2 of our Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements. Some of these significant accounting polices are
considered to be critical accounting policies. A critical accounting policy is
defined as one that has both a material impact on our financial condition and
results of operations and requires us to make difficult, complex and/or
subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about
matters that are inherently uncertain.

We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the
more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition

: We recognize all revenue when persuasive evidence of
an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered,
the selling price is fixed or determinable, collectibility is reasonably
assured, and we have completed our system installation obligations, received
customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our installation or customer
acceptance obligations. In the event that terms of the sale provide for a
lapsing customer acceptance period, we recognize revenue upon the expiration of
the lapsing acceptance period or customer acceptance, whichever occurs first.
In circumstances where the practices of a customer do not provide for a written
acceptance and in addition, the terms of sale do not include a lapsing
acceptance provision, we recognize revenue where it can be reliably
demonstrated that the delivered system meets all of the agreed to customer
specifications. In situations with multiple deliverables, revenue is recognized
upon the delivery of the separate elements to the customer and when we receive
customer acceptance or are otherwise released from our customer acceptance
obligations. Consideration from multiple element arrangements is allocated
among the separate units based on their relative fair values, provided the
elements have value on a stand alone basis, there is objective and reliable
evidence of fair value, the arrangement does not include a general right of
return relative to the delivered item and delivery or performance of the
undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control.
The maximum revenue recognized on a delivered element is limited to the amount
that is not contingent upon the delivery of additional items. Revenue related
to sales of spare parts, system upgrade kits, and remanufactured systems is
generally recognized upon shipment. Revenue related to services is generally
recognized upon completion of the services requested by a customer order.
Revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed payment amount
and a term more than one month is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
term of the contract.

Inventory Valuation:

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market
using standard costs, which approximate actual costs on a first-in, first-out
basis. We maintain a perpetual inventory system and continuously record the
quantity on-hand and standard cost for each product, including purchased
components, subassemblies and finished goods. We maintain the integrity of
perpetual inventory records through periodic physical counts of quantities on
hand. Finished goods are reported as inventories until the point of title
transfer to the customer. Generally, title transfer is documented in the terms
of sale. When the terms of sale do not specify, we assume title transfers when
we complete physical transfer of the products to the freight carrier unless
other customer practices prevail.



Standard costs are re-assessed at least annually and reflect achievable
acquisition costs, generally the most recent vendor contract prices for
purchased parts, currently obtainable assembly and test labor activities, and
overhead for internally manufactured products. Manufacturing labor and overhead
costs are attributed to individual product standard costs at a level planned to
absorb spending at average utilization volumes. All intercompany profits
related to the sales and purchases of inventory between our legal entities are
eliminated from our consolidated financial statements.

Management evaluates the need to record adjustments for impairment of
inventory at least quarterly. Our policy is to assess the valuation of all
inventories, including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process, finished
goods and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or inventory
in excess of management’s estimated usage requirements over the next 12 to 36
months is written down to its estimated market value, if less than cost.
Inherent in the estimates of market value are management’s forecasts related to
our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, technological and/or
market obsolescence, general semiconductor market conditions, possible
alternative uses and ultimate realization of excess inventory. If future
customer demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections,
additional inventory write-downs may be required, and would be reflected in
cost of sales in the period the revision is made.

Warranty:

Typically, marketing and selling semiconductor capital equipment
includes providing parts and service warranty to customers as part of the
overall price of the system. We provide standard warranties for our systems
that run generally for a period of 12 months from system acceptance, not to
exceed 14 months from shipment of the system to the customer. We record a
provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales for each system upon
revenue recognition. The amount recorded is based on an analysis of historical
activity, which uses factors such as type of system, customer, geographic
region, and any known factors such as tool reliability improvements. All actual
parts and labor costs incurred in subsequent periods are charged to those
established reserves through the application of detailed project record
keeping.

Actual warranty expenses are incurred on a system-by-system basis, and may
differ from our original estimates. While we periodically monitor the
performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs incurred are
different than our estimates, we may recognize adjustments to provisions in the
period in which those differences arise or are identified. Accordingly, actual
costs that exceed the estimates are expensed as incurred, and at the same time,
additional probable and estimable liabilities may be recorded.

We do not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all warranty reserves
are related to specific systems. Historically, including the most recent fiscal
year ended June 27, 2004, all warranty obligations have been determined with
reasonable estimates.

In addition to the provision of standard warranties, we offer
customer-paid extended warranty services. Revenues for extended maintenance and
warranty services with a fixed payment amount and a term of more than one month
are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Related
costs are recorded either as incurred or when related liabilities are
determined to be probable and estimable.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Employee Stock Option Plans:

We account
for our employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) and stock option plans under the
provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25 “Accounting For
Stock Issued to Employees” (APB 25) and Interpretation No. 44, “Accounting for
Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation — an Interpretation of APB
Opinion No. 25” (FIN 44) and make pro forma footnote disclosures as required by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, “Accounting For
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure” (SFAS 148), which amends
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting For
Stock-Based Compensation” (SFAS 123). Our ESPP is a non-compensatory plan, and
our stock option plans are accounted for using the intrinsic value method under
the provisions of APB 25.

Pro forma net income (loss) and pro forma net income (loss) per share
disclosed in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements
are estimated using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. The Black-Scholes
option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of
traded options which have no vesting restrictions and which are fully
transferable. In addition, the Black-Scholes model requires the input of highly
subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and the
estimated life of each option. Because our stock-based awards to employees have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded



options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially
affect the fair value estimate, in management’s opinion the existing option
valuation models do not necessarily provide a reliable measure of the fair
value of our stock-based awards to employees.

Deferred Income Taxes:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net effect of
temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. We
record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount
that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of our net deferred
tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. We believe it is more likely
than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate realization could
be negatively impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or
anticipated at this time. In the event that we determine that we would not be
able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would
be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if
we later determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets
would be realized, then the previously provided valuation allowance would be
reversed. Our current valuation allowance of $67.8 million relates to the tax
benefit from the exercise of employee stock options and foreign tax credits.
When the stock option tax benefits are realized, the related deferred tax asset
will reverse and a portion of the valuation allowance will also be reversed and
credited to capital in excess of par value.

Off -Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

We have certain obligations, some of which are recorded on our balance
sheet and some which are not, to make future payments under various contracts.
Obligations are recorded on our balance sheet in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. The obligations recorded on our consolidated
balance sheet include long-term liabilities and restructuring liabilities which
are outlined in the following table and are discussed below. Our off-balance
sheet arrangements include contractual relationships and are presented as
operating leases and purchase obligations in the table below. Our contractual
cash obligations and commitments relating to these agreements, and our
guarantees are included in the following table:

Other

Long-term

Restructuring

Operating

Purchase

Liabilities

Liabilities

Leases

Obligations

Total

(in thousands)

Payments due by period:

Less than 1 year

$

2,500

$

5,093

$

13,894

$

108,142

$

129,629

1-3 years


6,986

13,718

54,750

76,184

4-5 years


1,748

102,034

41,498

145,342

Over 5 years

—



1,825

2,240

Total

$

3,292

$

13,854

$

130,034

$

206,215

$

353,395

Other Long-Term Liabilities

During the second quarter of fiscal 2002 we signed a final settlement
agreement with Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian) in
connection with the patent infringement litigation filed by Varian in October
1993. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Varian granted us a
non-exclusive license to the patents involved in the litigation. We agreed to
pay Varian $20.0 million in cash, $5.0 million in December 2001 and the
remainder to be paid in equal quarterly installments of $1.25 million over a
three-year period. As of June 27, 2004, a total amount of $17.5 million has
been paid to Varian and the total obligation remaining is $2.5 million through
December 2004.



Restructuring Liabilities

Our total restructuring reserves as of June 27, 2004 were $13.9 million,
including $0.6 million of severance and benefits-related costs and $13.3
million related to lease payments on vacated buildings. Through cash generated
from operations, we expect $5.1 million to be paid over the next twelve months
and $8.8 million to be paid between fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2010. Please see the
related discussion in “Restructuring Charges” within “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Operating Leases

We lease most of our administrative, R&D and manufacturing facilities,
regional sales/service offices and certain equipment under non-cancelable
operating leases, which expire at various dates through 2021. All of our
facility leases for buildings located at our Fremont, California headquarters
and certain other facility leases provide us with an option to extend the
leases for additional periods. Certain of our facility leases provide for
periodic rent increases based on the general rate of inflation.

In March and June of 2003, lease agreements relating to properties at our
Fremont, California campus were transferred to a new lessor, amended, combined
and restated. As part of the lease agreements, we have the option to purchase
the buildings at any time for a total purchase price for all properties related
to these leases of approximately $112.5 million. In addition, we are required
to guarantee the lessors a residual value on the properties of up to $98.7
million at the end of the lease terms in fiscal 2008 (in the case that the
leases are not renewed, we do not exercise the purchase options, and the lessor
sells the properties and the sale price is less than the lessor’s costs). At
the time of the June amendment, one of the leased property’s current fair value
was less than its original cost by approximately $1.0 million. The leased
property was a building that had been part of our past restructuring
activities, and the non-cash loss was recorded as a restructuring charge during
fiscal 2003. As a result, we recorded a $1.0 million liability for the loss on
the leased property. We maintain cash collateral of $112.5 million as part of
the lease agreements as of June 27, 2004 in separate, specified
interest-bearing accounts which is recorded as restricted cash in our
consolidated balance sheet. The lessor under the lease agreements is a
substantive independent leasing company that does not have the characteristics
of a variable interest entity (VIE) as defined by FIN 46, “Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities”, and is therefore not consolidated by us. The $98.7
million is included in the table above.

The remaining $31.3 million primarily relates to non-cancelable
facility-related operating leases expiring at various dates through 2021.

Purchase Obligations

Purchase obligations consist of material contractual obligations either on
an annual basis or over multi-year periods related to our outsourcing
activities or other material commitments, including vendor-consigned
inventories. We continue to enter into new agreements and maintain existing
agreements to outsource certain elements, including elements of our
manufacturing, warehousing, logistics, facilities maintenance, certain
information technology functions, and certain transactional general and
administrative functions. These outsourced services should provide us with
more flexibility to scale our operations in a more timely and efficient manner
to respond to the cyclical nature of our business. The contractual cash
obligations and commitments table presented above contains our minimum
obligations at June 27, 2004 under these arrangements and others. Actual
expenditures will vary based on the volume of transactions and length of
contractual service provided. In addition to minimum spending commitments,
certain of these agreements provide for potential cancellation charges.

Consignment inventories, which are owned by vendors but located in our
discrete storage locations and warehouses, are not reported as Lam inventory
until title is transferred to us or our purchase obligation is determined. At
June 27, 2004, vendor owned inventories held at our locations and not reported
as Lam inventory were approximately $14.6 million.



Guarantees

The transferred lease agreements relating to various properties at our
Fremont, California campus and discussed above under “Operating Leases” require
us to guarantee residual values of the leased properties to the lessors at the
end of the lease terms of up to $98.7 million (in the case that the leases are
not renewed, we do not exercise the purchase options, the lessor sells the
properties and the sale price is less than the lessor’s costs). The remaining
terms of these guarantees, four years, are equal to the remaining terms of the
related lease agreements. Under the accounting provisions of FIN 45, we
recognized a liability of approximately $1.0 million for the related residual
value guarantees under these leases. This liability, determined by computing
the present value of estimated probability weighted cash flows to be paid by us
over the term of the guarantees, was recorded as prepaid rent, with the offset
recorded as a liability, and the amount is being amortized to rent expense (for
the prepaid rent) and to income (for the liability) on a ratable basis over the
five-year period of the leases. Refer to Note 16 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements, included in Item 8 in this Form 10-K, for further information
concerning our guaranteed residual values.

We have issued certain indemnifications to our lessors under some of our
operating lease agreements, such as, indemnification for various environmental
matters. We have entered into certain insurance contracts to minimize our
exposure related to such indemnifications. As of June 27, 2004, we have not
recorded any liability on our financial statements in connection with these
indemnifications, as we do not believe, based on information available, that it
is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.

We have agreements with two financial institutions where our U.S.
operating company guarantees payment of our Japanese subsidiary’s overdraft
protection obligation. The maximum potential amount of future payments that we
could be required to make under these agreements at June 27, 2004, is
approximately $5.6 million, the amount available under the overdraft protection
agreement. As of June 27, 2004, our Japanese subsidiary did not owe any amounts
under this agreement. We have not recorded any liability in connection with
these guarantees, as we do not believe, based on information available, that it
is probable that any amounts will be paid.

We have an agreement with a financial institution to sell certain U.S.
Dollar-denominated accounts receivable generated from the sale of our systems,
subject to recourse provisions. We insure these sold receivables for
approximately 90% of their value and guarantee payment of the remaining
uninsured receivable value in the event that the payment obligation is not
satisfied. Based on historical payment patterns, we have experienced negligible
default on payment obligations and therefore, believe the risk of loss from
default is minimal. The terms of these guarantees are from 90 days past the due
date of the receivable, until collected. At June 27, 2004, the maximum
potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under this
agreement is approximately $6.0 million. As of June 27, 2004, we have not
recorded any liability on our financial statements in connection with these
guarantees, as we do not believe, based on information available, that it is
probable that any amounts will be paid.

Generally, we indemnify our customers, under pre-determined conditions and
limitations, for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by
our products or services. We seek to limit our liability for such indemnity to
an amount not to exceed the sales prices of the products or services. We do not
believe, based on information available, that it is probable that any material
amounts will be paid under these guarantees.

We provide standard warranties on our systems that run generally for a
period of 12 months from system acceptance, not to exceed 14 months from the
date of shipment of the system to the customer. The liability amount is based
on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system, customer,
and geographic region, modified for any known factors such as the impact of
system reliability improvements. See Note 16 of our Consolidated Financial
Statements, included in Item 8 in this Form 10K, for changes in our product
warranty reserves during fiscal 2004.



Liquidity and Capital Resources

As of June 27, 2004, we had $541.9 million in cash, cash equivalents,
short-term investments, and restricted cash compared with $625.9 million at
June 29, 2003. Cash provided by operating activities of $157.1 million,
issuance of common stock of $64.2 million and reissuance of treasury stock of
$13.2 million resulted in net cash increases of $234.5 million which enabled us
to repay early our 4% Notes, which resulted in a principal payment of $300.0
million. Additional significant uses of cash included capital expenditures of
$24.0 million.

On April 1, 2004, we settled our swap
which had been used to minimize the impact of interest rate exposure associated
with our 4% Notes. This settlement resulted in an increase in cash of $10.9
million and, in addition, a transfer of $6.0 million from restricted cash to
cash balances.

On June 7, 2004, we repaid our 4% Notes, two years prior to maturity.
This repayment resulted in a cash outlay of $303.0 million, including a
redemption premium of $3.0 million. Additionally, we wrote off $3.4 million of
unamortized offering expenses.

We had a deferred gain of $10.9 million recorded on the balance sheet, in
long-term debt and other long-term liabilities, related to the swap. As a
result of the settlement of the swap and the redemption of the 4% Notes, we
recorded a net gain of $4.5 million included in other income, net in our
statement of operations. The net gain is comprised of the deferred gain noted
above, less the redemption premium, write-off of unamortized offering expenses,
and transaction-related costs.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2002 we signed a final settlement
agreement with Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc. (Varian) in
connection with the patent infringement litigation filed by Varian in October
1993. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Varian granted us a
non-exclusive license to the patents involved in the litigation. We agreed to
pay Varian $20.0 million in cash, $5.0 million in December 2001 and the
remainder to be paid in equal quarterly installments of $1.25 million over a
three-year period. As of June 27, 2004, a total amount of $17.5 million has
been paid to Varian and the total obligation remaining is $2.5 million through
December 2004.

Cash Flows From Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $157.1 million in fiscal
2004, which consisted of net income for the year of $83.0 million, adjusted for
non-cash charges of $48.9 million and sources of working capital of $25.2
million. Non-cash charges include items such as depreciation and amortization,
restructuring charges, deferred income taxes, and the net non-cash gain recognized in fiscal 2004 as a result of the
early retirement of our 4% Notes.

Significant changes in assets and liabilities during fiscal year 2004
include an increase of $138.4 million in accounts receivable due to increased
sales volumes. We have an agreement with a financial institution to sell
certain U.S. dollar-denominated accounts receivable. These sales of accounts receivable are intended to accelerate
the collection of cash. We sold $158.7 million
of accounts receivable during fiscal 2004. Deferred income taxes decreased by
$10.9 million. Trade payables increased by $57.8 million due to increased
expense levels as a result of improved business volumes and timing of payments.
Accrued liabilities increased by $29.6 million primarily due to an increase in
variable incentive-based compensation as well as a rise in income taxes payable
as a result of the significant increase in profits. Deferred profits for
shipments not yet recognized as revenue rose by $63.1 million, reflecting
significantly increased rates of shipments and the timing of customer
acceptances.

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2004 was $48.5
million. We sold $66.9 million, net, of short-term investments that contributed
to the repayment of our 4% Notes in June, 2004. Net capital expenditures were
$24.0 million and focused on computer equipment and machinery.

Net property and equipment was $42.4 million at June 27, 2004, compared to
$48.8 million at June 29, 2003. This decrease is primarily due to $23.4 million
of depreciation expense, $3.8 million in write-offs of leasehold improvements
and certain fixed assets related to buildings that we have vacated due to
restructuring activities, $2.4



million in write-offs related to our decision to cease investment in CMP
systems development which, together, exceed the $24.0 million in capital
expenditures discussed above.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2004 was $211.7 million
and consisted primarily of the principal repayment of our 4% Notes in the
amount of $300.0 million. In connection with the settlement of our interest
rate swap agreement, we received proceeds of $10.9 million. We also reissued
$13.2 million from treasury stock through our employee stock purchase program
and net proceeds from the issuance of our common stock from stock option
exercises totaled $64.2 million.

Given the cyclical nature of the semiconductor equipment industry, we
believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support
sustaining levels of investment in R&D and capital infrastructure through
ensuing business cycles. Based upon our current business outlook, our levels of
cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at June 27, 2004 are
expected to be sufficient to support our presently anticipated levels of
operations, investments, and capital expenditures, through at least the next 12
months.

In the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future
revenues and our ability to appropriately size our business based on demand for
our products. Should additional funding be required, we may need to raise the
required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity
securities. We believe that, in the event of such requirements, we will be able
to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our
objectives. However, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or
other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be
available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.



Risk Factors

Our Quarterly Revenues and Operating Results are Unpredictable

Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from
quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our
control. We manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of
future revenues. If revenue levels in a particular quarter do not meet our
expectations, our operating results may be adversely affected. Because our
operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a
certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing
of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a single
transaction can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter.

Factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably
include, but are not limited to:

•

economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industry
generally and the equipment industry specifically;

•

the extent that customers use our products and services in their business;

•

timing of customer acceptances of equipment;

•

the size and timing of orders from customers;

•

customer cancellations or delays in our shipments, installations, and/or acceptances;

•

changes in average selling prices and product mix;

•

our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced and competitive products;

•

our competitors’ introduction of new products;

•

legal or technical challenges to our products and technology;

•

changes in import/export regulations;

•

transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply
disruptions based on factors outside our control such as acts of God,
wars, terrorist activities and natural disasters;

•

legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation;

•

procurement shortages;

•

manufacturing difficulties;

•

the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their
obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations;

•

new or modified accounting regulations; and

•

exchange rate fluctuations.

Further, because a significant amount of our R&D and administrative
operations and capacity is located at our Fremont, California campus, natural,
physical, logistical or other events or disruptions affecting these facilities
(including labor disruptions, earthquakes and power failures) could adversely
impact our financial performance.

We Derive Our Revenues Primarily from a Relatively Small Number of High-Priced
Systems

System sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. Our
systems can typically range in price from approximately $0.4 million to $4.8
million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the
acceptance of a rather limited number of such systems. As a result, the
inability to declare revenue on even a few systems can cause a significant
adverse impact on our revenues for that quarter.

Variations in the Amount of Time it Takes for Our Customers to Accept Our
Systems May Cause Fluctuation in Our Operating Results

We generally recognize revenue for new system sales on the date of
customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance
provisions lapse. As a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to
recognize new systems revenues may be subject to the length of time that our
customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after
shipment and installation, which could cause our quarterly operating results
to fluctuate.



The Semiconductor Equipment Industry Is Volatile and Reduced Product Demand Has
a Negative Impact on Shipments

Our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of
semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and
anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and products using integrated
circuits. The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and historically
experiences periodic downturns. Business conditions historically have changed
rapidly and unpredictably.

Fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers could
continue to materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues and operating
results. We will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management
programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams,
which sometimes result in restructuring charges. Even during periods of reduced
revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain
extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain
competitive, which may temporarily harm our financial results.

We Depend on New Products and Processes for Our Success. Consequently, We
are Subject to Risks Associated with Rapid Technological Change

Rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes
subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances enabling
such processes. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our
ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to
continue to enhance our existing products. If new products have reliability or
quality problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher
manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and
additional service and warranty expenses. We may be unable to develop and
manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may
fail in the marketplace. Our failure to complete commercialization of these new
products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory
obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results.

In order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to
make significant investments in R&D and to pursue joint development
relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. We
must manage product transitions and joint development relationships
successfully, as introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales
of existing products. Future technologies, processes or product developments
may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with
non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both.

We Are Subject to Risks Relating to Product Concentration and Lack of Product
Revenue Diversification

We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number
of products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large
percentage of our revenues in the near term. Continued market acceptance of our
primary products is, therefore, critical to our future success. Our business,
operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be
adversely affected by:

•

a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products;

•

a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products;

•

an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market we participate in;

•

technological change that we are unable to address with our products; and

•

a failure to release new enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis.

We Have a Limited Number of Key Customers

Sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant
portion of our overall revenue. As a result, the actions of even one customer
may subject us to revenue swings that are difficult to predict. Similarly,
significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated
among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these
key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our
financial results.



We Are Dependent Upon a Limited Number of Key Suppliers

We obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products
from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We have established
long-term contracts with many of these suppliers. These long-term contracts can
take a variety of forms. We may renew these contracts periodically. In some
cases, these suppliers sold us products during at least the last four years,
and we expect that we will continue to renew these contracts in the future or
that we will otherwise replace them with competent alternative suppliers.
However, several of our outsourced assembly suppliers are new providers to us
so that our experience with them and their performance is limited. Where
practical, our intent is to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk
that the failure of any single supplier will adversely affect our business.
Nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could impair
our ability to ship products, lower our revenues and thus adversely affect our
operating results and result in damage to our customer relationships.

Our Outsource Providers May Fail to Perform as We Expect

Outsource providers have played and will play key roles in our
manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative
functions. Although we aim at selecting reputable providers and secure their
performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one
or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure
could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, the expansive role
of outsource providers has required and will continue to require us to
implement changes to our existing operations and to adopt new procedures to
deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. Any delay or
failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures
could adversely affect our customer relationships and/or have a negative effect
on our operating results.

Once a Semiconductor Manufacturer Commits to Purchase a Competitor’s
Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment, the Manufacturer Typically
Continues to Purchase That Competitor’s Equipment, Making It More
Difficult for Us to Sell our Equipment to That Customer

Semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify
and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line.
We believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular
supplier’s processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that
equipment for that specific production line application. Accordingly, we expect
it to be more difficult to sell to a given customer if that customer initially
selects a competitor’s equipment.

We Are Subject to Risks Associated with Our Competitors’ Strategic
Relationships and Their Introduction of New Products and We May Lack the
Financial Resources or Technological Capabilities of Certain of Our Competitors
Needed to Capture Increased Market Share

We expect to face significant competition from multiple current and
future competitors. We believe that other companies are developing systems
and products that are competitive to ours and are planning to introduce new
products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. We face
a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with
leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we
sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell
products to those manufacturers.

We believe that to remain competitive we will require significant
financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer
service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process
R&D. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources
and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service
and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to
increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. These competitors
may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell,
challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and
threatening our ability to sell those products. For these reasons, we may fail
to continue to compete successfully worldwide.

In addition, our competitors may provide innovative technology that may
have performance advantages over systems we currently, or expect to, offer.
They may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer
or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer
requirements. In particular, while we currently are developing additional
product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements,
we



may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of
these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product
enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. Accordingly,
we may be unable to continue to compete in our markets, competition may
intensify, or future competition may have a material adverse effect on our
revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows.

Our Future Success Depends on International Sales and the Management of Global
Operations

Non-U.S. sales, as a percentage of total revenue, accounted for
approximately 82% in fiscal 2004, 72% in fiscal 2003 and 71% in fiscal 2002.
We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant
portion of our total revenue in future years. We are subject to various
challenges related to the management of global operations, and international
sales are subject to risks including, but not limited to:

•

trade balance issues;

•

regional economic and political conditions;

•

changes in currency controls;

•

differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions;

•

ability to develop relationships with local suppliers;

•

compliance with U.S. and international laws and regulations, including U.S. export restrictions;

•

fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; and

•

the need for technical support resources in different locations.

Many of these challenges are applicable in China, which is a fast
developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an
area of potential significant growth for our business. As the business volume
between China and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on
the complex relationships between China, Taiwan and the United States, that
political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions which would
adversely affect our business with China and/or Taiwan and perhaps the entire
Asia-Pacific region. A significant trade disruption in these areas could have a
material, adverse impact on our future revenue and profits.

We currently enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the
short-term impact of exchange rate fluctuations on Japanese Yen-denominated
assets and will continue to enter into hedging transactions for the purposes
outlined in the foreseeable future.

A Failure to Comply with Environmental Regulations May Adversely Affect Our
Operating Results

We are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the
discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. We
believe that we are in general compliance with these regulations and that we
have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing) all necessary
environmental permits to conduct our business. These permits generally relate
to the disposal of hazardous wastes. Nevertheless, the failure to comply with
present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us,
suspension of production, cessation of our operations or reduction in our
customers’ acceptance of our products. These regulations could require us to
alter our current operations, to acquire significant equipment or to incur
substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Our
failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances
could subject us to future liabilities.

If We Are Unable to Adjust the Scale of Our Business in Response to Rapid
Changes in Demand in the Semiconductor Equipment Industry, Our Operating
Results and Our Ability to Compete Successfully May Be Impaired

The business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry is
characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our
management to adjust spending on operating activities. During periods of rapid
growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant
challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management
processes, information systems and procedures and in training, managing, and
appropriately sizing our work force and other components of our business on a
timely basis. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability
of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to
identify and respond to these challenges effectively. If we do not adequately
meet these challenges, our gross margins and earnings may be impaired during
periods of demand decline, and we may lack the infrastructure and resources to
scale up our business to



meet customer expectations and compete successfully during periods of
demand growth.

If We Choose to Acquire or Dispose of Product Lines and Technologies, We
May Encounter Unforeseen Costs and Difficulties That Could Impair Our
Financial Performance

An important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition
prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market
coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities.
As a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or
technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or
technologies, which no longer fit our long-term strategies. Managing an
acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel
entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in
assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing
business or product groups, diversion of management’s attention away from other
business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets and potential
loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations among
others. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage
successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of
product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our
management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued
operations. Any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse
effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.

In addition, any acquisitions could result in changes such as potentially
dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent
liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill
impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our
business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of
our Common Stock.

The Market for Our Common Stock is Extremely Volatile, Which May Affect Our
Ability to Raise Capital or Make Acquisitions

The market price for our Common Stock is extremely volatile and has
fluctuated significantly over the past years. The trading price of our Common
Stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to
factors, including but not limited to the following:

•

general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions;

•

global economic fluctuations;

•

variations in our quarterly operating results;

•

variations in our revenues or earnings from levels that securities analysts forecast;

•

announcements of restructurings, technological innovations, reductions in
force, departure of key employees, consolidations of operations, or
introduction of new products;

•

government regulations;

•

developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights;

•

success or failure of our new and existing products;

•

disruptions with key customers or suppliers; or

•

political, economic, or environmental events occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions.

In addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume
fluctuations. Historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the
price of our Common Stock due in part to the actual or anticipated movement in
interest rates and the price of and markets for semiconductors. These broad
market and industry factors have and may again adversely affect the price of
our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past,
following volatile periods in the price of stock, many companies became the
object of securities class action litigation. If we are sued in a securities
class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert
management’s attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on the
price for our Common Stock.



We Rely Upon Certain Critical Information Systems for the Operation of our
Business

We maintain and rely upon certain critical Information Systems for the
effective operation of our business. These Information Systems include
telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer
hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. These
Information Systems may be owned by us or by our outsource providers or even
third parties such as vendors and contractors and may be maintained by us or by
such providers and third parties. These Information Systems are subject to
attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources
including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical
damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking
equipment. To the extent that these Information Systems are under our control,
we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and
emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks; however, security
procedures for Information Systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our
inability to use or access these Information Systems at critical points in time
could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business.

The Potential Anti-Takeover Effects of Our Bylaws Provisions and the Rights
Plan We Have in Place May Affect Our Stock Price and Inhibit a Change of
Control Desired by Some of Our Stockholders

In 1997, we adopted a Rights Plan (the Rights Plan) in which rights were
distributed as a dividend at the rate of one right for each share of our Common
Stock, held by stockholders of record as of the close of business on January
31, 1997, and thereafter. In connection with the adoption of the Rights Plan,
our Board of Directors also adopted a number of amendments to our Bylaws,
including amendments requiring advance notice of stockholder nominations of
directors and stockholder proposals.

Our Rights Plan may have certain anti-takeover effects. Our Rights Plan
will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire
Lam in certain circumstances. Accordingly, the existence of the Rights Plan
and the issuance of the related rights may deter certain acquirers from making
takeover proposals or tender offers. The Rights Plan, however, is not intended
to prevent a takeover. Rather it is designed to enhance the ability of our
Board of Directors to negotiate with a potential acquirer on behalf of all of
our stockholders.

In addition, our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes issuance of
5,000,000 shares of undesignated Preferred Stock. Our Board of Directors,
without further stockholder approval, may issue this Preferred Stock on such
terms as the Board of Directors may determine, which also could have the effect
of delaying or preventing a change in control of Lam. The issuance of Preferred
Stock could also adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our Common
Stock, including causing the loss of voting control. Moreover, Section 203 of
the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts certain business combinations
with “interested stockholders”, as defined by that statute.

Intellectual Property and Other Claims Against Us Can Be Costly and Could
Result in the Loss of Significant Rights Which Are Necessary to Our Continued
Business and Profitability

Third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition or other claims
against us. From time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our
products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. In
addition, our Bylaws and indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify
officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings
resulting from their service to Lam. In such cases, it is our policy either to
defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially
reasonable terms. However, we may be unable in the future to negotiate
necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially
reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by
other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial
results.



We May Fail to Protect Our Proprietary Technology Rights, Which Would Affect
Our Business

Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. While we
attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and
trade secret protection, we believe that our success also depends on increasing
our technological expertise, continuing our development of new systems,
increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base, and providing
comprehensive support and service to our customers. However, we may be unable
to protect our technology in all instances, or our competitors may develop
similar or more competitive technology independently. We currently hold a
number of United States and foreign patents and pending patent applications.
However, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any
patents the United States or foreign governments issue to us or these
governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications. In addition,
the rights granted or anticipated under any of these patents or pending patent
applications may be narrower than we expect or, in fact provide no competitive
advantages.

Compliance with
Internal Control Attestation and Outside Audit Firm Independence

Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we will be
required, beginning with our fiscal year ending June 26, 2005, to include in
our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of
fiscal 2005. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm
(Firm) will be required to attest to whether our assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is fairly stated
in all material respects and separately report on whether it believes we
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of June 26, 2005. We have not yet completed our assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control. If we fail to timely complete this
assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot
timely attest to our assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions
and a loss of public confidence in our internal control. In addition, any
failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties
encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause
us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations.

Our independent registered public accounting firm communicates with us at
least annually regarding any relationships between the Firm and the Company
that, in the Firm’s professional judgment, might have a bearing on
the Firm’s independence with respect to the Company. If , for whatever reason, our independent registered
public accounting firm finds that it cannot confirm that it is
independent of the Company based on existing securities laws and
registered public accounting firm independence standards, we could experience delays or other failures to meet our
regulatory reporting obligations.



Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates
primarily to our investment portfolio and long-term debt obligations. We
maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and
preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and
reinvestment risk. The table below presents principal amounts and related
weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment
portfolio, long-term assets and long-term debt obligations at June 27, 2004 and
June 29, 2003:

June 29,

June 27, 2004


There-

Fair






After

Total

Value

Total

(in thousands)

Cash equivalents

Fixed rate

$

57,739

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

57,739

$

57,739

$

119,805

Average rate

1.20

%

—

—

—

—

—

1.20

%

—

1.14

%

Short-term investments

Fixed rate

$

59,756

$

123,851

$

63,330

$

15,471

$


$

—

$

263,009

$

261,069

$

232,718

Average rate

1.78

%

2.24

%

3.27

%

3.63

%

4.60

%

—

2.47

%

—

2.20

%

Auction rate preferreds

Variable rate

$

4,998

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

4,998

$

5,000

$

106,186

Average rate

1.29

%

—

—

—

—

—

1.29

%

—

1.48

%

Restricted cash

Fixed rate

$

112,468

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

112,468

$

112,468

$

118,468

Average rate

1.00

%

—

—

—

—

—

1.00

%

—

1.06

%

Total investment securities

$

234,961

$

123,851

$

63,330

$

15,471

$


$

—

$

438,214

$

436,276

$

577,177

Average rate

1.25

%

2.24

%

3.27

%

3.63

%

4.60

%

1.91

%

—

1.61

%

Long-term debt

Fixed rate

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

300,000

Average Rate

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

—

4.00

%

We mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities
and by constantly positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a
significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor.
The portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or
resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of
diversification.

We had no foreign exchange cash flow exposure related to our fixed rate 4%
Notes.

We conduct business on a global basis in several major international
currencies. As such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as
beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. For this reason, we
enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the impact of
exchange rate fluctuations on the value of our Japanese Yen-denominated assets.
The changes in the fair value of these contracts are recorded in other income
and expense. In addition, we periodically hedge anticipated cash flow
transactions with foreign currency forward contracts. We defer the gains and
losses on these contracts and recognize them in income during the same period
as the hedged transaction is recognized in income.

On June 27, 2004, the notional amount of outstanding Japanese Yen forward
contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges was $48.1 million. The
unrealized gain on the contracts on June 27, 2004, was $0.1 million. A 15%
appreciation of the Japanese Yen would result in an unrealized loss of $8.5
million. Depreciation in the exchange rate of the Japanese Yen of approximately
15% would result in an unrealized gain of $6.2 million.



Item 8.

Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Consolidated Financial Statements required by this Item are set forth
on the pages indicated at Item 15(a). The unaudited quarterly results of our
operations for our two most recent fiscal years are incorporated herein by
reference under Item 6, “Selected Consolidated Financial Data”.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

As of the close of our fiscal year ended June 27, 2004, we carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial
Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 13a-15. Based
upon that evaluation, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer along with our
Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures
are reasonably effective in timely alerting them to material information
relating to the Company (including our consolidated subsidiaries) required to
be included in our periodic SEC filings.

We intend to review and evaluate the design and effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures on an ongoing basis and to correct any
material deficiencies that we may discover. Our goal is to ensure that our
senior management has timely access to material information that could affect
our business. While we believe the present design of our disclosure controls
and procedures is reasonably effective to achieve our goal, future events
affecting our business may cause us to modify our disclosure controls and
procedures. The effectiveness of controls cannot be absolute because the cost
to design and implement a control to identify errors or mitigate the risk of
errors occurring should not outweigh the potential loss caused by the errors
that would likely be detected by the control. Moreover, we believe that
disclosure controls and procedures cannot be guaranteed to be 100% effective
all of the time. Accordingly, a control system, no matter how well designed and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control
system’s objectives will be met.

PART III

We have omitted from this Report certain information required by Part III
because we, as the Registrant, will file a definitive proxy statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) within 120 days after the end of our
fiscal year, pursuant to Regulation 14A, as promulgated by the SEC, for our
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held November 4, 2004 (the Proxy
Statement), and certain information included therein is incorporated herein by
reference. (However, the Report of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee
and the Comparative Stock Performance graph of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement
are expressly not incorporated by reference herein.) For information regarding
our executive officers, see Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption
“Executive Officers of the Company”, which information is incorporated herein
by this reference.

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information concerning our directors required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement under the heading “Proposal
No. 1-Election of Directors.”

Lam has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all employees, officers,
and directors of the Company. Our Code of Ethics is publicly available on the
investor relations page of our website at www.lamrc.com. To the extent
required by law, any amendments to, or waivers from, any provision of the Code
of Ethics will promptly be disclosed to the public. To the extent permitted by
such legal requirements, we intend to make such public disclosure by posting
the relevant material on our website in accordance with SEC rules.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to our
Proxy Statement under the heading “Executive Compensation and Other
Information.”

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to our
Proxy Statement under the headings “Proposal No. 1-Election of Directors”,
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” and
“Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans.”

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to our
Proxy Statement under the heading “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions”.



Item 14.

Principal Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fees and Services

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to our
Proxy Statement under the heading “Relationship with Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm.”



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)

1. Index to Financial Statements

Page

Consolidated Balance Sheets — June 27, 2004 and June 29, 2003


Consolidated Statements of Operations — Years Ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003, and June 30, 2002


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — Years Ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003, and June 30, 2002


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity — Years Ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003, and June 30, 2002


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


2.

Index to Financial Statement Schedules

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


Schedules, other than those listed above, have been omitted since
they are not applicable/not required, or the information is included
elsewhere herein.

3.

See (c) of this Item 15, which is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

None.

(c)

The list of Exhibits is set forth on pages 80 to 82 of this Form
10-K and are incorporated herein by this reference.



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(in thousands, except per share data)

June 27,

June 29,



ASSETS

Cash and cash equivalents

$

163,403

$

167,343

Short-term investments

266,069

340,070

Accounts receivable, less allowance for
doubtful accounts of $3,865 in 2004
and $3,789 in 2003

245,508

107,602

Inventories

108,249

112,016

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

10,428

12,679

Deferred income taxes

102,731

133,066

Total current assets

896,388

872,776

Property and equipment, net

42,444

48,771

Restricted cash

112,468

118,468

Deferred income taxes

106,505

87,032

Other assets

40,821

71,228

Total assets

$

1,198,626

$

1,198,275

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Trade accounts payable

$

93,394

$

35,518

Accrued expenses and other current liabilities

172,343

131,144

Deferred profit

108,369

45,309

Current portion of long-term debt and other
long-term liabilities

2,500

5,011

Total current liabilities

376,606

216,982

Long-term debt and other long-term
liabilities less current portion

9,554

332,209

Total liabilities

386,160

549,191

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, at par value of $0.001 per
share; authorized -
5,000 shares, none outstanding

—

—

Common stock, at par value of $0.001 per
share; authorized -
400,000 shares; issued and outstanding -
134,988 shares at
June 27, 2004 and 127,435 shares at June
29, 2003



Additional paid-in capital

628,076

560,273

Deferred stock-based compensation

(1,839

)

(2,769

)

Treasury stock, at cost, 1,385 shares at June
27, 2004 and
2,712 shares at June 29, 2003

(19,742

)

(38,670

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(15,283

)

(13,694

)

Retained earnings

221,119

143,817

Total stockholders’ equity

812,466

649,084

Total liabilities and stockholders’
equity

$

1,198,626

$

1,198,275

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(in thousands, except per share data)

YEAR ENDED

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




Total revenue

$

935,946

$

755,234

$

943,114

Cost of goods sold

506,548

452,369

632,319

Cost of
goods sold — restructuring charges
(recoveries)

(1,651

)

(964

)

5,926

Cost of goods sold — patent
settlement

—

—

38,780

Total cost of goods sold

504,897

451,405

677,025

Gross margin

431,049

303,829

266,089

Research and development

170,479

160,493

179,217

Selling, general and
administrative

146,063

132,820

161,860

Restructuring charges, net

8,327

15,901

44,850

Total operating expenses

324,869

309,214

385,927

Operating income (loss)

106,180

(5,385

)

(119,838

)

Other income (expense):

Interest income

9,915

15,804

31,703

Interest expense

(4,634

)

(6,096

)

(26,185

)

Loss on equity derivative
contracts in Company stock
(EITF 00-19)

—

(16,407

)

(8,236

)

Net gain on settlement of
swap and early retirement
of 4% Notes

4,505

—

—

Other, net

(5,316

)

(3,561

)

(5,439

)

4,470

(10,260

)

(8,157

)

Income (loss) before
income taxes

110,650

(15,645

)

(127,995

)

Income tax expense (benefit)

27,662

(7,906

)

(37,944

)

Net income (loss)

$

82,988

$

(7,739

)

$

(90,051

)

Net income (loss) per share:

Basic

$

0.63

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

Diluted

$

0.59

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

Number of shares used in per
share calculations:

Basic

131,776

126,300

126,356

Diluted

144,928

126,300

126,356

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(in thousands)

YEAR ENDED

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

Net income (loss)

$

82,988

$

(7,739

)

$

(90,051

)

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided
by operating activities:

Loss on equity derivative contracts in Company stock

—

16,407

8,236

Depreciation

23,418

30,490

49,541

Amortization

4,822

8,263

8,273

Deferred income taxes

10,862

(8,640

)

(34,166

)

Restructuring charges, net

6,676

14,937

50,776

Amortization of premiums on securities

3,966

6,214

6,524

Patent settlement

—

—

33,780

Asset impairment charge

3,025

—

9,500

Loss on disposal of long-lived assets


1,372

3,124

Amortization of deferred stock-based compensation

3,167


—

Net noncash gain on retirement of 4%
Notes

(7,505

)

—

—

Other, net

(251

)


2,835

Changes in working capital accounts:

Accounts receivable, net of allowance

(297,054

)

(84,516

)

44,468

Sales of accounts receivable

158,693

108,175

73,778

Inventories

5,136

63,454

96,511

Prepaid expenses and other assets

6,528

(2,852

)

6,255

Trade accounts payable

57,847

(24,306

)

5,237

Deferred profit

63,105

(18,390

)

(187,435

)

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

29,573

(34,899

)

(65,389

)

Tax benefit from employee stock options

1,421

—

—

Net cash provided by operating activities

157,149

69,242

21,797

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:

Capital expenditures

(24,026

)

(12,264

)

(10,619

)

Purchases of available-for-sale securities

(463,476

)

(671,068

)

(2,734,748

)

Sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities

530,406

1,026,558

2,669,349

Transfer of restricted cash upon settlement of swap

6,000

—

—

Purchase of investments for restricted cash, net

—

(47,485

)

(10,500

)

Other, net

(398

)


(1,609

)

Net cash provided by/(used for) investing activities

48,506

296,358

(88,127

)

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:

Principal payments on long-term debt and
capital lease obligations

(300,012

)

(361,407

)

(8,693

)

Proceeds from settlement of swap

10,870

—

—

Treasury stock purchases

—

(39,122

)

(10,678

)

Reissuances of treasury stock

13,242

12,499

16,292

Proceeds from issuance of common stock

64,152

14,683

19,383

Net cash provided by/(used for) financing activities

(211,748

)

(373,347

)

16,304

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash

2,153

2,659


Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

(3,940

)

(5,088

)

(49,228

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

167,343

172,431

221,659

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

163,403

$

167,343

$

172,431

Supplemental disclosures:

Cash payments for interest

$

13,600

$

20,036

$

28,717

Cash payments for income taxes

$

4,165

$

5,674

$

4,564

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(in thousands)

DEFERRED

ACCUMULATED

COMMON

ADDITIONAL

STOCK-

OTHER

STOCK

COMMON

PAID-IN

TREASURY

BASED

COMPREHENSIVE

RETAINED

SHARES

STOCK

CAPITAL

STOCK

COMPENSATION

INCOME (LOSS)

EARNINGS

TOTAL

Balance at June 24, 2001

124,917

$


$

498,066

$

(21,904

)

$

—

$

(18,195

)

$

254,281

$

712,373

Sale of common stock

2,491


22,682

—

—

—

—

22,685

Warrant issued

—

—

21,480

—

—

—

—

21,480

Purchase of treasury stock

(615

)

(1

)

—

(10,678

)

—

—

—

(10,679

)

Reissuance of treasury stock

1,185


—

23,482

—

—

(7,190

)

16,293

Components of
comprehensive loss:

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

(90,051

)

(90,051

)

Foreign currency translation
adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

6,674

—

6,674

Unrealized loss on fair
value of derivative
financial instruments, net

—

—

—

—

—

(3,719

)

—

(3,719

)

Total comprehensive loss

(87,096

)

Balance at June 30, 2002

127,978


542,228

(9,100

)

—

(15,240

)

157,040

675,056

Sale of common stock

1,696


14,683

—

—

—

—

14,685

Purchase of treasury stock

(3,497

)

(4

)

—

(47,553

)

—

—

—

(47,557

)

Reissuance of treasury stock

1,258


—

17,983

—

—

(5,484

)

12,500

Deferred stock-based
compensation

—

—

3,362

—

(3,362

)

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred
compensation

—

—

—

—


—

—


Components of
comprehensive loss:

Net loss

—

—

—

—

—

—

(7,739

)

(7,739

)

Foreign currency translation
adjustment

—

—

—

—

—

1,305

—

1,305

Unrealized loss on fair
value of derivative
financial instruments, net

—

—

—

—

—

(925

)

—

(925

)

Unrealized gain on financial
instruments, net

—

—

—

—

—

1,166

—

1,166

Total comprehensive loss

(6,193

)

Balance at June 29, 2003

127,435


560,273

(38,670

)

(2,769

)

(13,694

)

143,817

649,084

Sale of common stock

6,224


64,145

—

—

—

—

64,152

Income tax benefit from stock
option transactions

—

1,421

—

—

—

—

1,421

Reissuance of treasury stock

1,329


—

18,928

—

—

(5,686

)

13,243

Deferred stock-based
compensation

—

—

2,237

—

(2,237

)

—

—

—

Amortization of deferred
compensation

—

—

—

—

3,167

—

—

3,167

Components of
comprehensive income:

Net income

—

—

—

—

—

82,988

82,988

Foreign currency translation
adjustment

—

—

—

—

1,808

—

1,808

Unrealized loss on fair
value of derivative
financial instruments, net

—

—

—

—

(293

)

—

(293

)

Unrealized loss on financial
instruments, net

—

—

—

—

(2,665

)

—

(2,665

)

Less: reclassification
adjustment for gains included
in earnings

(439

)

(439

)

Total comprehensive income

81,399

Balance at June 27, 2004

134,988

$


$

628,076

$

(19,742

)

$

(1,839

)

$

(15,283

)

$

221,119

$

812,466

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

JUNE 27, 2004

Note 1: Company and Industry Information

Lam Research Corporation (Lam or the Company) is a major supplier of wafer
fabrication equipment and services to the world’s semiconductor industry. The
Company’s product offerings include single-wafer plasma etch systems that are
used in a wide range of applications, clean products used to perform mechanical
and chemical cleaning in a single-step process, and an array of services
designed to optimize the utilization of these systems by its customers. The
Company sells its products and services primarily to companies involved in the
production of semiconductors in the United States, Europe, Japan, and Asia
Pacific.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company decided to cease further
investment in chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) systems development. This decision was based on the
conclusion that the product did not demonstrate sufficient advantages to garner
the market share necessary for adequate returns on further investment.

The semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and has historically
experienced periodic downturns and upturns. Over the past three business
cycles, the severity of these fluctuations has increased, and today’s leading
indicators of changes in customer investment patterns may not be any more
reliable than in prior years. Demand for our equipment can vary significantly
from period to period as a result of various factors, including, but not
limited to, economic conditions, supply, demand, and prices for semiconductors,
customer capacity requirements, and the Company’s ability to develop and market
competitive products. Certain of the components and subassemblies included in
the Company’s products are obtained from a single supplier or a limited group
of suppliers. The Company believes that alternative sources could be obtained
and qualified to supply these products. Nevertheless, a prolonged inability to
obtain certain components could have a severe near-term effect on the Company’s
operating results and could result in damage to customer relationships. For
these and other reasons, our results of operations for the year ended June 27,
2004 may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results.

Note 2: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgments,
estimates, and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. The Company based its
estimates and assumptions on historical experience and on various other
assumptions believed to be applicable, and evaluates them on an on-going basis
to ensure they remain reasonable under current conditions. Actual results could
differ significantly from those estimates.

Revenue Recognition

: The Company recognizes all revenue when persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been
rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collectibility is
reasonably assured, and the Company has completed its system installation
obligations, received customer acceptance or is otherwise released from its
installation or customer acceptance obligations. In the event that terms of the
sale provide for a lapsing customer acceptance period, the Company recognizes
revenue upon the expiration of the lapsing acceptance period or customer
acceptance, whichever occurs first. In circumstances where the practices of a
customer do not provide for a written acceptance and in addition, the terms of
sale do not include a lapsing acceptance provision, the Company recognizes
revenue where it can be reliably demonstrated that the delivered system meets
all of the agreed to customer specifications. In situations with multiple
deliverables, revenue is recognized upon the delivery of the separate elements
to the customer and when the Company receives customer acceptance or is
otherwise released from its customer acceptance obligations. Consideration
from multiple element arrangements is allocated among the separate units based
on their relative fair values, provided the elements have value on a stand
alone basis, there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value, the
arrangement does not include a general right of return relative to the
delivered item and delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is
considered probable and substantially in the Company’s control. The maximum
revenue recognized on a delivered element is limited to the amount that is not
contingent upon the delivery of additional items. Revenue related to sales of
spare parts, system upgrade kits, and remanufactured systems is generally
recognized upon shipment. Revenue related to services is generally recognized
upon completion of performance of the services requested by a customer



order. Revenue for extended maintenance service contracts with a fixed
payment amount and a term more than one month is recognized on a straight-line
basis over the term of the contract.

Inventory Valuation:

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market
using standard costs, which approximate actual costs on a first-in, first-out
basis. The Company maintains a perpetual inventory system and continuously
records the quantity on-hand and standard cost for each product, including
purchased components, subassemblies and finished goods. The Company maintains
the integrity of perpetual inventory records through periodic physical counts
of quantities on hand. Finished goods are reported as inventories until the
point of title transfer to the customer. Generally, title transfer is
documented in the terms of sale. When the terms of sale do not specify, the
Company assumes title transfers when it completes physical transfer of the
products to the freight carrier unless other customer practices prevail.

Standard costs are re-assessed at least annually and reflect achievable
acquisition costs, generally the most recent vendor contract prices for
purchased parts, currently obtainable assembly and test labor activities, and
overhead for internally manufactured products. Manufacturing labor and overhead
costs are attributed to individual product standard costs at a level planned to
absorb spending at average utilization volumes. All intercompany profits
related to the sale and purchase of inventory between Lam’s legal entities are
eliminated from the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Management evaluates the need to record adjustments for impairment of
inventory at least quarterly. The Company’s policy is to assess the valuation
of all inventories, including manufacturing raw materials, work-in-process,
finished goods and spare parts in each reporting period. Obsolete inventory or
inventory in excess of management’s estimated usage requirements over the next
12 to 36 months is written-down to its estimated market value, if less than
cost. Inherent in the estimates of market value are management’s forecasts
related to the Company’s future manufacturing schedules, customer demand,
technological and/or market obsolescence, general semiconductor market
conditions, possible alternative uses and ultimate realization of excess
inventory. If future customer demand or market conditions are less favorable
than the Company’s projections, additional inventory write-downs may be
required, and would be reflected in cost of sales in the period the revision is
made.

Warranty:

Typically, marketing and selling semiconductor capital equipment
includes providing parts and service warranty to customers as part of the
overall price of the system. The Company provides standard warranties for its
systems that run generally for a period of 12 months from system acceptance,
not to exceed 14 months from shipment of the system to the customer. The
Company records a provision for estimated warranty expenses to cost of sales
for each system upon revenue recognition. The amount recorded is based on an
analysis of historical activity, which uses factors such as type of system,
customer, geographic region, and any known differences such as tool reliability
improvements. All actual parts and labor costs incurred in subsequent periods
are charged to those established reserves through the application of detailed
project record keeping.

Actual warranty expenses are incurred on a system-by-system basis, and may
differ from the Company’s original estimates. While the Company periodically
monitors the performance and cost of warranty activities, if actual costs
incurred are different than the Company’s estimates, it may recognize
adjustments to provisions in the period in which those differences arise or are
identified. Accordingly, actual costs that exceed the estimates are expensed as
incurred, and at the same time, additional probable and estimable liabilities
may be recorded.

The Company does not maintain general or unspecified reserves; all
warranty reserves are related to specific systems. Historically, including the
most recent year ended June 27, 2004, all warranty obligations have been
determined with reasonable estimates.

In addition to the provision of standard warranties, the Company offers
customer-paid extended warranty services. Revenues for extended maintenance and
warranty services with a fixed payment amount and a term of more than one month
are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Related
costs are recorded either as incurred or when related liabilities are
determined to be probable and estimable.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan and Employee Stock Option Plans:

The Company
accounts for its employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) and stock option plans
under the provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25
“Accounting For Stock Issued to Employees” (APB 25) and Interpretation No. 44,
“Accounting for Certain



Transactions Involving Stock Compensation — an Interpretation of APB
Opinion No. 25” (FIN 44) and makes pro forma footnote disclosures as required
by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, “Accounting For
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure” (SFAS 148), which amends
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, “Accounting For
Stock-Based Compensation” (SFAS 123). The Company’s ESPP is a non-compensatory
plan, and its stock option plans are accounted for using the intrinsic value
method under the provisions of APB 25.

Pro forma information regarding net income (loss) and net income (loss)
per share is required by SFAS 123 and SFAS 148 as if the Company had accounted
for its stock option and stock purchase plans under the fair value method of
SFAS 123 and SFAS 148. Pro forma net income (loss) and pro forma net income
(loss) per share disclosed in the footnotes to the Company’s consolidated
financial statements are estimated using a Black-Scholes option valuation
model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions
and which are fully transferable. In addition, the Black-Scholes model requires
the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price
volatility and the estimated life of each option. The
fair value of the Company’s stock-based awards to employees was estimated
assuming no expected dividends and the following weighted-average assumptions:

Options

ESPP

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,







Expected life (years)

3.3

2.4

3.8

0.60

0.63

0.42

Expected stock price volatility

74.1

%

74.0

%

71.0

%

74.1

%

74.0

%

71.0

%

Risk-free interest rate

2.3

%

1.5

%

4.1

%

2.3

%

1.5

%

4.1

%

For pro forma purposes, the estimated fair value of the Company’s
stock-based awards is amortized over the option’s vesting period (for options)
and the respective four, six, twelve, or sixteen-month purchase periods for
stock purchases under the employee stock purchase plan. The following table
illustrates the effect on net income (loss) and net income (loss) per share if
the Company had accounted for its stock option and stock purchase plans under
the fair value method of accounting under SFAS 123 and SFAS 148:

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands, except per share data)

Net income (loss) — as reported

$

82,988

$

(7,739

)

$

(90,051

)

Add: compensation expense recorded under APB 25, net of tax

2,336


1,724

Deduct: SFAS 123 compensation expense, net of tax

(27,128

)

(43,226

)

(34,524

)

Net income (loss) — pro forma

$

58,196

$

(50,349

)

$

(122,851

)

Basic net income (loss) per share — as reported

$

0.63

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

Basic net income (loss) per share — pro forma

0.44

(0.40

)

(0.97

)

Diluted net income (loss) per share — as reported

0.59

(0.06

)

(0.71

)

Diluted net income (loss) per share — pro forma

$

0.42

$

(0.40

)

$

(0.97

)



Deferred Income Taxes:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net effect of
temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for
financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The
Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the
amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Realization of the
Company’s net deferred tax assets is dependent on future taxable income. The
Company believes it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized;
however, ultimate realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions
and other variables not known or anticipated at this time. In the event that
the Company determines that it would not be able to realize all or part of its
net deferred tax assets, an adjustment would be charged to earnings in the
period such determination is made. Likewise, if the Company later determines
that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets would be realized,
the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. The Company’s
current valuation allowance of $67.8 million relates to the tax benefit from
the exercise of employee stock options and foreign tax credits. When the stock
option tax benefits are realized, the related deferred tax asset will reverse
and a portion of the valuation allowance will also be reversed and credited to
capital in excess of par value.

Fiscal Year:

The Company follows a 52/53-week fiscal reporting calendar
and its fiscal year ends on the last Sunday of June each year. The Company’s
most recent fiscal year ended on June 27, 2004 and included 52 weeks. The
fiscal year ended on June 29, 2003 also included 52 weeks. The Company’s next
fiscal year, ending on June 26, 2005, will include 52 weeks.

Principles of Consolidation:

The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments:

All investments purchased
with an original maturity of three months or less are considered to be cash
equivalents. All of the Company’s short-term investments are classified as
available-for-sale at the respective balance sheet dates. The Company accounts
for its investment portfolio at fair value. The investments classified as
available-for-sale are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices,
and any material temporary difference between the cost and fair value of an
investment is presented as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). The specific identification method is used to
determine the realized gains and losses on investments.

Property and Equipment:

Property and equipment is stated at cost.
Equipment is depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the assets, generally three to seven years. Leasehold improvements are
amortized by the straight-line method over the shorter of the life of the
related asset or the term of the underlying lease.

Restructuring Charges:

In July 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 146
“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities” (SFAS 146).
SFAS 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with
exit or disposal activities and nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No.
94-3, “Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and
Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a
Restructuring)” (EITF 94-3). The Company early-adopted SFAS 146 in the quarter
ended December 29, 2002. SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost
associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the liability
is incurred, rather than when the exit or disposal plan is approved.
Accordingly, restructuring accruals are recorded when management, with the
proper level of authority, approves the specific actions under a plan,
communicates the reduction activities and severance packages to the affected
employees, and vacates the facilities, or otherwise terminates a contract in
accordance with its terms, included in the plan. Accruals related to vacated
facilities are calculated net of estimated sublease income, and leasehold
improvements related to vacated facilities are written off as these items have
no future economic benefit. Sublease income is estimated based on current
market estimates. If the Company is unable to sublet the vacated properties on
a timely basis, the Company adjusts the accrual accordingly.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

: The Company routinely considers whether
indicators of impairment of long-lived assets are present. If such indicators
are present, the Company determines whether the sum of the estimated
undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets in question is less than
their carrying value. If the sum is less, the Company recognizes an impairment
loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their
respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash
flows, appraisals or other methods. If the



assets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, the Company
recognizes an impairment charge to the extent the present value of anticipated
net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset’s carrying
value. The fair value of the asset then becomes the asset’s new carrying value,
which the Company depreciates over the remaining estimated useful life of the
asset. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying
amount or fair value less cost to sell.

Investments in Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to Lam Research
Corporation Stock:

In November 2000, the FASB’s Emerging Issues Task Force
(EITF) reached final consensus on EITF Issue No. 00-19, “Determination of
Whether Share Settlement is Within the Control of the Issuer,” for the purposes
of applying EITF Issue No. 96-13, “Accounting for Derivative Financial
Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock”
(EITF 00-19). EITF Issue No. 96-13 addresses accounting for equity derivative
contracts indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company’s own stock (equity
derivatives) by providing guidance for distinguishing between permanent equity,
temporary equity and assets and liabilities.

The Company’s equity derivatives included certain put and call options
indexed to its own stock. Application of EITF 00-19 required these instruments
to be recorded at their fair value at the end of each reporting period and the
changes in fair value recorded as a gain or loss on the Company’s statement of
operations. These equity derivatives were collateralized by restricted cash and
could not be settled in unregistered shares. They were classified as other
short-term assets and were settled in the first quarter of fiscal 2003 (See
Note 5).

Derivative Financial Instruments:

The Company holds or has held derivative
financial instruments to hedge a variety of risk exposures including interest
rate risks associated with its long-term debt, foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations on the value of its cash flows from forecasted revenue denominated
in Japanese Yen and foreign currency denominated assets. Derivatives that
qualify for hedge accounting are discussed in detail in Note 4 to these
consolidated financial statements.

The Company does not purchase derivatives for speculative or for trading
purposes. To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge relationship must meet
criteria relating both to the derivative instrument and the hedged item. These
include identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature
of the risk being hedged and how the hedging instrument’s effectiveness in
offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item’s fair value or cash
flows will be measured.

When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as effective hedges
of identified fair value exposures, the Company is able to offset changes in
the fair value of the identified exposures by changes in the fair value of the
hedging instruments. When derivative instruments are designated and qualify as
effective cash flow hedges, the Company is able to defer changes in the fair
value of the hedging instrument within accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) until the hedged exposure is realized. Consequently, with the exception
of hedge ineffectiveness recognized, the Company’s results of operations are
not subject to fluctuation as a result of changes in the fair value of the
derivative instruments. If hedges are not highly effective or if the Company
does not believe that forecasted transactions would occur, the Company may not
be able to account for its investments in derivative instruments as hedges. If
this were to occur in a future period, changes in the fair values of the
Company’s derivative instruments would be recognized in operations without the
benefits of offsets or deferrals of changes in fair value arising from hedge
accounting treatment.

To hedge foreign currency risks, the Company uses foreign currency
exchange forward contracts, where possible and practical. These forward
contracts are valued using standard valuation formulas with assumptions about
future foreign currency exchange rates derived from existing exchange rates and
interest rates observed in the market.

The Company considers its most current outlook in determining the level of
foreign currency denominated intercompany revenues to hedge. The Company
combines these forecasts with historical trends to establish the portion of its
expected volume to be hedged. The revenues are hedged for exposures to
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Should the level of revenues
expected not occur, the Company’s investments in derivatives used to hedge
changes in foreign currency exchange rates may not qualify for hedge
accounting.

The Company redeemed its convertible
subordinated 4% notes (4% Notes) and settled its interest rate swap agreement (the swap)
during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004. See Note
4 for additional information. The Company paid a variable interest rate and



received a fixed interest rate as part of the swap, which was used to hedge
interest rate risk in connection with the Company’s 4% Notes. This instrument was valued using the market standard
methodology of netting the discounted future fixed cash receipts and the
discounted expected variable cash payments arising under the swap. The variable
cash payments were based on an expectation of future interest rates derived
from observed market interest rate curves. The values of these derivatives
changed over time as cash receipts and payments were made and as market
conditions changed.

The Company does not believe that it is or was exposed to more than a
nominal amount of credit risk in its interest rate and foreign currency hedges,
as counterparties are established and well-capitalized financial institutions.
The Company’s exposures are in liquid currencies (Japanese Yen), so there is
minimal risk that appropriate derivatives to maintain its hedging program would
not be available in the future.

Guarantees:

The Company accounts for guarantees in accordance with FASB
Interpretation No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for
Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees to Others, an interpretation of FASB
Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and a rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34”
(FIN 45). Accordingly, the Company evaluates its guarantees to determine
whether (a) the guarantee is specifically excluded from the scope of FIN 45,
(b) the guarantee is subject to FIN 45 disclosure requirements only, but not
subject to the initial recognition and measurement provisions, or (c) the
guarantee is required to be recorded in the financial statements at fair value.
The Company has recorded a liability for certain guaranteed residual values
related to specific facility lease agreements. The Company has evaluated its
remaining guarantees and has concluded that they are either not within the
scope of FIN 45 or do not require recognition in the financial statements.
These guarantees generally include certain indemnifications to its lessors
under operating lease agreements for environmental matters, potential overdraft
protection obligations to financial institutions related to one of the
Company’s subsidiaries, recourse provisions related to sales of accounts
receivable, indemnifications to the Company’s customers for certain
infringement of third-party intellectual property rights by its products and
services, and the Company’s warranty obligations under sales of its products.
Please see Note 16 for additional information on the Company’s guarantees.

Foreign Currency:

Through fiscal year 2004, the functional currencies of
the Company’s European, Japanese and Asia Pacific subsidiaries are generally
the individual subsidiaries’ local currencies. The Company’s subsidiaries
primarily generate and expend cash in their local currency; billings and
receipts for their labor and services are primarily denominated in the local
currency (workforce is paid in local currency); their individual assets and
liabilities are primarily denominated in the local foreign currency and do not
materially impact the Company’s cash flows and there is an active local sales
market for the foreign subsidiaries’ products and services. Accordingly, all
balance sheet accounts of these local functional currency subsidiaries are
translated at the fiscal period-end exchange rate, and income statement
accounts are translated at an average rate for the period. The resulting
translation adjustments are recorded as cumulative translation adjustments, and
are a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).

Reclassifications:

Certain amounts presented in the comparative financial
statements for prior years have been reclassified to conform to the fiscal year
2004 presentation.



Note 3: Financial Instruments

Investments at June 27, 2004 and June 29, 2003 consist of the following:

June 27, 2004

June 29, 2003

Unrealized

Unrealized

Fair

Unrealized

Fair

Cost

Gains

Losses

Value

Cost

Gains

Value

(in thousands)

Available-for-sale:

Institutional
Money Market
Funds

$

57,739

$

—

$

—

$

57,739

$

119,805

$

—

$

119,805

Amounts included
in cash and cash
equivalents

57,739

—

—

57,739

119,805

—

119,805

Auction Rate
Notes and
Preferred
Stock

4,998


—

5,000

106,186

—

106,186

Municipal Bonds
and Notes

104,324


(732

)

103,785

83,773


84,376

Treasury and
Agency Notes

83,515


(859

)

82,754

54,344


54,708

Bank and
Corporate Notes

57,384


(639

)

56,796

53,862


53,941

International -
$US Denominated

17,786


(59

)

17,734

40,739


40,859

Amounts included
in short-term
investments

268,007


(2,289

)

266,069

338,904

1,166

340,070

Institutional
Money Market
Funds

112,468

—

—

112,468

118,468

—

118,468

Amounts included
in restricted
cash

112,468

—

—

112,468

118,468

—

118,468

Total
Available-for-sale

$

438,214

$


$

(2,289

)

$

436,276

$

577,177

$

1,166

$

578,343

The Company accounts for its investment portfolio at fair value. Realized
gains and (losses) from investments sold were approximately $0.2 million and
($0.3) million in fiscal 2004 and approximately $0.2 million and ($0.1) million
in fiscal 2003. Realized gains and (losses) for investments sold are
specifically identified. Management assesses the fair value of investments in
debt securities that are not actively traded through consideration of interest
rates and their impact on the present value of the cash flows to be received
from the investments. The Company also considers whether changes in the credit
ratings of the issuer could impact the assessment of fair value. The fair value
of the Company’s investments in auction rate preferred securities is based upon
par value, which approximates fair value due to the nature of the instruments.

The Company’s available-for-sale securities are invested in financial
instruments with a minimum rating of A2 or A, as rated by Moody’s or Standard &
Poor’s (S&P), respectively.

The amortized cost and fair value of investments in debt securities with
contractual maturities is as follows:

June 27,

June 29,



Estimated

Estimated

Fair

Fair

Cost

Value

Cost

Value

(in thousands)

Due in less than one year

$

229,963

$

229,773

$

328,577

$

328,922

Due one year through five years

203,253

201,503

142,414

143,235

Total investments in debt securities

$

433,216

$

431,276

$

470,991

$

472,157

Management has the ability and intent, if necessary, to liquidate any of
its investments in order to meet the Company’s liquidity needs in the next 12
months. Accordingly, those investments with contractual maturities greater than
one year from the date of purchase have been classified as short-term on the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.



Concentrations of Credit Risk

The fair value of the Company’s convertible subordinated notes and the
Company’s other long-term debt is estimated based on the current rates
available for debt instruments with comparable terms and maturities. The fair
value of the Company’s foreign currency forward contracts is estimated based
upon the Japanese Yen exchange rates at June 27, 2004 and June 29, 2003,
respectively. See Note 5 for a discussion of the equity derivative contracts in
the Company’s stock and its fair value.

The Company had no cash flow hedges at June 27, 2004. At June 29, 2003,
the notional amount of outstanding Japanese Yen forward contracts that are
designated as cash flow hedges was $2.2 million. At June 27, 2004 and June 29,
2003, the notional amount of Japanese Yen forward contracts that are designated
as balance sheet hedges was $48.1 million and $16.4 million, respectively.

The Company has an agreement to sell specific U.S. Dollar-denominated
receivables. At June 27, 2004 and June 29, 2003, $60.0 million and $37.5
million of these receivables, respectively, remained uncollected, of which $6.0
million and $2.8 million at June 27, 2004 and June 29, 2003, respectively, were
subject to recourse provisions.

Credit risk evaluations, including trade references, bank references and
Dun & Bradstreet ratings are performed on all new customers, and subsequent to
credit application approval, the Company monitors its customers’ financial
statements and payment performance. In general, the Company does not require
collateral on sales.

Note 4: Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging

During the quarter ended June 27, 2004, the Company repaid in full its 4%
Notes, two years prior to maturity. The repayment of the 4% Notes resulted in
a cash outlay of $303.0 million, which included a redemption premium of $3.0
million. Additionally, during the same quarter, the Company settled its swap,
which resulted in an increase in cash of $10.9 million as well as a transfer of
$6.0 million from restricted cash to cash balances. As a result of the swap
settlement and repayment of the 4% Notes, the Company recorded a net gain of
$4.5 million included in other income (expense), net. The $4.5 million
consisted of a $10.9 million gain related to the swap, less the $3.0 million
redemption premium and the $3.4 million write-off of unamortized offering
expenses associated with the 4% Notes.

The Company carries derivative financial instruments (derivatives) on the
balance sheet at their fair values. The Company has acquired and has held or
holds derivative financial instruments to hedge a variety of risks and
exposures including interest rate fluctuation risks associated with its
long-term debt, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the value of
expected cash flows from forecasted revenue transactions denominated in
Japanese Yen and foreign currency denominated assets. Changes in the fair value
of derivatives that are not designated or that do not qualify as hedges under
SFAS 133 are recognized in earnings immediately. The Company does not use
derivatives for trading or speculative purposes.

The Company has a policy to minimize, where possible and practical, the
impact of interest rate exposure associated with its interest rate sensitive
investments and debt obligations. To limit the impact relating to interest rate
exposure associated with its fixed rate 4% Notes, the Company was a party to an
interest rate swap agreement (the swap) with a notional amount of $300.0
million. Under the terms of the swap, the Company exchanged the fixed interest
payments on its 4% Notes for variable interest payments based on the London
Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The swap was accounted for as a fair value
hedge under the provisions of SFAS 133. Fluctuations in the fair value of the
4% Notes, resulting from changes in the LIBOR interest rate sensitive
component, were recorded in earnings, and were generally offset by changes in
the fair value of the swap, which were also recorded in earnings.

The corresponding net gains resulting from hedge ineffectiveness related
to differences in changes in the fair value of the swap and changes in the fair
value of the 4% Notes which are recorded in other income (expense), net were
$0.1 million and $0.2 million for fiscal year 2004 and fiscal year 2003,
respectively.

The Company’s policy is to attempt to minimize short-term business
exposure to foreign exchange risks using the most effective and efficient
methods to eliminate or reduce such exposures. In the normal course of
business, the Company’s financial position is routinely subjected to market
risk associated with foreign currency rate fluctuations. To protect against the
reduction in value of forecasted Japanese Yen-denominated cash flows resulting
from sales in



Japanese Yen, the Company will, at times, institute foreign currency cash
flow hedging programs. The Company has previously entered into foreign currency
forward exchange contracts that generally expired within 12 months, and no
later than 24 months. These foreign currency forward exchange contracts were
designated as cash flow hedges and carried on the Company’s balance sheet at
fair value with the effective portion of the contracts’ gains or losses
included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently
recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue was recognized.

The Company recognized a net gain of $0.3 million and a net loss of $0.1
million for fiscal year 2004 and fiscal year 2003, respectively, for cash flow
hedges that had been discontinued, because the original forecasted transactions
did not or were not expected to occur. The gains and losses were recorded in
other income (expense) in the consolidated statements of operations.

The Company also enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge
the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of Japanese Yen-denominated
intercompany and trade receivables. Under SFAS 133, these forward contracts are
not designated hedges. Therefore, the change in fair value of these derivatives
is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense) and is
planned to offset the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated
intercompany and trade receivables.

Note 5: Equity Derivative Contracts in Company Stock

On August 23, 2002, the Company settled its outstanding equity derivative
contracts by purchasing approximately 3.5 million shares of Lam common stock at
an average price of $11.19 per share for a total cash payment of $39.1 million.
The settlement generated a contract life to date gain of $8.4 million ($2.41
per share) and the Company recognized an increase in treasury stock of $47.6
million as a result of this transaction. Based on the $13.60 market price of
the Company’s common stock at the contract settlement date (August 23, 2002),
the fair value of the equity derivative contracts declined by $16.4 million to
$8.4 million, from their June 30, 2002 fair value of $24.8 million. This $16.4
million reduction in the equity derivative contracts’ fair value was recorded
as a non-taxable loss in other expense in the June 29, 2003 consolidated
statements of operations.

The Company’s equity derivatives included certain put and call options
indexed to its own stock that were acquired in June 1999. Application of EITF
00-19, “Determination of Whether Share Settlement is Within the Control of the
Issuer”, for the purposes of applying EITF Issue No. 96-13, “Accounting for
Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a
Company’s Own Stock”, required these previously purchased instruments to be
recorded at their fair value at the end of each reporting period, commencing in
June 2001, with the change in fair value recorded as a gain or loss in the
Company’s statement of operations. The Company’s equity derivatives were
collateralized by restricted cash of $9.1 million and could not be settled in
unregistered shares. They were classified as other short-term assets ($24.8
million), at the end of fiscal 2002.

Note 6: Inventories

Inventories consist of the following:

June 27,

June 29,



(in thousands)

Raw materials

$

45,070

$

67,259

Work-in-process

41,353

27,034

Finished goods

21,826

17,723

$

108,249

$

112,016



Note 7: Property & Equipment

Property and equipment consists of the following:

June 27,

June 29,



(in thousands)

Manufacturing and office equipment

$

98,046

$

114,609

Leasehold improvements

41,256

57,497

Furniture and fixtures

3,204

5,031

Computer equipment and software

59,062

67,624

201,568

244,761

Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization

(159,124

)

(195,990

)

$

42,444

$

48,771

Note 8: Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities

The significant components of accrued expenses and other liabilities
consist of the following:

June 27,

June 29,



(in thousands)

Accrued compensation

$

76,896

$

55,610

Warranty reserves

28,401

16,985

Income and other taxes payable

33,972

23,796

Restructuring charges

5,093

9,840

Other

27,981

24,913

$

172,343

$

131,144

Note 9: Long-Term Debt and Other Long-Term Liabilities

Long-term debt and other long-term liabilities consist of the following:

June 27,

June 29,



(in thousands)

4% Notes, interest payable semi-annually, principal due June 2006

$

—

$

319,322

Restructuring, long-term portion

8,761

9,396

Patent settlement obligation

2,500

7,500

Other


1,002

12,054

337,220

Less current portion

(2,500

)

(5,011

)

$

9,554

$

332,209



During the quarter ended June 27, 2004, the Company repaid in full its 4%
Notes, two years prior to maturity. The repayment of the 4% Notes resulted in
a cash outlay of $303.0 million, which included a redemption premium of $3.0
million. Additionally, during the same quarter, the Company settled its
swap which had been used to minimize the
impact of interest rate exposure associated with its 4% Notes. This settlement
resulted in an increase in cash of $10.9 million and, in addition, a transfer
of $6 million from restricted cash to cash balances. As a result of swap
settlement and repayment of the 4% Notes, the Company recorded a net gain of
$4.5 million included in other income (expense), net. The $4.5 million
consisted of a $10.9 million gain related to the swap less the $3.0 million
redemption premium and write-off of $3.4 million of unamortized offering
expenses associated with the 4% Notes.

The $8.8 million long-term restructuring reserve is primarily related to
lease payments on vacated buildings and includes payments extending out to
various dates beyond the next twelve months, which the Company expects to
utilize in total by the end of fiscal 2010.

The $2.5 million patent settlement obligation is expected to be paid in
full by December 2004.

The remaining balance of $0.8 million is expected to be utilized in total
by June 2007.

Note 10: Stockholders’ Equity

During fiscal 2003, the Company settled its outstanding equity derivative
contracts by purchasing approximately 3.5 million shares of the Company’s
common stock for a total cash payment of $39.1 million, which represented a
discount from the market price of the stock of approximately $2.41 per share,
resulting in a life to date gain of $8.4 million. The Company recognized an
increase in treasury stock of $47.6 million as a result of this transaction.
During fiscal 2002, the Company repurchased 600,000 shares of its common stock
for $10.7 million. During fiscal 2001, the Company
repurchased approximately 2.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock for
approximately $45.1 million.

During the quarter ended December 29, 2002, the Company recorded $3.4
million of deferred stock-based compensation in stockholders’ equity, which was
offset by a corresponding entry to additional paid-in capital in stockholders’
equity, in connection with the modification of terms of a fixed stock option
award previously issued to the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The modification extended the contractual life of the stock option for a period
of three years and modified the vesting requirements. However, no changes were
made to either the number of shares of the Company’s stock subject to the
option, or the option’s exercise price. Accordingly, the modification resulted
in the remeasurement of compensation expense based on the option’s intrinsic
value on the date of modification in accordance with the provisions of APB 25
and FIN 44. The deferred stock-based compensation balance of $3.4 million was
being amortized ratably over the vesting period of the modified options, or 16
quarters. Under the terms of this modification, if the Nasdaq National Market
closing price of the Company’s common stock reached or exceeded $20.00 per
share, all unvested shares would immediately vest and become exercisable. In
the event of such accelerated vesting, all remaining deferred compensation
would immediately be recognized as compensation expense.

During the quarter ended September 28, 2003, the Company added a second
condition to the accelerated vesting provision contained in this stock option
award. The second condition required the Company’s fiscal quarter net income,
based on U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, to exceed $2.5 million
after deducting any incremental amortization expense that resulted from
acceleration of these same options. The two conditions needed not to be met
simultaneously nor in a specific order. Both conditions were met during the
quarter ended September 28, 2003 and, as a result, all options under this
arrangement were immediately vested in full. Accordingly, the Company
recognized the remaining deferred stock-based compensation balance of $2.8
million as compensation expense within selling, general and administrative
expenses in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations for the fiscal
year ended June 27, 2004.

As of June 27, 2004, the Company had $1.8 million remaining in deferred
stock-based compensation. The majority of this balance relates to restricted
stock units granted to certain of the Company’s employees. The grant of



these units has been accounted for in accordance with APB No. 25 and EITF
00-23, “Issues Related to the Accounting for Stock Compensation under APB
Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and FASB
Interpretation No. 44, “Accounting for Certain Transactions involving Stock
Compensation.” Accordingly, these units were valued using the intrinsic value
as calculated by the market price at the date of grant. This resulted in a
fixed non-cash compensation charge which is being recognized on a straight-line
basis in earnings over the related service period.

Note 11: Net Income (Loss) Per Share

Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income
(loss) by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the
period. Diluted net income per share is computed as though all potential common
shares that are dilutive were outstanding during the period. Potential common
shares are excluded from diluted net (loss) per share calculations as the
effect would be antidilutive due to the net loss for the period. The following
table provides a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic
and diluted computations for net income (loss) per share.

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands, except per share data)

Numerator:

Net income (loss)

$

82,988

$

(7,739

)

$

(90,051

)

Add:

Interest expense on 4% Notes, net of income taxes

3,179

—

—

Numerator for diluted net income (loss) per share

$

86,167

$

(7,739

)

$

(90,051

)

Denominator:

Basic average shares outstanding

131,776

126,300

126,356

Effect of potential dilutive securities:

Employee stock plans and warrant

6,897

—

—

Assumed conversion of 4% Notes

6,255

—

—

Diluted average shares outstanding

144,928

126,300

126,356

Net income (loss) per share — Basic

$

0.63

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

Net income (loss) per share — Diluted

$

0.59

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

For purposes of computing diluted net income (loss) per share,
weighted-average common shares do not include potential dilutive securities
whose exercise prices exceed the average market value of the Company’s common
stock for the period. The following potential dilutive securities were
excluded:

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands)

Number of potential dilutive securities excluded

3,403

18,166

5,064



Additionally, the following potential dilutive securities were excluded
for purposes of computing diluted net (loss) per share because the effect would
have been antidilutive:

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands)

Number of potential dilutive securities excluded — options

—

3,718

18,038

Number of
potential dilutive securities excluded —
convertible subordinated notes

—

6,677

6,677

—

10,395

24,715

Note 12: Comprehensive Income (Loss)

The components of comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands)

Net income (loss)

$

82,988

$

(7,739

)

$

(90,051

)

Foreign currency translation adjustment

1,808

1,305

6,674

Unrealized loss on fair value of derivative
financial instruments, net

(293

)

(925

)

(3,719

)

Unrealized gain (loss) on financial instruments, net

(3,104

)

1,166

—

Comprehensive income (loss)

$

81,399

$

(6,193

)

$

(87,096

)

The balance of accumulated other comprehensive loss is as follows:

June 27,

June 29,



(in thousands)

Accumulated foreign currency translation adjustment

$

(13,345

)

$

(15,153

)

Accumulated unrealized gain on derivative financial instruments

—


Accumulated unrealized gain (loss) on financial instruments

(1,938

)

1,166

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(15,283

)

$

(13,694

)

Note 13: Stock Option Plans and Stock Purchase Plan

The Company has adopted stock option plans that provide for the grant to
key employees of options to purchase shares of the Company’s Common Stock. In
addition, the plans permit the grant of nonstatutory stock options to paid
consultants and employees, and provide for the automatic grant of nonstatutory
stock options to outside directors. The option price is determined by the Board
of Directors or its designee, the plan administrator, but in no event will it
be less than the fair market value of the Company’s Common Stock on the date of
grant. Options granted under the plans vest over a period determined by the
Board of Directors or the plan administrator. Under the automatic grant
program, each outside director receives an option immediately exercisable for
15,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock during December of each year during
which the outside director serves, with the exercise price equal to the fair
market value on the date of grant.



A summary of stock option plan transactions follows:

Available

Option

Weighted

For Grant

Outstanding

Price

Average

June 24, 2001

1,960,292

24,919,149

$

1.75-53.00

$

14.13

Additional amount authorized

9,000,000

—

—

—

Granted

(9,736,347

)

9,736,347

16.00-29.87

21.81

Exercised

—

(2,453,796

)

1.75-29.58

7.85

Canceled

2,579,527

(2,579,527

)

3.33-53.00

19.48

Expired

(347,836

)

—

—

—

June 30, 2002

3,455,636

29,622,173

$

3.33-53.00

$

16.68

Additional amount authorized

3,000,000

—

—

—

Granted

(4,661,372

)

4,661,372

7.03-22.74

11.12

Exercised

—

(1,719,354

)

3.33-18.58

8.63

Canceled

1,862,396

(1,862,396

)

6.33-50.46

21.61

Expired

(59,568

)

—

—

—

June 29, 2003

3,597,092

30,701,795

$

3.33-53.00

$

16.02

Additional amount authorized

—

—

—

—

Granted

(665,835

)

665,835

18.21-35.40

25.92

Exercised

—

(6,146,637

)

3.33-29.66

10.32

Canceled

1,602,440

(1,602,440

)

5.97-50.46

21.88

Expired

(26,645

)

—

June 27, 2004

4,507,052

23,618,553

$

3.33-53.00

$

17.40

At June 27, 2004, 28,125,605 shares of Lam Common Stock were reserved for
future issuance under the various stock option plans.

Outstanding and exercisable options presented by price range at June 27,
2004 are as follows:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted-

Average

Weighted-

Weighted-

Range of

Number of

Remaining

Average

Number of

Average

Exercise

Options

Life

Exercise

Options

Exercise

Prices

Outstanding

(Years)

Price

Exercisable

Price

$

3.33-6.33

3,249,334

4.85

$

5.66

3,249,334

$

5.66

6.38-8.69

2,687,027

3.79

7.43

2,405,077

7.29

8.95-12.74

2,480,576

5.04

10.32

1,759,919

10.34

12.90-21.58

4,368,774

4.60

17.57

2,634,647

17.74

21.63-22.05

5,711,801

4.75

22.04

874,910

22.01

22.07-26.44

3,453,630

6.00

25.37

2,318,866

25.85

26.57-53.00

1,667,411

5.82

33.92

1,217,732

34.33

$

3.33-53.00

23,618,553

4.92

$

17.40

14,460,485

$

15.34

The 1997 Stock Incentive Plan and the 1999 Stock Option Plan provide for
the grant of non-qualified stock option awards to eligible employees,
consultants and advisors, and non-employee directors of the Company and its
subsidiaries. Initially, 9.0 million shares were reserved for issuance. The
Board of Directors approved an additional 3.0 million shares, 9.0 million
shares, and 500,000 shares, in fiscal years 2003, 2002, and 2001 respectively.

The 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the 1999 ESPP) allows employees to
designate a portion of their base compensation to be used to purchase the
Company’s Common Stock at a purchase price per share of the lower of
85% of the fair market value of the Company’s Common Stock on the first or
last day of the applicable offering



period. Typically, each offering period
lasts 12 months and comprises three interim purchase dates. During fiscal 2003,
the Board approved an extension of the offering period to 16 months. The 1999
ESPP, approved by the Company’s stockholders at the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders on November 5, 1998, replaced the existing 1984 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the 1984 ESPP). At June 29, 2003 the Company had 9.0 million shares of Lam
Common Stock reserved for issuance under the 1999 ESPP: 3.0 million shares may
be issued at any time and additional shares (previously 6.0 million total
additional shares) may be issued for each share of the Company’s Common Stock
which the Company redeems in public-market at private purchases and designated
for this purpose. In fiscal year 2004, the Company’s stockholders approved an
amendment to the 1999 ESPP to (i) each year automatically increase the number
of shares available for issuance under the Plan by a specific amount on a
one-for-one basis with shares of Common Stock that the Company will redeem in
public market and private purchases for such purpose and (ii) to authorize the
Plan Administrator (the Compensation Committee of the Board) to set a limit on
the number of shares a Plan participant can purchase on any single Plan
exercise date. The automatic annual increase provides that the number of shares
in the Plan reserve available for issuance shall be increased on the first
business day of each calendar year commencing with 2004, on a one-for-one basis
with each share of Common Stock that the Company redeems, in public-market or
private purchases, and designates for this purpose, by a number of shares equal
to the lesser of (i) 2,000,000, (ii) one and one-half percent (1.5%) of the
number of shares of all classes of common stock of the Company outstanding on
the first business day of such calendar year, or (iii) a lesser number
determined by the Plan Administrator. During fiscal year 2004, the number of shares of Lam Common Stock
reserved for issuance under the 1999 ESPP increased by 2.0 million shares to 11.0 million shares, subject to
repurchase of an equal number of shares in public market or private purchases.

During fiscal 2004, 1,420,775 shares of the Company’s Common Stock were
sold to employees under the 1999 ESPP. A total of 15,330,337 shares of the
Company’s Common Stock were issued under the 1999 and 1984 ESPP Plans through
June 27, 2004, at prices ranging from $0.09 to $31.84 per share. At June 27,
2004, 735,325 shares are available for purchase under all employee stock
purchase plans. Pursuant to the automatic increase in shares available for issuance under the 1999 ESPP
discussed above, an additional 2.0 million shares are available for purchase subject to repurchase
of an equal number of shares in public market or private purchases.

Note 14: Profit Sharing and Benefit Plans

Profit sharing is awarded to employees based upon performance against
certain corporate financial and operating goals. Distributions to employees by
the Company are made semi-annually based upon a percentage of base salary,
provided that a threshold level of the Company’s financial and performance
goals are met. In addition to profit sharing the Company has other bonus plans
based on achievement of profitability and other specific performance criteria.
Charges to expense under these plans were $22.7 million, $8.8 million, and $2.7
million during fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.

The Company maintains a 401(k)-retirement savings plan for its full-time
employees in North America. Each participant in the plan may elect to
contribute from 2% to 20% in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003 and from 2% to 15% in
fiscal 2002 of his or her annual salary to the plan, subject to statutory
limitations. The Company makes matching employee contributions in cash to the
plan at the rate of 50% of the first 6% of salary contributed. Employees

participating in the 401(k)-retirement savings plan are 100% vested in the
Company matching contributions and investments are directed by participants.
The Company made matching contributions of approximately $3.0 million, $3.1
million, and $4.0 million in fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.



Note 15: Commitments

Off -Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

The Company has certain obligations, some of which are recorded on its
balance sheet and some of which are not, to make future payments under various
contracts. Obligations are recorded on the Company’s balance sheet in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Such
obligations are included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and
certain components, other long-term liabilities and restructuring liabilities,
are discussed below. In addition, the Company’s off-balance sheet
arrangements, consisting of operating leases and purchase obligations in the
tables below, include contractual relationships for which the Company has an
obligation under certain contracts.

Other Long-Term Liabilities

During the second quarter of fiscal 2002 the Company signed a final
settlement agreement with Varian Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc.
(Varian) in connection with the patent infringement litigation filed by Varian
in October 1993. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Varian granted
the Company a non-exclusive license to the patents involved in the litigation.
The Company agreed to pay Varian $20.0 million in cash, $5.0 million in
December 2001 and the remainder to be paid in equal quarterly installments of
$1.25 million over a three-year period. As of June 27, 2004, a total amount of
$17.5 million has been paid to Varian and the total obligation remaining is
$2.5 million through December 2004.

Restructuring Liabilities

The Company’s total restructuring reserves as of June 27, 2004 were $13.9
million. The $13.9 million consists of $0.6 million of severance and
benefits-related costs and $13.3 million primarily related to lease payments on
vacated buildings. The severance and benefits-related costs are expected to be
paid over the next twelve months. The facilities-related payments extend out
to various dates and the balance is expected to be paid in full by fiscal 2010.
The Company’s restructuring obligations are included in the table below.
Please see the related discussion in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

The Company has subleased some of its vacated buildings, all of which are
included in the Company’s restructuring reserves, and currently is entitled to
receive sublease payments of approximately $2.0 million, $1.6 million, and $0.8
million for the fiscal years 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively.

For fiscal years ended June 27, 2004, June 29, 2003, and June 30, 2002,
the Company received sublease payments totaling $1.2 million, $2.8 million, and
$3.9 million, respectively, on its sublease facilities.

The Company’s restructuring reserves consisted of the following as of June
27, 2004:

(in thousands)

Payments due by period:

Less than 1 year

$

5,093

1-3 years

6,986

4-5 years

1,748

Over 5 years


Total

$

13,854



Operating Leases

The Company leases most of its administrative, research and development
(R&D) and manufacturing facilities, regional sales/service offices and certain
equipment under non-cancelable operating leases, which expire at various dates
through 2021. All of the Company’s facility leases for buildings located at its
Fremont, California headquarters and certain other facility leases provide the
Company an option to extend the leases for additional periods. Additionally,
certain of the Company’s facility leases provide for periodic rent increases
based on the general rate of inflation.

Future minimum lease payments under operating leases agreements as of June
27, 2004 are as follows:

(in thousands)

Payments due by period:

Less than 1 year

$

13,894

1-3 years

13,718

4-5 years

102,034

Over 5 years


Total

$

130,034

Total rent expense amounted to approximately $8.5 million, $14.9 million,
and $19.7 million, for fiscal years 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.

In March and June of 2003, the Company transferred certain lease
agreements relating to various properties at its Fremont, California campus to
a new lessor. These agreements require the Company to guarantee residual values
of the leased properties to the lessor at the end of the lease terms in fiscal
2008 (in the case that the leases are not renewed, the Company does not
exercise the purchase options and the lessor sells the properties and the sale
price is less than the lessor’s costs) of up to $98.7 million ($48.4 million
and $50.3 million, respectively), which are reflected in the table above. The
terms of the guarantees are equal to the remaining terms of the related lease
agreements. Under the accounting provisions of FIN 45, the Company recognized a
liability of approximately $1.0 million ($0.5 million in March 2003 and $0.5
million in June 2003) for the related residual value guarantees under the
leases. The value of these guarantees was determined by computing the estimated
present value of the respective probability-weighted cash flows that might be
expended under the guarantees over the respective leases’ term, discounted
using the Company’s risk adjusted borrowing rate of approximately 2%. The
values of these respective guarantees have been recorded as prepaid rent, with
the offset recorded as a liability, and the amounts are being amortized to
income (for the liability) and to expense (for the prepaid rent) on a ratable
basis over the five-year period of the leases. Additionally, as part of the
lease agreements, the Company maintains cash collateral of approximately $112.5
million in separate specified interest bearing accounts which is recorded as
restricted cash on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. The lessor under
the lease agreements is a substantive independent leasing company that does not
have the characteristics of a variable interest entity (VIE) as defined by FIN
46, and is therefore not consolidated by the Company.



Purchase Obligations

Future payments under purchase obligations as of June 27, 2004 are as
follows:

(in thousands)

Payments due by period:

Less than 1 year

$

108,142

1-3 years

54,750

4-5 years

41,498

Over 5 years

1,825

Total

$

206,215

Purchase obligations consist of material contractual purchase obligations
either on an annual basis or over multi-year periods related to the Company’s
outsourcing activities or other material commitments, including
vendor-consigned inventories. The Company continues to enter into new
agreements and maintain existing agreements to outsource certain elements,
including elements of its manufacturing, warehousing, logistics, facilities
maintenance, certain information technology functions, and certain
transactional general and administrative functions. The table presented above contains the Company’s minimum obligations
at June 27, 2004 under these arrangements and others. Actual expenditures will
vary based on the volume of transactions and length of contractual service
provided. In addition to minimum spending commitments, certain of these
agreements provide for potential cancellation charges.

Consignment inventories, which are owned by vendors but located in the
Company’s discrete storage locations and warehouses, are not reported as Lam
inventory until title is transferred to the Company or its purchase obligation
is determined. At June 27, 2004, vendor owned inventories held at the Company’s
locations and not reported as Lam inventory were approximately $14.6 million.

Note 16: Guarantees

In November 2002, the FASB issued “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others” (FIN 45). FIN 45 requires a company that is a guarantor to make
specific disclosures about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has
issued. FIN 45 also requires a company (the Guarantor) to recognize, at the
inception of a guarantee, a liability for the obligations it has undertaken in
issuing the guarantee.

In March and June of 2003, the Company transferred certain lease
agreements relating to various properties at its Fremont, California campus to
a new lessor. These agreements require the Company to guarantee residual values
of the leased properties to the lessor at the end of the lease terms in fiscal
2008. Please see additional discussion in Note 15.

The Company has issued certain indemnifications to its lessors under some
of its operating lease agreements, such as, indemnification for various
environmental matters. The Company has entered into certain insurance contracts
to minimize its exposure related to such indemnifications. As of June 27, 2004,
the Company has not recorded any liability on its financial statements in
connection with these indemnifications, as the Company does not believe, based
on information available, that it is probable that any amounts will be paid
under these guarantees.

The Company has agreements with two financial institutions that guarantee
payment of its Japanese subsidiary’s overdraft protection obligation. The
maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to
make under these agreements at June 27, 2004, is approximately $5.6 million. As
of June 27, 2004, the Company’s Japanese subsidiary did not owe any amounts
under this agreement. The Company has not recorded any liability in connection
with these guarantees, as the Company does not believe, based on information
available, that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these
guarantees.



The Company has an agreement with a financial institution to sell to the
institution certain U.S. Dollar-denominated receivables generated from the sale
of its systems, subject to recourse provisions. The Company insures these sold
receivables for approximately 90% of their value and guarantees payment of the
remaining uninsured receivable value in the event that the payment obligation
is not satisfied. Based on historical payment patterns, the Company has
experienced negligible default on payment obligations and therefore, believes
the risk of loss from default is minimal. The terms of these guarantees are
from 90 days past the due date of the receivable, until collected. At June 27,
2004 the maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be
required to make under this agreement is approximately $6.0 million. As of June
27, 2004, the Company has not recorded any liability in connection with these
guarantees, as the Company does not believe, based on information available,
that it is probable that any amounts will be paid under these guarantees.

Generally, the Company indemnifies, under pre-determined conditions and
limitations, its customers for infringement of third-party intellectual
property rights by its products or services. The Company seeks to limit its
liability for such indemnity to an amount not to exceed the sales price of the
products or services. The Company does not believe, based on information
available, that it is probable that any material amounts will be paid under
these guarantees.

The Company provides standard warranties on its systems that run generally
for a period of 12 months from system acceptance, not to exceed 14 months from
the date of shipment of the system to the customer. The liability amount is
based on actual historical warranty spending activity by type of system,
customer, and geographic region, modified for any known factors such as the
impact of system reliability improvements.

Changes in the Company’s product warranty reserves during year ended June
27, 2004, were as follows:

(in thousands)

Balance at June 29, 2003

$

16,985

Warranties issued during the period

28,391

Settlements made during the period

(15,506

)

Change in liability for pre-existing warranties during the period, including
expirations

(1,469

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$

28,401



Note 17: Income Taxes

Significant components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes
attributable to income before taxes are as follows:

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands)

Federal:

Current

$

1,396

$

1,016

$

(1,527

)

Deferred

10,730

(5,856

)

(45,074

)

12,126

(4,840

)

(46,601

)

State:

Current


(3,214

)


Deferred

5,468

(2,581

)

4,109

5,728

(5,795

)

4,284

Foreign:

Current

9,808

2,932

(2,742

)

Deferred

—

(203

)

7,115

9,808

2,729

4,373

$

27,662

$

(7,906

)

$

(37,944

)

Deferred income taxes reflect the net effect of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components
of the Company’s net deferred tax assets are as follows:

June 27,

June 29,



(in thousands)

Deferred tax assets:

Tax benefit carryforwards

$

195,676

$

164,286

Accounting reserves and accruals deductible in different periods

35,605

59,264

Inventory valuation differences

38,629

37,836

Capitalized R&D expenses

14,974

17,808

Unrealized loss

5,265

—

Varian settlement — stock warrants

8,752

8,270

Other

4,419

—

Gross deferred tax assets

303,320

287,464

Deferred tax liabilities:

Temporary differences for capital assets

(13,047

)

(8,326

)

Unrealized gain

—

(2,856

)

State cumulative temporary differences

(13,256

)

(14,786

)

Other

—

(4,743

)

Gross deferred tax liabilities

(26,303

)

(30,711

)

Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets

(67,781

)

(36,655

)

Net deferred tax assets

$

209,236

$

220,098



Realization of the Company’s net deferred tax assets is based upon the
weight of available evidence, including such factors as the recent earnings
history and expected future taxable income. The Company believes it is more
likely than not that such assets will be realized; however, ultimate
realization could be negatively impacted by market conditions and other
variables not known or anticipated at this time.

Approximately $66.4 million and $23.9 million of the valuation allowance
for deferred tax assets, for fiscal 2004 and 2003, respectively, are
attributable to stock option deductions, the benefit of which will be credited
to equity when realized. Approximately, $1.4 million of stock option deductions were
realized for the year ended June 27, 2004. The change (increase/(decrease)) in
valuation allowance year over year was $31.1 million, ($15.6) million and $21.0
million for fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.

At June 27, 2004, the Company has federal tax loss carryforwards of
approximately $319.5 million, which will expire in varying amounts between 2019
and 2024. The Company also has federal and state tax credit carryforwards of
approximately $79.1 million, of which approximately $69.1 million of credits,
will expire in varying amounts between 2005 and 2024. The remaining balance of
$9.9 million of credit carryforwards may be carried forward indefinitely. A
valuation allowance of approximately $1.3 million in 2004 and $12.8 million in
2003 is attributable to the portion of the deferred tax assets related to the
tax credit carryforwards.

A reconciliation of income tax provision (benefit) provided at the federal
statutory rate (35% in 2004, 2003, and 2002) to actual income tax provision
(benefit) is as follows:

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands)

Income tax provision (benefit) computed at federal statutory rate

$

38,688

$

(5,476

)

$

(44,798

)

Tax carryforwards (benefited)/ unbenefited

—

—

9,184

Change in valuation allowance - foreign tax credits

(12,689

)

—

—

Tax exempt interest

(783

)

(805

)

(1,447

)

Tax credits

(6,604

)

(1,700

)

(7,000

)

State income tax provision (benefit), net of federal tax provision


(3,767

)

2,785

Equity derivatives indexed to Company stock

—

5,742

2,883

Foreign income taxed at different rates

9,347

23,080

—

IRS audit settlement

—

(24,892

)

—

Other

(558

)

(88

)


$

27,662

$

(7,906

)

$

(37,944

)

Income before income taxes from foreign operations for fiscal years 2004,
2003, and 2002 was $1.7 million, $(69.5) million and $(3.7) million,
respectively. In addition, the Company received royalty and other income from
foreign sources of $2.5 million, $4.9 million and $0.3 million, in fiscal years
2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively, which is subject to foreign tax
withholding.

In April 2003, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) closed its examination
of the Company’s tax returns for fiscal years up to and including the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1998. Resolution was reached on a number of issues
including adjustments related to research and development tax credits,
resulting in a reported approximate $24.9 million tax benefit recorded in
fiscal 2003. In addition, tax expense of approximately $17.0 million associated
with implementing strategies to, in the longer-term, limit the Company’s tax
liability on the sale of the Company’s products worldwide, was recorded in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. These tax strategies are structured to align the
asset ownership and functions of the Company’s various legal entities around
the world with the Company’s expectations of the level, timing, and sources of
future revenues and profits.



Note 18: Segment, Geographic Information and Major Customers

The Company operates in one business segment: manufacturing and servicing
of front-end wafer processing semiconductor manufacturing equipment. All
products and services are marketed within the geographic regions in which the
Company operates. The Company’s material operating units qualify for
aggregation under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, “Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,” due to their identical
customer base and similarities in economic characteristics, nature of products
and services, and processes for procurement, manufacturing and distribution.

The Company operates in four geographic regions: the United States,
Europe, Asia Pacific, and Japan. For geographical reporting, revenues are
attributed to the geographic location in which the customers’ facilities are
located while long-lived assets are attributed to the geographic locations in
which they are located.

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands)

Net sales:

United States

$

164,528

$

207,938

$

267,710

Europe

177,380

148,284

201,258

Asia Pacific

489,744

334,375

329,065

Japan

104,294

64,637

145,081

Total net sales

$

935,946

$

755,234

$

943,114

Year Ended

June 27,

June 29,

June 30,




(in thousands)

Long-lived assets:

United States

$

68,398

$

101,170

$

104,418

Europe

10,180

9,243

2,259

Asia Pacific

2,176

2,855

4,010

Japan


4,111

5,569

Total long-lived assets

$

81,072

$

117,379

$

116,256

In fiscal year 2004, revenues, on a standalone basis, from ST
Microelectronics accounted for approximately 15% of total revenues, and, in
fiscal year 2003, revenues from Samsung Electronics Company, Ltd., accounted
for approximately 15% of total revenues. No individual customer accounted for
more than 10% of the Company’s total revenue in fiscal 2002.

Note 19: Restructuring

The Company has developed plans and incurred restructuring charges to
respond to the high level of volatility and, at times, depressed levels of
capital investment by the semiconductor industry. The frequency of the
Company’s restructuring plans has been driven by the unpredictable and
substantial changes in the semiconductor industry as a whole and the market for
semiconductor processing equipment in particular. These dynamic changes in the
semiconductor industry and the Company’s business have required multiple
integrated responses, including those activities within the Company’s
restructuring plans, based on the best information and industry-expert
forecasts available at that point in time. Although management makes every
attempt to consolidate all known restructuring activities into one plan, the
extreme nature of Lam’s industry’s business cycles and the rapidly changing
forecasting environment places practical limitations on achieving this
objective. The implementation of restructuring activities and recognition of their impact in the Company’s
financial statements does not preclude similar but unrelated actions from being
necessary in future periods.



The Company systematically reviews its revenue outlook and forecasts and
assesses their impact on required employment levels, facilities utilization,
and outsourcing activities. Based on these evaluations, the Company’s senior
management committed to cost reduction and exit activities in the quarters
ended March 28, 2004 (the March 2004 Plan), December 28, 2003 (the December
2003 Plan), September 28, 2003 (the September 2003 Plan), June 29, 2003 (the
June 2003 Plan), March 30, 2003 (the March 2003 Plan), December 29, 2002 (the
December 2002 Plan), December 30, 2001 (the December 2001 Plan), and September
23, 2001 (the September 2001 Plan).

Prior to the end of each quarter noted above, the Company initiated the
announced restructuring activities and management with the proper level of
authority approved specific actions under the respective Plan. Severance
packages to potentially impacted employees were communicated in enough detail
such that the employees could determine their type and amount of benefit. The
termination of the affected employees occurred as soon as practical after the
restructuring plans were announced. The amount of remaining future lease
payments for facilities the Company ceased to use and included in the
restructuring charges is based on management’s estimates using known prevailing
real estate market conditions at that time based, in part, on the opinions of
independent real estate experts. Leasehold improvements relating to the vacated
buildings were written off, as these items will have no future economic benefit
to the Company and have been abandoned.

The Company distinguishes regular operating cost management activities
from restructuring activities. Accounting for restructuring activities requires
an evaluation of formally committed and approved plans. Restructuring
activities have comparatively greater strategic significance and materiality
and may involve exit activities, whereas regular cost containment activities
are more tactical in nature and are rarely characterized by formal and
integrated action plans or exiting a particular product, facility, or service.

As of June 27, 2004, the overall restructuring reserve balance consisted
of the following:

Severance

and

Benefits

Facilities

Total

(in thousands)

Fiscal 2004 restructurings

$


$

2,077

$

2,107

Fiscal 2003 restructurings


6,451

6,634

Fiscal 2002 restructurings


3,496

3,885

Pre-fiscal 2002 restructurings

—

1,228

1,228

Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$

13,252

$

13,854

The severance and benefits-related costs are anticipated to be utilized by
the end of fiscal year 2005. The facilities balance consists primarily of
lease payments on vacated buildings and is expected to be utilized by the end
of fiscal year 2010.

Fiscal 2004 Restructuring Activities

The Company recorded net restructuring charges during fiscal year 2004 of
approximately $6.7 million, consisting of severance and benefits for
involuntarily terminated employees of $1.2 million, charges for the present
value of remaining lease payments on vacated facilities of $2.8 million, and
the write-off of related leasehold improvements of $1.6 million. The Company
also recorded a charge of approximately $1.0 million due to the cancellation of
a lease agreement related to one of its facilities in Japan and $2.1 million
for the write-off of related leasehold improvements. Furthermore, the Company
recognized $1.9 million of additional facilities-related expenses due to
changes in estimates of restructuring plans initiated prior to fiscal 2004.
Charges during the year were partially offset by the recovery of $1.5 million,
net, of previously accrued expenses related to the remaining lease payments on
vacated facilities in Japan. Additional offsetting items include recovery of
$0.7 million due to lower than previously estimated employee severance and benefits costs and $1.7
million of recovered inventory from unanticipated sales to the Company’s
installed base of certain portions of inventory previously written off as part
of its September 2001 restructuring. The inventory recovery was recorded as a
credit in cost of goods sold.



March 2004 Plan

The Company recorded a restructuring charge during the quarter ended
March, 2004 of approximately $3.0 million, consisting of charges for the
cancellation of a lease agreement related to one of its facilities in Japan,
deemed to be no longer useful to the Company’s operations, of $1.0 million, and
the write-off of related leasehold improvements of $2.0 million.

Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the March 2004 Plan:

Abandoned

Fixed

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

March 2004 provision

$


$

2,088

$

3,038

Cash payments

(950

)

—

(950

)

Non-cash charges

—

(2,088

)

(2,088

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$

—

$

—

$

—

December 2003 Plan

The Company’s December 2003 Plan activities included reducing its
workforce by less than 20 employees, primarily in North America and by vacating
a facility located in North America deemed to be no longer useful to its
operations. The employees included in the Plan were from a range of functions
and at different levels of the organization. The Company recorded a
restructuring charge during the quarter ended December 28, 2003 of
approximately $4.2 million, consisting of severance and benefits for
involuntarily terminated employees, charges for remaining lease payments on
vacated facilities, and the write-off of related leasehold improvements.

Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the December 2003 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

December 2003 provision

$


$

2,305

$

1,514

$

4,169

Reversal of restructuring charges

—

(18

)

—

(18

)

Cash payments

(350

)

(244

)

—

(594

)

Non-cash charges

—

—

(1,514

)

(1,514

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$

—

$

2,043

$

—

$

2,043

September 2003 Plan

The Company’s September 2003 Plan included reducing its workforce
primarily in North America and Europe by approximately 20 people and by
vacating selected facilities located in North America and Asia deemed to be no
longer necessary to its operations. The employees included in the Plan were
from a range of functions and at multiple levels of the organization, with the
majority of the reductions in North America. The Company recorded a
restructuring charge during the quarter ended September 28, 2003 of
approximately $1.2 million, consisting of severance and benefits for
involuntarily terminated employees, charges for remaining lease payments on
vacated facilities, and the write-off of associated leasehold improvements.



Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the September 2003 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

September 2003 provision

$


$


$


$

1,230

Additional restructuring charges


—

—


Reversal of restructuring charges

(69

)

(7

)

—

(76

)

Cash payments

(662

)

(353

)

—

(1,015

)

Non-cash charges

—

—

(123

)

(123

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$


$

—

$


Fiscal 2003 Restructuring Activities

June 2003 Plan

The Company’s June 2003 Plan activities included reducing its workforce in
North America, Europe, and Asia by approximately 30 people and by vacating
selected sales and administrative facilities located in North America, Europe,
and Asia deemed to be no longer required for its operations. The employees
included in the Plan were from a broad range of functions and at multiple
levels of the organization, with the majority of the reductions in North
America. The Company recorded a restructuring charge during the quarter ended
June 29, 2003, of approximately $7.6 million, consisting of severance and
benefits for involuntarily terminated employees, charges for the present value
of remaining lease payments on vacated facilities, a loss on the fair value of
a vacated facility and the write-off of related leasehold improvements. In June
2003, a lease covering one of the Company’s vacated facilities at its Fremont,
California campus was amended, combined, restated, and transferred to a new
lessor under a single lease structure. At the time of the amendment, the leased
facility’s fair value was less than its original cost by approximately $1.0
million. Accordingly, this amount was recorded as a loss on the fair value of
the vacated facility and included in the $6.7 million facility-related
restructuring charge.

Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the June 2003 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

June 2003 provision

$


$

6,656

$


$

7,649

Cash payments

(366

)

(388

)

—

(754

)

Non-cash charges

—

—

(210

)

(210

)

Balance at June 29, 2003


6,268

—

6,685

Cash payments

(374

)

(847

)

—

(1,221

)

Reversal of restructuring charges

(37

)

(2

)

—

(39

)

Additional restructuring charges

—


—


Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$

5,503

$

—

$

5,509

March 2003 Plan

The Company’s March 2003 Plan activities included reducing its workforce
in North America and Europe by approximately 50 people and by vacating selected
sales and administrative facilities located in North America deemed to be no
longer required for its operations. The employees included in the Plan were
from a broad range of functions and at multiple levels of the organization, with the majority of the
reductions in North America. The Company recorded a restructuring charge during
the quarter ended March 30, 2003, of approximately $4.7 million,



consisting of
severance and benefits for involuntarily terminated employees, charges for
remaining lease payments on vacated facilities, and the write-off of related
leasehold improvements. The Company recovered $0.3 million during fiscal year
ended June 27, 2004 due to a change in estimates related to its facilities.
Additionally, during fiscal 2004, $0.3 million were
recovered due to lower than previously estimated employee severance and
benefits costs.

Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the March 2003 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

March 2003 provision

$

1,658

$

2,913

$


$

4,742

Cash payments

(855

)

(757

)

—

(1,612

)

Non-cash charges

(228

)

—

(171

)

(399

)

Balance at June 29, 2003


2,156

—

2,731

Cash payments

(255

)

(959

)

—

(1,214

)

Reversal of restructuring charges

(280

)

(283

)

—

(563

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$


$

—

$


December 2002 Plan

The Company’s December 2002 Plan activities included reducing its
workforce in North America, Europe, and Asia by approximately 120 employees and
by vacating selected sales and administrative facilities located in North
America, Europe and Asia deemed to be no longer necessary for its operations.
The employees included in the Plan were from a broad range of functions and at
multiple levels of the organization, with approximately 65% from North America
and approximately 35% from Europe and Asia locations. The Company recorded a
restructuring charge of $5.7 million, consisting of severance and benefits for
involuntarily terminated employees, charges for remaining lease payments on
vacated facilities, and the write-off of related leasehold improvements. During
fiscal year 2004, the Company recovered $0.1 million due to the
difference between the costs previously accrued and actual costs to terminate a
lease agreement related to a facility in Japan.

Below is a table summarizing activity relating to the December 2002 Plan:

Severance

Abandoned

and

Fixed

Benefits

Facilities

Assets

Total

(in thousands)

December 2002 provision

$

3,257

$

1,945

$


$

5,676

Cash payments

(3,112

)

(487

)

—

(3,599

)

Non-cash charges

—

(49

)

(474

)

(523

)

Balance at June 29, 2003


1,409

—

1,554

Reversal of restructuring charges

—

(90

)

—

(90

)

Cash payments

(8

)

(1,285

)

—

(1,293

)

Balance at June 27, 2004

$


$


$

—

$




Fiscal 2002 Restructuring Activities

December 2001 Plan

During the second fiscal quarter of 2002, the Company’s restructuring
activities included reducing its workforce by approximately 470 employees in
North America, Europe, and Asia, vacating selected administrative and warehouse
facilities at its Fremont, California campus deemed to be no longer required
for its operations, and the closure of certain offices in Asia. The employees
included in the Plan were from a broad range of functions and at multiple
levels throughout the organization with approximately 80% from North America
and approximately 20% from Europe and Asia locations. The Company recorded a
restructuring charge of $33.8 million relating to severance and benefits for
involuntarily terminated employees, charges for remaining lease payments on
vacated facilities and the write-off of related leasehold improvements and
fixed assets.

During fiscal 2004, the Company recorded approximately $0.4 million of
additional restructuring charges due to revision in estimates for one of its
vacated facilities and the Company recovered approximately $1.4 million, net,
due to the difference between the costs previously accrued and actual costs to
terminate a lease agreement for a facility for which it entered into a lease
cancellation agreement during the quarter ended March 28, 2004. During fiscal
2003, the Company recovered approximately $3.8 million of restructuring charges
originally accrued under the December 2001 Plan, $2.1 million for benefits
offered that were not utilized by terminated employees and approximately $1.7
million related to a revision to the net amount of lease payments remaining on
vacated facilities. During fiscal 2003, the Company recorded approximately $3.0
million of additional restructuring charges of which $2.5 million were due to
revisions the Company made in sublease assumptions for two of its vacated
buildings in Fremont, California and approximately $0.1 million due to
additional facility restoration costs. The remaining $0.4 million of expenses
were due to revisions that the Company made in its estimates for employee
termination costs.

September 2001 Plan

During the first quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company’s restructuring
activities included a reduction of approximately 550 employees in North
America, Europe and Asia, vacating selected facilities at its Fremont,
California campus deemed to be no longer required for its operations and
discontinuance of the manufacture of specific products within its etch product
lines. The employees were from a broad range of functions and at multiple
levels of the organization, with approximately 85% from North America and 15%
from Europe and Asia locations. The Company recorded a restructuring charge of
$21.0 million which included severance and benefits for involuntarily
terminated employees, charges for remaining lease payments, write-offs of
leasehold improvements on vacated facilities, and inventory write-downs. The
inventory charge of approximately $7.6 million related to the Company’s
decision to discontinue manufacture of specific systems within its etch product
lines. The Company recovered approximately $1.7 million during fiscal year
2004, $1.0 million during fiscal year 2003, and $0.7 million during fiscal year
2002, from unanticipated subsequent sales to its installed base of these items.
The Company physically disposed of approximately $1.0 million of this inventory
during fiscal 2004 and $2.7 million during fiscal 2003 and 2002.

During fiscal 2003, approximately $0.9 million was recovered due to lower
employee severance and termination costs of $0.6 million and lower than planned
expenses for vacated facility leases of $0.3 million. The Company also recorded
charges of $0.6 million for the September 2001 Plan based on a revised estimate
of the length of time required to sublease one of its vacated buildings in
Fremont, California.

During fiscal 2002, the Company recovered approximately $1.0 million of
the September 2001 Plan charge due to lower than estimated employee termination
costs of $0.7 million and lower than planned expenses relating to a vacated
facility lease of $0.3 million.



Fiscal 2001 Restructuring Plans

During the second quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company completed the
remaining elements of its restructuring activities under the June 2001 Plan. A
final $1.1 million of restructuring charges was recovered due to lower than
estimated employee termination costs.

Note 20: Settlement of Swap Agreement and Redemption of 4% Notes

During the quarter ended June 27, 2004, the Company settled its swap which
had been used to minimize the impact of interest rate exposure associated with
the Company’s 4% Notes. Please see Note 4 for additional information.

Note 21: Asset Impairment Charge

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, the Company decided to cease
future investment in its CMP systems development as a result of evaluations of
the product’s potential for garnering market share and providing adequate
returns on future investment. The Company determined that the carrying value
of certain of its fixed assets and intellectual property directly related to
the development and manufacturing of CMP systems exceeded their fair value less
costs to sell. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the
Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $2.4 million, recorded in cost
of goods sold, related to the fixed assets and a pre-tax charge of $0.6
million, recorded in R&D expense, associated with the intellectual property
asset.

Note 22: Related Party Transactions

During fiscal year 2001, the Company’s President and Chief Operating
Officer signed a promissory note with Lam entitling him to borrow up to $1.0
million dollars at 6.75% simple interest. He was advanced the $1.0 million and
subsequently repaid the entire amount of $1.0 million, plus accrued interest,
during the quarter ended December 28, 2003.

Note 23: Legal Proceedings

From time to time, the Company has received notices from third parties
alleging infringement of such parties’ patent or other intellectual property
rights by its products. In such cases it is the Company’s policy to defend the
claims, or if considered appropriate, negotiate licenses on commercially
reasonable terms. However, no assurance can be given that the Company will be
able in the future to negotiate necessary licenses on commercially reasonable
terms, or at all, or that any litigation resulting from such claims would not
have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or
operating results.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Lam Research Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lam
Research Corporation as of June 27, 2004 and June 29, 2003, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended June 27, 2004. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a).
These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Lam Research
Corporation as of June 27, 2004 and June 29, 2003, and the consolidated results
of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended June 27, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

San Jose, California

July 16, 2004



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

By /s/ JAMES W. BAGLEY

James W. Bagley,

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer

Dated: September 9, 2004

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature
appears below constitutes and appoints James W. Bagley and Martin B. Anstice,
jointly and severally, his attorney-in-fact, each with the power of
substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this
Report of Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other
documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorney-in-fact, or his
substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue thereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

Signatures

Title

Date

/s/ James W. Bagley

James W. Bagley

Chairman, Chief Executive

Officer

September 9, 2004

/s/ Martin B. Anstice

Martin B. Anstice

Vice President, Finance,

Chief Financial Officer, and

Chief Accounting Officer

September 9, 2004

/s/ David G. Arscott

David G. Arscott

Director

September 9, 2004

/s/ Robert M. Berdahl

Robert M. Berdahl

Director

September 9, 2004

/s/ Richard J. Elkus, Jr.

Richard J. Elkus, Jr.

Director

September 9, 2004

/s/ Jack R. Harris

Jack R. Harris

Director

September 9, 2004

/s/ Grant M. Inman

Grant M. Inman

Director

September 9, 2004



LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

ADDITIONS

BALANCE

CHARGED

BALANCE

AT

TO

CHARGED

AT

BEGINNING

COSTS

TO

END

OF

AND

OTHER

DEDUCTIONS

OF

DESCRIPTION

PERIOD

EXPENSES

DESCRIBE

DESCRIBE

PERIOD

YEAR ENDED JUNE 27, 2004

Deducted from asset accounts:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

3,789,000

$

701,000

$

—

$

625,000

(1)

$

3,865,000

YEAR ENDED
JUNE 29, 2003

Deducted from asset accounts:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

4,995,000

$

694,000

$

—

$

1,900,000

(1)(2)

$

3,789,000

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2002

Deducted from asset accounts:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

4,948,000

$

639,000

$

—

$

592,000

(1)

$

4,995,000

(1)

$0.6 million, $0.8 million, and $0.6 million of specific customer
accounts written-off in fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.

(2)

In fiscal 2003, $1.1 million of specific customer accounts
previously reserved were recovered.



LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 27, 2004

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Description

3.1(22)

Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant, dated September 7, 1989; as amended by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, Dated February 28, 1990; the Certificate of Amendment dated
October 28, 1993; the Certificate of Ownership and Merger dated December 15, 1994; the Certificate of Ownership and Merger dated June 25, 1999 and the Certificate of Amendment
effective as March 7, 2000.

3.2(27)

Amended and Restated By Laws of the Registrant, dated June 6, 2003.

3.3(22)

Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock dated January 27, 1997.

4.2(1)

Amended 1984 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Forms of Stock Option Agreements.

4.4(5)

Amended 1991 Stock Option Plan and Forms of Stock Option Agreements.

4.7(1)

Rights Agreement, dated as of January 23, 1997, between the Registrant and ChaseMellon Shareholder Service, L.L.C., which includes Exhibit B thereto the Form of Right Certificate.

4.8(32)

Amended and restated 1997 Stock Incentive Plan.

4.11(18)

Amended and restated 1996 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Plan.

4.12(32)

Amended and restated 1999 Stock Option Plan.

4.13(29)

Lam Research Corporation 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.

4.14(30)

Lam Research Corporation 2004 Executive Incentive Plan.

10.3(2)

Form of Indemnification Agreement.

10.12(3)

ECR Technology License Agreement and Rainbow Technology License Agreement by and between Registrant and Sumitomo Metal Industries, Ltd.

10.16(4)

License Agreement effective January 1, 1992 between the Registrant and Tokyo Electron Limited.

10.30(6)

1996 Lease Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation and the Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited, dated March 27, 1996.

10.35(7)

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Lam Research Corporation, Omega Acquisition Corporation and OnTrak Systems, Inc., dated as of March 24, 1997.

10.38(8)

Consent and Waiver Agreement between Lam Research Corporation and IBJTC Leasing Corporation-BSC, The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited, Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, and the Nippon Credit Bank, Ltd., dated March 28, 1997.

10.46(9)

Receivables Purchase Agreement between Lam Research Co., Ltd. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Tokyo Branch, dated
December 26, 1997.

10.49(9)

Guaranty to the Receivables Purchase Agreement between Lam Research Co., Ltd. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Tokyo
Branch, dated December 26, 1997.

10.50(10)

License Agreement between Lam Research Corporation and Trikon Technologies, Inc., dated March 18, 1998.

10.51(10)

Loan Agreement between Lam Research Corporation and The Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited, dated March 30, 1998.

10.52(11)

Credit Agreement between Lam Research Corporation and Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch and ABN AMRO Bank N.V.,
San Francisco Branch, dated April 13, 1998.

10.53(11)

First Amendment to Credit Agreement between Lam Research Corporation and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., San Francisco
Branch, dated August 10, 1998.

10.58(12)

Loan Agreement between Lam Research Co., Ltd. and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., dated September 30, 1998.

10.59(12)

Guaranty to Loan Agreement between Lam Research Co., Ltd and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., dated September 30, 1998.

10.61(13)

Second Amendment to Credit Agreement between ABN AMRO BANK, N.V. and Lam Research Corporation, dated December
18, 1998.

10.62(13)

First Amendment to Guaranty between ABN AMRO BANK, N.V. and Lam Research Corporation, dated December 25, 1998.

10.63(13)

Supplemental Agreement of Receivables Purchase Agreement dated December 26, 1997 between ABN AMRO BANK, N.V. and
Lam Research Corporation, dated December 25, 1998.

10.64(13)

Supplemental Agreement of Loan Agreement dated September 30, 1998 between ABN AMRO BANK, N.V. and Lam Research
Corporation, dated December 25, 1998.



Exhibit

Description

10.66(14)

Substitution Certificate for Loan Agreement dated September 30, 1998 between ABN AMRO BANK, N.V. and Lam
Research Corporation, dated March 19, 1999.

10.67(15)

OTS Issuer Stock Option Master Agreement between Lam Research Corporation and Goldman Sachs & Co., and
Collateral Appendix thereto, dated June 1999.

10.68(15)

Form of ISDA Master Agreement and related documents between Lam Research Corporation and Credit Suisse Financial
Products, dated June 1999.

10.69(17)

The First Amendment Agreement between Lam Research Corporation and Credit Suisse Financial Products, dated
August 31, 1999.

10.70(19)

Lease Agreement between Lam Research Corporation and Scotiabanc Inc., dated January 10, 2000.

10.71(19)

Participation Agreement between Lam Research Corporation, Scotiabanc Inc., and The Bank of Nova Scotia, dated
January 19, 2000.

10.73(20)

Lease Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation and Cushing 2000 Trust, dated December 6, 2000.

10.74(20)

Participation Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation and Cushing 2000 Trust, Dated December 6, 2000.

10.75(21)

Indenture between Lam Research Corporation and LaSalle Bank, National Association, as Trustee, dated May 22, 2001

10.76(21)

Registration Rights Agreement among Lam Research Corporation, Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation and ABN
Amro Rothschild LLC, dated May 22, 2001.

10.77 (23)

Warrant to Purchase Common Stock of Lam Research Corporation, dated December 19, 2001, issued to Varian
Semiconductor Equipment Associates, Inc.

10.78 (24)

Promissory Note between Lam Research Corporation and Stephen G. Newberry dated May 8, 2001.

10.79 (25)

Amendment to Stock Option Grant for James W. Bagley dated October 16, 2002.

10.80 (26)

Amended and Restated Master Lease and Deed of Trust Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service
Corporation, dated March 25, 2003.

10.81 (26)

Lease Supplement No. 1 Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated March 25, 2003.

10.82 (26)

Participation Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation, SELCO Service Corporation and Key Corporate Capital
Inc., dated March 25, 2003.

10.83 (26)

Amendment to Participation Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation, Scotiabanc Inc. and The Bank of Nova
Scotia, dated December 27, 2002.

10.84 (26)

Amendment to Participation Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation, the Cushing 2000 Trust, Scotiabanc Inc,
The Bank of Nova Scotia and Fleet National Bank, dated December 27, 2002.

10.85 (26)

Employment Agreement for Stephen G. Newberry, dated January 1, 2003.

10.86(27)

Amended and Restated Master Lease and Deed of Trust Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.87(27)

Lease Supplement No. 1 Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.88(27)

Lease Supplement No. 2 Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.89(27)

Lease Supplement No. 3 Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.90(27)

Lease Supplement No. 4 Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.91(27)

Lease Supplement No. 5 Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.92(27)

Lease Supplement No. 6 Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.93(27)

Lease Supplement No. 7 Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.94(27)

Participation Agreement Between Lam Research Corporation and SELCO Service Corporation, and Key Corporate Capital Inc., dated as of June 1, 2003.

10.95(27)

Employment Agreement for Ernest Maddock, dated April 15, 2003.

10.96(28)

Employment Agreement for Nicolas J. Bright, dated August 1, 2003.

10.97

Second Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Uncommitted Insured Trade Receivables Purchase Agreement between ABN Amro Bank, N.V. and Lam Research Corporation, dated June 2, 2004.

10.98

Amended and Restated Guaranty between ABN Amro Bank, N.V. and Lam Research Corporation, dated June 2, 2004.

10.99

Form of Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement — Lam Research Corporation 1997 Stock Incentive Plan.


Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.


Power of Attorney (See Signature page)

31.1

Rule 13a - 14(a) / 15d - 14(a) Certification (Principal Executive Officer)

31.2

Rule 13a - 14(a) / 15d - 14(a) Certification (Principal Financial Officer)

32.1

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 (section 906 of the of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) — Chief Executive Officer

32.2

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 (section 906 of the of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002) — Chief Financial Officer



(1) Incorporated by
reference to Post Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form
S-8 (No. 33-32160) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 10, 1990.

(2) Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 3, 1988.

(3) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1989.

(4) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1991.

(5) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1995.

(6) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996.

(7) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Report on Form 8-K dated March 31, 1997.

(8) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997.

(9) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1997.

(10) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998.

(11) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998.

(12) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
1998.

(13) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31,
1998.

(14) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A for the quarter ended March 31, 1999.

(15) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Report on Form 8-K dated June 22, 1999.

(16) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Report on Form S-8 dated November 5, 1998.

(17) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26,
1999.

(18) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 26,
1999.

(19) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 26, 2000.

(20) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 24,
2000.

(21) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated July 27, 2001.

(22) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Amendment No. 2 to its Annual Report on Form 10K/A for the fiscal
year ended June 25, 2000.

(23) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated January 30, 2002.

(24) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002.

(25) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 29,
2002.

(26) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 2003.

(27) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2003.

(28) Incorporated by reference to Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 28,
2003.

(29) Incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement filed on October 14, 2003.

(29) Incorporated by reference to Appendix B of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement filed on October 14, 2003.

82