10-K


ba_10k.htm

10-K

FORM 10-K

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

ý

Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [No Fee
Required]

For the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2003

Commission File No. 001-14817

PACCAR Inc

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code

(425)
468-7400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, $1 par value

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter periods that the registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for at least the
past 90 days. Yes

ý

No

o

Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.

ý

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes

ý

No

o

The aggregate market value of
the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2003:

Common Stock, $1 par value — $7.89 billion

The number of shares
outstanding of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of February 27,
2004:

Common Stock, $1 par value — 175,413,375 shares

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report
to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2003, are in­corporated by
reference into Parts I and II.

Portions of the proxy statement
for the annual stockholders meeting to be held on April 27, 2004, are
incorporated by reference into Part III.

PART I

ITEM 1.

BUSINESS

(a) General
Development of Business

PACCAR Inc
(the Company), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1971, is the
successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company which was incorporated in
Washington in 1924. The Com­pany traces its predecessors to Seattle Car
Manufacturing Company formed in 1905.

(b) Financial
Information About Industry Segments and Geographic Areas

Information
about the Company’s industry segments and geographic areas in response to Items
101(b), (c)(1)(i), and (d) of Regulation S-K appears on page 47 of the Annual
Report to Stockhold­ers for the year ended December 31, 2003 and is
incorporated herein by reference.

(c) Narrative
Description of Business

The Company
has two principal industry segments, (1) design, manufacture and distribution
of light-, medium- and heavy-duty trucks and related aftermarket distribution
of parts and (2) finance and leasing services provided to customers and
dealers. The Company distributes trucks and parts primarily through its
independent dealer network. The Company’s finance and leasing activities are
principally related to Company products and associated equipment. Other
manufactured products include industrial winches.

TRUCKS

The Company
and its subsidiaries design and manufacture heavy-duty diesel trucks which are
marketed under the Peterbilt, Kenworth, DAF and Foden nameplates. These
vehicles, which are built in four plants in the United States, three in Europe
and one each in Australia, Canada, and Mexico, are used worldwide for
over-the-road and off-highway hauling of freight, petroleum, wood products,
construction and other materials. Commercial trucks and related replacement
parts comprise the largest segment of the Company’s business, accounting for
93% of total 2003 net sales and revenues.

The Company,
through its Peterbilt and Kenworth Divisions, competes in the North American
medium duty (Class 6/7) markets primarily with conventional models. These
medium-duty trucks are assembled at the Company’s Ste. Therese, Quebec plant
and at the Company’s facility in Mexicali, Mexico. The Company competes in the
European light/medium (6 to 15 metric ton) commercial vehicle market with DAF
cab-over-engine trucks assembled in the United Kingdom by Leyland, one of the
Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries.

Substantially
all trucks and related parts are sold to dealers, which are independent except
for a small number of factory branches. The Kenworth and Peterbilt
nameplates are marketed and distributed by separate divisions in the U.S. and a
foreign subsidiary in Canada. The Kenworth nameplate is also marketed and
distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Mexico and Australia. The DAF and Foden
nameplates are marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries headquartered
in the Netherlands and United Kingdom, respectively. A U.S. division,
PACCAR International, also markets all four nameplates outside each of their primary
markets. The decision to operate as a subsidiary or as a division is incidental
to Truck Segment operations and reflects legal, tax and regulatory requirements
in the various countries where PACCAR operates.


The Truck
Segment utilizes centrally managed purchasing, information technology,
engineering technical research and testing, treasury and finance functions.
Certain manufacturing plants in North America and Europe produce trucks for
more than one nameplate in common production facilities, while other plants
produce trucks for only one nameplate, depending on various factors. Also, as a
result of the close similarity of the business models employed by each
nameplate, best manufacturing practices within the Company are shared on a
routine basis.

The Company’s
trucks are essentially custom products and have a reputation for high quality.
For a significant portion of the Company’s truck operations, major components,
such as engines, transmissions and axles, as well as a substantial percentage
of other components, are purchased from component manufacturers pursuant to
PACCAR and customer specifications. DAF, which is more vertically integrated,
manufactures its own engines and axles and a higher percentage of other
components for its heavy truck models. The value of truck components
manufactured by independent suppliers ranges from approximately 40% in Europe
to approximately 85% in North America.

Raw materials
and other components used in the manufacture of trucks are purchased from
a number of suppliers. The Company’s DAF subsidiary purchases fully
assembled cabs from a competitor, Renault V.I., for its European light-duty
product line pursuant to a joint product develop­ment and long-term supply
contract. Sales of trucks manufactured with these cabs amounted to
approximately 4% of consolidated revenues. A short-term loss of supply, and the
resulting interrup­tion in the production of these trucks, would not have a
material effect on the Company’s results of operations. However, a loss of
supply for an extended period of time would either require the Company to
contract for an alternative source of supply or for the Company to manufacture
cabs itself. Other than these components, the Company is not limited to any
single source for any sig­nificant component, although the sudden inability of
a supplier to deliver components could have a temporary adverse effect on
production of certain products. No significant shortages of materials or
components were experienced in 2003. Manufacturing inventory levels are based
upon production schedules and orders are placed with suppliers accordingly.

Replacement
truck parts are sold and delivered to the Company’s independent dealers through
the Company’s parts distribution network. Parts are both manufactured by the
Company and pur­chased from various suppliers. Replacement parts inventory
levels are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the need for
timely delivery. As a percentage of total consoli­dated net sales and revenues,
parts sales were 15% in 2003 and 2002 and 16% in 2001.

There were
three other principal competitors in the U.S. and Canada Class 8 truck market
in 2003. The Company’s share of that market was 23.5% of retail sales in 2003.
In Europe there were five other principal competitors in the commercial vehicle
market in 2003, including parent companies to two competitors of the Company in
the United States. The Company’s subsidiary, DAF, had a 12.7% share of the
Western European heavy-duty market and a 8.7% share of the light/medium market.
These markets are highly competitive in price, quality and service, and PACCAR
is not dependent on any single customer for its sales. There are no significant
seasonal variations.

The Peterbilt,
Kenworth, DAF and Foden nameplates are recognized internationally and play an
important role in the marketing of the Company’s truck products. The Company
engages in a continuous program of trademark and trade name protection in all
marketing areas of the world.

Although the
Company’s truck products are subject to environmental noise and emission con­trols,
competing manufacturers are subject to the same controls. The Company believes
the cost of complying with noise and emission controls will not be detrimental
to its business.


The Company
had a total production backlog of $1.9 billion at the end of 2003. Within this
backlog, orders scheduled for delivery within three months (90 days) are
considered to be firm. The 90-day backlog approximated $1.5 billion at December
31, 2003, and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2002. Production of the year-end
2003 backlog is expected to be completed during 2004.

The number of
persons employed by the Company in its truck business at December 31, 2003, was
approximately 16,100.

OTHER BUSINESS

The Truck and
Other businesses include a division of the Company which manufactures indus­trial
winches in two U.S. plants and markets them under the Braden, Carco, and
Gearmatic name­plates. The markets for these products are highly competitive
and the Company competes with a number of well established firms. Sales of
industrial winches were less than 1% of net sales and revenues in 2003, 2002
and 2001.

The Braden,
Carco, and Gearmatic trademarks and trade names are recognized internationally
and play an important role in the marketing of those products. The Company has
an ongoing program of trademark and trade name protection in all relevant
marketing areas.

FINANCIAL SERVICES

In North America,
Australia and seven Western European countries, the Company provides financing
and leasing arrangements principally for its manufactured trucks through
wholly-owned finance companies operating under the PACCAR Financial or PacLease
trade names. They provide inventory financing for independent dealers selling
PACCAR products, and retail and lease financing for new and used trucks and
other transportation equipment sold principally by its independent dealers.
Receivables are secured by the products financed or leased.

PACCAR has a
49% equity ownership in DAF Financial Services (DFS) in Europe. Effective
July 1, 2001, concurrent with the start-up of wholly-owned PACCAR
Financial Europe in seven Western European markets, DFS ceased writing new
business. At December 31, 2003 DFS had total assets of $245 million compared to
$425 million at December 31, 2002. DFS will continue to service existing assets
until they are liquidated in the ordinary course of business. This investment,
which is recorded under the equity method, was $42 million at December 31,
2003. For DFS, operating results were insignificant for the three years ended
December 31, 2003.

The Company
also conducts full service leasing operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries
in North America under the PacLease trade name. Selected dealers in North
America are fran­chised to provide full service leasing. The Company provides
its franchisees equipment financing and managerial support. The Company also
operates full service lease outlets on its own behalf.

PATENTS

The Company
owns numerous patents which relate to all product lines. Although these patents
are considered important to the overall conduct of the Company’s business, no
patent or group of patents is considered essential to a material part of the
Company’s business.

REGULATION

As a
manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the National Traffic
and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The Company
believes it is in compliance with the Act and applicable safety standards.


Information
regarding the effects that compliance with international, federal, state and
local provisions regulating the environment have on the Company’s capital and
operating expenditures and the Company’s involvement in environmental cleanup
activities is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and the Company’s Consolidated Financial
Statements incorporated by reference in Items 7 and 8, respectively.

EMPLOYEES

On December
31, 2003, the Company employed a total of approximately 17,000 persons.

OTHER DISCLOSURES

The Company’s
filings on Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K and any amendments to those reports can be
found on the Company’s website www.paccar.com/corp/finance.asp free of charge
as soon as practicable after the report is electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 2.

PROPERTIES

The Company
and its subsidiaries own and operate manufacturing plants in five U.S. states,
three locations in Europe, and one each in Australia, Canada and Mexico.
Several parts distribu­tion centers, sales and service offices, and finance and

administrative
offices are also operated in owned or leased premises in these

and
other countries. Facilities for product testing and research and development
are located in Washington state and the Netherlands. The Company’s corpor­ate
headquarters is located in owned premises in Bellevue, Washington. The Company
considers all of the properties used by its businesses to be suitable for their
intended purposes.

Overall, the
Company’s manufacturing facilities maintained their production in 2003 at
levels comparable to the prior year. There is additional capacity utilization
available in all of the Com­pany’s facilities.

The following
summarizes the number of the Company’s manufacturing plants by geographical
location within indicated industry segments:

U.S.

Canada

Australia

Mexico

Europe

Truck






Other


—

—

—

—

Properties
located in Washington, California and Texas are being held for sale.

ITEM 3.

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company
and its subsidiaries are parties to various lawsuits incidental to the ordinary
course of business. Management believes that the disposition of such lawsuits
will not materially affect the Company’s business or financial condition.

ITEM 4.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
  HOLDERS

No matters
were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2003.


PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S EQUITY AND RELATED
  STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Common Stock Market
Prices and Dividends on page 49 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 2003, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Selected
Financial Data on page 48 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 2003, are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations on
pages 23 through 28 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 2003, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7A.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
  ABOUT MARKET RISK

Quantitative
and qualitative disclosures about market risk on page 50 of the Annual Report
to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2003, is incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 8.

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
  SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The following
consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its subsidiaries,
included in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
2003, are incorporated herein by reference:

Consolidated
Balance Sheets

— December 31,
2003 and 2002

Consolidated
Statements of Income

— Years Ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated
Statements of Stockholders’ Equity

— Years Ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income

— Years Ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows

— Years Ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements

— December 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001

Quarterly Results (Unaudited)
on page 49 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the years ended December
31, 2003 and 2002 are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

The registrant
has not had any disagreements with its independent auditors on accounting or
financial disclosure matters.

ITEM 9A.

CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES

An evaluation was

performed under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s
management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, of the effective­ness of the design and operation of the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)
promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of
December 31, 2003 (“Evaluation Date”). Based on that evaluation, the principal
executive officer and principal financial officer of the Company concluded that
the disclosure con­trols and procedures in place at the Company were adequate
to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company, including
its consolidated subsidiaries, in reports that the Company files or submits
under the Exchange Act, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported on a
timely basis in accordance with applicable rules and regulations. There have
been no significant changes in the Company’s internal controls over financial
reporting during the fourth quarter of 2003 that have materially affected, or
are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting.


PART III

ITEM 10.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
  OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Item 401(a),
(d), (e) and (h) of Regulation S-K:

Identification
of directors, family relationships, and business experience on pages 5 and 6 of
the proxy statement and of audit committee financial expert on page 15 of the
proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 27, 2004, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 401(b) of
Regulation S-K:

Executive Officers
of the registrant as of February 23, 2004:

Officers are elected annually but may be
appointed or removed on interim dates.

Item 406 of
Regulation S-K:

The company
has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to the registrant’s senior financial
officers including the Chief Executive Officer and chief financial officer. The
company, in accord­ance with Item 406 of Regulation S-K, has posted
this Code of Ethics on its website at www.paccar.com/financials.asp. The
company intends to disclose on its website any amend­ments to, or waivers from,
its Code of Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to the
rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.


ITEM 11.

EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Compensation
of Directors on page 7 and of Executive Officers and Related Matters on pages
10 through 14 of the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of
April 27, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
  OWNERS AND MANAGE­MENT AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

Stock
ownership information on pages 3 through 5 of the proxy statement for the
annual stock­holders meeting of April 27, 2004, is incorporated herein by
reference.

Equity
compensation plan information on pages 9 and 10 of the proxy statement for the
annual stock­holders meeting of April 27, 2004, is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13.

CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
  TRANSACTIONS

No
transactions with management and others as defined by Item 404 of Regulation
S-K occurred in 2003.

ITEM 14.

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Principal
accountant fees and services information on pages 15 and 16 of the proxy
statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 27, 2004, is
incorporated herein by reference.


PART IV

ITEM 15.

EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES,
  AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) (1) Listing of financial statements

The following
consolidated financial statements of PACCAR Inc and subsidiaries, included in
the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2003, are in­corporated
by reference in Item 8:

Consolidated Balance Sheets

— December 31, 2003 and 2002

Consolidated Statements of Income

— Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity

— Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income

— Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

— Years Ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

— December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

(2) Listing of
financial statement schedules

All schedules
are omitted because the required matter or conditions are not present or
because the information required by the schedules is submitted as part of the
con­solidated financial statements and notes thereto.

(3) Listing of
Exhibits (in order of assigned index numbers)

(3)

Articles
of incorporation and bylaws

(a)

PACCAR
Inc Certificate of Incorporation, as amended to April 29, 1997 (in­corporated
by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quar­ter ended March
31, 1997).

(b)

PACCAR
Inc Bylaws, as amended to April 26, 1994 (incorporated by refer­ence to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994), and Bylaw
Article III, as amended to July 10, 2001 (incorporated by reference to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001).

(4)

Instruments
defining the rights of security holders, including indentures

(a)

Rights
agreement dated as of December 10, 1998 between PACCAR Inc and First Chicago
Trust Company of New York setting forth the terms of the Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, no par value per share (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of PACCAR Inc dated
December 21, 1998).


(b)

Amendment
Number 1 to rights agreement dated as of December 10, 1998 between PACCAR Inc
and First Chicago Trust Company of New York appointing Wells Fargo Bank N.A. as
successor rights agent, effective as of the close of business September
15, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)(b) of the Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2000).

(c)

Indenture
for Senior Debt Securities dated as of December 1, 1983, and first Supplemental
Indenture dated as of June 19, 1989, between PACCAR Financial Corp. and
Citibank, N.A., Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of PACCAR Financial Corp. dated March 26, 1984, File
Number 0-12553 and Exhibit 4.2 to PACCAR Financial Corp.’s registration
statement on Form S-3 dated June 23, 1989, Registration Number 33-29434).

(d)

Forms
of Medium-Term Note, Series I (incorporated by reference to Exhibits 4.2A and 4.2B
to PACCAR Financial Corp.’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated September
10, 1998, Registration Number 333-63153).

Form of Letter of Representation among PACCAR Financial Corp.,
Citibank, N.A. and the Depository Trust Company, Series I (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.3 to PACCAR Financial Corp.’s Registration Statement on
Form S-3 dated September 10, 1998, Registration Number 333-63153).

(e)

Forms
of Medium-Term Note, Series J (incorporated by reference to Ex­hibits 4.2A and
4.2B to PACCAR Financial Corp.’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated March
2, 2000, Registration Number 333-31502).

Form of Letter of Representation among PACCAR Financial Corp.,
Citibank, N.A. and the Depository Trust Company, Series J (incorporated by
refer­ence to Exhibit 4.3 to PACCAR Financial Corp.’s Registration Statement
on Form S-3 dated March 2, 2000, Registration Number 333-31502).

(f)

Forms
of Medium-Term Note, Series K (incorporated by reference to Ex­hibits 4.2A and
4.2B to PACCAR Financial Corp.’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated
December 23, 2003, Registration Number 333-111504).

Form of Letter of Representation among PACCAR Financial Corp.,
Citibank, N.A. and the Depository Trust Company, Series K (incorporated by
refer­ence to Exhibit 4.3 to PACCAR Financial Corp.’s Registration Statement
on Form S-3 dated December 23, 2003, Registration Number 333-111504).

(10)

Material
contracts

(a)

PACCAR
Inc Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(a)
of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1980).

(b)

Amended
and Restated Supplemental Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
(10)(b) of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 2000).


(c)

Amended
and Restated Deferred Incentive Compensation Plan (incorp­orated by reference
to Exhibit (10)(g) of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2000).

(d)

PACCAR
Inc Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-employee Directors
(incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the 2000 Proxy Statement, dated
March 16, 2000).

(e)

PACCAR
Inc Long Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A of the
2002 Proxy Statement, dated March 19, 2002).

(f)

PACCAR
Inc Senior Executive Yearly Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by
reference to Appendix B of the 2002 Proxy Statement, dated March 19, 2002).

(13)

Annual report to
security holders

Portions of
the 2003 Annual Report to Shareholders have been incorporated by reference and
are filed herewith.

(21)

Subsidiaries of
the registrant

(23)

Consent of
independent auditors

(24)

Power of
attorney

Powers of
attorney of certain directors

(31)

Rule
13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications:

(a)

Certification
of Principal Executive Officer.

(b)

Certification
of Principal Financial Officer

(32)

Section 1350
Certifications:

(a)

Certification
pursuant to rule 13a-14(b) and section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(18 U.S.C. section 1350).

(b)

The
following report on Form 8-K has been filed for the three months ended December
31, 2003:

(1)

On
October 21, 2003, PACCAR issued a press release announcing its financial
results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2003 and announcing that it
would hold a conference call with securities analysts to discuss third quarter
2003 earnings to be held that same day.

(c)

Exhibits

The response
to this portion of Item 15 is submitted as a separate section of this report.

(d)

Financial
Statement Schedules

All schedules
are omitted because the required matter or conditions are not present or be­cause
the information required by the schedules is submitted as part of the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.


ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

ITEM 15(c)

CERTAIN EXHIBITS

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER
31, 2003

PACCAR INC AND SUBSIDIARIES

BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON