
10-K405
PACCAR, INC. FORM 10-K405



================================================================================
                                   FORM 10-K
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

[X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [Fee Required]

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

Commission File No. 0-6394

                                    PACCAR INC       
             ------------------------------------------------------   
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)



Registrant's telephone number, including area code   (206) 455-7400  
                                                     --------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                          Common Stock, $12 par value
                        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
                        --------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter periods that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes  X    No 
                                                      -----    -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [x]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of March 1, 1995:

                 Common Stock, $12 par value -- $1,506,723,855
                 ---------------------------------------------

The number of shares outstanding of the issuer's classes of common stock, as of
March 1, 1995:

                Common Stock, $12 par value -- 38,859,281 shares
                ------------------------------------------------

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1994 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

Portions of the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting to be held
on April 25, 1995 are incorporated by reference into Part III.
================================================================================

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

         (a) General Development of Business

         PACCAR Inc (the Company), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in
1971, is the successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company which was
incorporated in Washington in 1924. The Company traces its predecessors to
Seattle Car Manufacturing Company formed in 1905.

         In the U.S., the Company's manufacturing operations are conducted
through unincorporated manufacturing divisions and a wholly owned subsidiary.
Each of the divisions and the subsidiary are responsible for at least one of
the Company's products. That responsibility includes new product development,
applications engineering, manufacturing and marketing. Outside the U.S., the
Company manufactures and sells through wholly owned subsidiary companies in
Canada and Australia, in the United Kingdom through a wholly owned U.S.
subsidiary, and through an affiliate in Mexico. In January 1994, the Company
increased its ownership in the Mexican affiliate from 49% to 55%. An export
sales division generally is responsible for export sales. Product financing and
leasing is offered through U.S. and foreign finance subsidiaries. A U.S.
subsidiary is responsible for retail automotive parts sales.

         (b)     Financial Information About Industry Segments and Geographic
Areas

         Information about the Company's industry segments and geographic areas
in response to Items 101(b), (c)(1)(i), and (d) of Regulation S-K appears on
page  39 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1994 and is incorporated herein by reference.

         (c)     Narrative Description of Business

         The Company has three principal industry segments, (1) manufacture of
heavy-duty trucks and related parts, (2) automotive parts sales and related
services, and (3) finance and leasing services provided to customers and
dealers. Manufactured products also include industrial winches and oilfield
equipment. The Company competes in the truck parts aftermarket primarily
through its dealer network. It sells general automotive parts and accessories
through retail outlets. The Company's finance and leasing activities are
principally related to Company products and associated equipment.

TRUCKS

         The Company designs and manufactures trucks which are marketed under
the Peterbilt, Kenworth, and Foden nameplates in the Class 8 diesel category
(having a minimum gross vehicle weight of 33,000 pounds). These vehicles, which
are built in five plants in the U.S. and one each in Australia, Canada, the
United Kingdom and Mexico, are used worldwide for over-the-road and off-highway
heavy-duty hauling of freight, petroleum, wood products, construction and other
materials. Heavy-duty trucks and related service parts are the largest segment
of the Company's business, accounting for 90% of total 1994 revenues.





                                      -2-

         The Company competes in the North American Class 6/7 markets with
cab-over-engine and conventional models. These medium-duty trucks are assembled
at several PACCAR factories in North America. This line of business represents
a small percentage of the Company's sales to date.

         Trucks are sold to independent dealers for resale. The Company's U.S.
independent dealer network consists of 290 outlets. Trucks manufactured in the
U.S. for export are marketed by PACCAR International, a U.S. division. Those
sales are made through a worldwide network of 36 dealers. Trucks manufactured
in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, and Mexico are marketed domestically
through independent dealers and factory branches; trucks manufactured in these
countries for export are also marketed by PACCAR International.

         The Company's trucks are essentially custom products and have a
reputation for high quality. Major components, such as engines, transmissions
and axles, as well as a substantial percentage of other components, are
purchased from component manufacturers pursuant to customer specifications.

         Raw materials and other components used in the manufacture of trucks
are purchased from a number of suppliers. The Company is not limited to any
single source for any major component. No significant shortages of materials or
components were experienced in 1994 and none are expected in 1995.
Manufacturing inventory levels are based upon production schedules and orders
are placed with suppliers accordingly.

         Replacement truck parts are sold and delivered to the Company's
independent dealers through the PACCAR Parts Division. Parts are both
manufactured by PACCAR and purchased from various suppliers. Replacement parts
inventory levels are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the
need for timely delivery.

         There were six principal competitors in the U.S. Class 8 truck market
in 1994. PACCAR's share of that market was approximately 22% of registrations
in 1994. The market is highly competitive in price, quality and service, and
PACCAR is not dependent on any single customer for its sales. There are no
significant seasonal variations.

         The Kenworth, Peterbilt and Foden trademarks and trade names are
recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of the
Company's truck products. The Company engages in a continuous program of
trademark and trade name protection in all marketing areas of the world.

         Although the Company's truck products are subject to environmental
noise and emission controls, competing manufacturers are subject to the same
controls. The Company believes the cost of complying with noise and emission
controls will not be detrimental to its business.

         The Company's truck sales backlog (subject to cancellation in certain
events) at year-end 1994 was estimated at $3,146,000,000. This compares with
$1,268,000,000 at year-end 1993. Production of the year-end 1994 backlog is
expected to be completed during 1995.





                                      -3-

         The number of persons employed by the Company in its truck business at
December 31, 1994 was approximately 11,000, including employees of its Mexican
affiliate.

OTHER MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS

         Other products manufactured by the Company account for 2% of total
1994 revenues. This group includes industrial winches and oilfield extraction
pumps and service equipment. Winches are manufactured in two U.S. plants and
are marketed under the Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic nameplates. Oilfield
extraction pumps and service equipment are manufactured in four U.S. plants and
marketed under the Trico and Kobe nameplates. In 1994, Trico purchased the
hydraulic pump business from National Oil Well. In 1995, Trico will relocate
its headquarters to Texas and consolidate its manufacturing to two locations.
The markets for all of these products are highly competitive and the Company
competes with a number of well established firms.

         The Braden, Carco, Gearmatic, Trico, and Kobe trademarks and trade
names are recognized internationally and play an important role in the
marketing of those products. The Company has an ongoing program of trademark
and trade name protection in all relevant marketing areas.

AUTOMOTIVE PARTS

         The Company purchases and sells general automotive parts and
accessories, which account for 4% of total 1994 revenues, through 121 retail
locations under the names of Grand Auto and Al's Auto Supply. These locations
are supplied from the Company's distribution warehouses.

FINANCE COMPANIES

         In North America, Australia and the United Kingdom, the Company
provides financing principally for its manufactured trucks through four wholly
owned finance companies and through a wholly owned subsidiary of its Mexican
affiliate. These companies provide inventory financing for independent dealers
selling PACCAR products and retail and lease financing for new and used Class
6, 7 and 8 trucks sold by its independent dealers. Customer contracts are
secured by the products financed.

LEASING COMPANIES

         PACCAR Leasing Corporation (PLC), a wholly owned subsidiary,
franchises selected PACCAR truck dealers to engage in full service truck
leasing under the PacLease trade name. PLC also leases equipment to and
provides managerial and sales support for its franchisees. A division of PACCAR
of Canada Ltd. conducts similar leasing operations in Canada. RAILEASE Inc, a
wholly owned subsidiary, leases railcars to a railroad.





                                      -4-

GENERAL INFORMATION

         PATENTS

         The Company owns numerous patents which relate to all product lines.
Although these patents are considered important to the overall conduct of the
Company's business, no patent or group of patents is considered essential to a
material part of the Company's business.

         RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

         The Company maintains a technical center where product testing and
research and development activities are conducted. Additional product
development activities are conducted within each separate manufacturing
division. Amounts spent on research and development were approximately $35
million in 1994, $22 million in 1993 and $21 million in 1992.

         REGULATION

         As a manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the
National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
The Company believes it is in compliance with the Act and applicable safety
standards.

         Information regarding the effects that compliance with federal, state
and local provisions regulating the environment have on the Company's capital
and operating expenditures and the Company's involvement in environmental
cleanup activities is included in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Items 7 and 8, respectively.

         EMPLOYEES

         On December 31, 1994, the Company employed a total of 14,600 persons,
including employees of its Mexican affiliate.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

         The Company and its subsidiaries and affiliate own and operate
manufacturing plants in seven U.S. states, Canada, Australia, Mexico and the
United Kingdom including a hydraulic pump manufacturing facility in San Marcos,
Texas which was purchased in 1994. Several parts distribution centers, sales
and service facilities and finance and administrative offices are also operated
in owned or leased premises in these five countries. A facility for product
testing and research and development is located in Skagit County, Washington.
Retail auto parts sales locations are primarily in leased premises in five
western states. The Company's corporate headquarters is located in owned
premises in Bellevue, Washington.





                                      -5-

         The Company considers substantially all of the properties used by its
businesses to be suitable for their intended purposes. Due to improved business
conditions in 1994 in the markets served by the Company's business segments,
many of the Company's manufacturing facilities operated at or near their
productive capacities.

         Geographical locations of manufacturing plants within indicated
industry segments are as follows:



         Properties located in Torrance, and Signal Hill, California; and
Seattle, Washington are being held for sale. These properties were originally
obtained principally as a result of business acquisitions in 1987 and 1988.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various lawsuits
incidental to the ordinary course of business. Management believes that the
disposition of such lawsuits will not materially affect the Company's
consolidated financial position.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of 1994.





                                      -6-

                                    PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

         Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends on page 40 of the Annual
Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994 are incorporated
herein by reference.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         Selected Financial Data on page 41 of the Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994 are incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations on pages 21 through 24 of the Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994 is incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The following consolidated financial statements of the registrant and
its subsidiaries, included in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1994 are incorporated herein by reference:

         Consolidated Balance Sheets
                 -- December 31, 1994 and 1993

         Consolidated Statements of Income
                 -- Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

         Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
                 -- Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                 -- Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 -- December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

Quarterly Results (Unaudited) on page 41 of the Annual Report to Stockholders
for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 are incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         The registrant has not had any disagreements with its independent
auditors on accounting or financial disclosure matters.





                                      -7-

                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Item 401(a), (d), (e) and Item 405 of Regulation S-K:

         Identification of directors, family relationships, business experience
and compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act on pages 3 and 4 of the
proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 25, 1995 is
incorporated herein by reference.

         Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K:

    Executive Officers of the registrant as of February 1, 1995:

                                                                           






                                      -8-

                                             


Officers are elected annually but may be appointed or removed on interim dates.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers and Related Matters
on pages 6 through 12 of the proxy statement for the annual stockholders
meeting of April 25, 1995 is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Stock ownership information on pages 1 through 3 of the proxy
statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 25, 1995 is incorporated
herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Information on page 5 of the proxy statement for the annual
stockholders meeting of April 25, 1995 is incorporated herein by reference.





                                      -9-

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         (a)     (1) and (2) -    The response to this portion of Item 14 is
                                  submitted as a separate section of this 
                                  report.

                 (3)      Listing of Exhibits (in order of assigned index
                          numbers)

                          (3)     Articles of incorporation and bylaws

                                  (a)      PACCAR Inc Certificate of
                                           Incorporation, as amended to April
                                           27, 1990 (incorporated by reference
                                           to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                                           for the quarter ended March 31,
                                           1990).

                                  (b)      PACCAR Inc Bylaws, as amended to
                                           April 26, 1994 (incorporated by
                                           reference to the Quarterly Report on
                                           Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                                           March 31, 1994).

                          (4)     Instruments defining the rights of security
                                  holders, including indentures

                                  (a)      Rights agreement dated as of
                                           December 21, 1989 between PACCAR Inc
                                           and First Chicago Trust Company of
                                           New York setting forth the terms of
                                           the Series A Junior Participating
                                           Preferred Stock, no par value per
                                           share (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibit 1 of the Current Report on
                                           Form 8-K of PACCAR Inc dated
                                           December 27, 1989).

                                  (b)      Indenture for Senior Debt Securities
                                           dated as of December 1, 1983 between
                                           PACCAR Financial Corp. and Citibank,
                                           N.A., Trustee (incorporated by
                                           reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the
                                           Annual Report on Form 10-K of PACCAR
                                           Financial Corp. for the year ended
                                           December 31, 1983).

                                  (c)      First Supplemental Indenture dated
                                           as of June 19, 1989 between PACCAR
                                           Financial Corp. and Citibank, N.A.,
                                           Trustee (incorporated by reference
                                           to Exhibit 4.2 to PACCAR Financial
                                           Corp.'s registration statement on
                                           Form S-3, Registration No.
                                           33-29434).

                                  (d)      Forms of Medium-Term Note, Series E
                                           (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibits 4.3A, 4.3B and 4.3C to
                                           PACCAR Financial Corp.'s
                                           Registration Statement on Form S-3
                                           dated June 23, 1989, Registration
                                           Number 33-29434, and Forms of
                                           Medium-Term Note, Series E,
                                           incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                           4.3B.1 to PACCAR Financial Corp.'s
                                           Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
                                           December 19, 1991, under Commission
                                           File Number 0-12553).

                                           Letter of Representation among PACCAR
                                           Financial Corp., Citibank, N.A. and
                                           the Depository Trust Company, Series
                                           E, dated July 6, 1989 (incorporated
                                           by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of
                                           PACCAR Financial Corp.'s Annual
                                           Report on Form 10-K, dated March 29,
                                           1990. File Number 0-12553).





                                      -10-

                                  (e)      Forms of Medium-Term Note, Series F
                                           (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibits 4.3A, 4.3B and 4.3C to
                                           PACCAR Financial Corp.'s
                                           Registration Statement on Form S-3
                                           dated May 26, 1992, Registration
                                           Number 33-48118).

                                           Form of Letter of Representation 
                                           among PACCAR Financial Corp., 
                                           Citibank, N.A. and the Depository 
                                           Trust Company, Series F 
                                           (incorporated by reference to 
                                           Exhibit 4.4 to PACCAR
                                           Financial Corp.'s Registration
                                           Statement on Form S-3 dated May 26,
                                           1992, Registration Number 33-48118).

                                  (f)      Forms of Medium-Term Note, Series G
                                           (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibits 4.3A and 4.3B to PACCAR
                                           Financial Corp.'s Registration
                                           Statement on Form S-3 dated December
                                           8, 1993, Registration Number 33-
                                           51335).

                                           Form of Letter of Representation 
                                           among PACCAR Financial Corp., 
                                           Citibank, N.A. and the Depository 
                                           Trust Company, Series G 
                                           (incorporated by reference to 
                                           Exhibit 4.4 to PACCAR
                                           Financial Corp.'s Registration
                                           Statement on Form S-3 dated December
                                           8, 1993, Registration Number
                                           33-51335).

                          (10)    Material contracts

                                  (a)      PACCAR Inc Incentive Compensation
                                           Plan (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibit (10)(a) of the Annual Report
                                           on Form 10-K for the year ended
                                           December 31, 1980).

                                  (b)      PACCAR Inc Deferred Compensation
                                           Plan for Directors (incorporated by
                                           reference to Exhibit (10)(b) of the
                                           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                                           year ended December 31, 1980).

                                  (c)      Supplemental Retirement Plan
                                           (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibit (10)(c) of the Annual Report
                                           on Form 10-K for the year ended
                                           December 31, 1980).

                                  (d)      1981 Long Term Incentive Plan
                                           (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibit A of the 1982 Proxy
                                           Statement, dated March 25, 1982).

                                  (e)      Amendment to 1981 Long Term
                                           Incentive Plan (incorporated by
                                           reference to Exhibit (10)(a) of the
                                           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                                           the quarter ended March 31, 1991).

                                  (f)      PACCAR Inc 1991 Long-Term Incentive
                                           Plan (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibit (10)(h) of the Quarterly
                                           Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                                           ended June 30, 1992).

                                  (g)      Amended and Restated Deferred
                                           Incentive Compensation Plan
                                           (incorporated by reference to
                                           Exhibit (10)(g) of the Annual Report
                                           on Form 10-K for the year ended
                                           December 31, 1993).

                          (13)    Annual report to security holders

                                  Portions of the 1994 Annual Report to
                                  Shareholders have been incorporated by
                                  reference and are filed herewith.






                                      -11-

                          (21)    Subsidiaries of the registrant

                          (23)    Consent of independent auditors

                          (24)    Power of attorney

                                  Powers of attorney of certain directors

                          (27)    Financial Data Schedule

(b)      No reports on Form 8-K were filed for the three months ended December
         31, 1994.

(c)      Exhibits

(d)      Financial Statement Schedules -- The response to this portion of Item
         14 is submitted as a separate section of this report.





                                      -12-

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                       PACCAR Inc              
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                       Registrant

                                          /s/ C. M. Pigott             3-24-95 
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          C. M. Pigott, Director, Chairman and
                                          Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


                                             
                                                     
* Pursuant to power of attorney

                                    -13-








                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                       ITEM 14(a)(1) AND (2), (c) AND (d)

         LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                CERTAIN EXHIBITS

                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

                          PACCAR INC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                              BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON






                                    -14-

FORM 10-K -- ITEM 14(A)(1) AND (2)
PACCAR INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


The following consolidated financial statements of PACCAR Inc and subsidiaries,
included in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1994 are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

                 Consolidated Balance Sheets
                          -- December 31, 1994 and 1993

                 Consolidated Statements of Income
                          -- Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
                          -- Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

                 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                          -- Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

                 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                          -- December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

The following consolidated financial statement schedule of PACCAR Inc and
consolidated subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

                 Schedule II -- Allowances for Losses


All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.




                                    -15-



                          PACCAR INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      SCHEDULE II - ALLOWANCES FOR LOSSES
                             (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)



(A)      Allowance for losses deducted from trade receivables.
(B)      Allowance for losses deducted from notes, contracts, and other
         receivables.
(1)      Uncollectible trade receivables, notes, contracts and other
         receivables written off, net of recoveries.



                                    -16-

