
10-K405
10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                      FORM 10-K
                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
  [X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934 [No Fee Required]
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
Commission File No. 0-6394
                                      PACCAR INC
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                Delaware                               91-0351110
- --------------------------------------   --------------------------------------
      (State of incorporation)            (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

    777 - 106th Ave. N.E., Bellevue, Washington                        98004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   (Address of principal executive offices)                          (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code   (206) 455-7400
                                                  ------------------

             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:


                             Common Stock, $12 par value
                           Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter periods that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes  X   No
                                              -----   -----
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [x]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of February 28, 1997:
                    Common Stock, $12 par value -- $2,300,042,588
                    ---------------------------------------------

The number of shares outstanding of the issuer's classes of common stock, as of
February 28, 1997:
                   Common Stock, $12 par value -- 38,884,797 shares
                   ------------------------------------------------

                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1996 are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

Portions of the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting to be held
on April 29, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Part III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                        PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

  (a) General Development of Business

  PACCAR Inc (the Company), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1971, is
the successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company which was incorporated in
Washington in 1924. The Company traces its predecessors to Seattle Car
Manufacturing Company formed in 1905.

  In the United States, the Company's manufacturing operations are conducted
through unincorporated manufacturing divisions and a wholly owned subsidiary.
Each of the divisions and the subsidiary are responsible for at least one of the
Company's products. That responsibility includes new product development,
applications engineering, manufacturing and marketing.

  Outside the U.S., the Company manufactures and sells trucks through wholly
owned foreign subsidiary companies in Canada, Australia, and Mexico, and, in the
United Kingdom, through a wholly owned U.S. subsidiary. An export sales division
generally is responsible for export sales.

  Effective November 15, 1996 the Company purchased all outstanding shares of
DAF Trucks N.V. (DAF), a Netherlands corporation. In addition to its Netherlands
plant and headquarters, DAF manufactures cabs and axles at a plant located in
Belgium. DAF has wholly owned foreign sales subsidiaries located in the country
of export which generally handle export sales.

  Product financing and leasing is offered through subsidiaries located in North
America, Australia, and the United Kingdom. A U.S. subsidiary is responsible for
retail automotive parts sales.

  (b) Financial Information About Industry Segments and Geographic Areas

  Information about the Company's industry segments and geographic areas in
response to Items 101(b), (c)(1)(i), and (d) of Regulation S-K appears on pages
38 and 39 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1996 and is incorporated herein by reference.

  (c) Narrative Description of Business

  The Company has three principal industry segments, (1) manufacture of
heavy-duty trucks and distribution of related parts, (2) automotive parts sales
and related services, and (3) finance and leasing services provided to customers
and dealers. Manufactured products also include industrial winches and oilfield
equipment. The Company competes in the truck parts aftermarket primarily through
its dealer network. It sells general automotive parts and accessories through
retail outlets. The Company's finance and leasing activities are principally
related to Company products and associated equipment.


                                         -2-



TRUCKS

  The Company designs and manufactures trucks which are marketed under the
Peterbilt, Kenworth, and Foden nameplates in the Class 8 diesel category (having
a minimum gross vehicle weight of 33,000 pounds). DAF designs and manufactures
heavy commercial vehicles under the DAF nameplate. These vehicles, which are
built in four plants in the United States, three in Europe and one each in
Australia, Canada, and Mexico, are used worldwide for over-the-road and
off-highway heavy-duty hauling of freight, petroleum, wood products,
construction and other materials. Heavy-duty trucks and related service parts
are the largest segment of the Company's business, accounting for 87% of total
1996 revenues.

  The Company competes in the North American Class 6/7 markets primarily with
conventional models. These medium-duty trucks are assembled at VILPAC, the
Company's Mexican subsidiary in Mexicali, Mexico. This line of business
represents a small, but increasing, percentage of the Company's North American
sales to date. In the Netherlands, DAF manufactures Class 6/7 cab-over-engine
trucks for sale throughout Europe. DAF is the exclusive distributor in Europe
for Class 4/5 cab-over-engine trucks manufactured by Leyland Trucks Ltd. in the
United Kingdom.

  Trucks and related parts are sold to independent dealers for resale. The
Company's U.S. and Canadian independent dealer network consists of approximately
430 outlets. Trucks manufactured in the U.S. for export are marketed by PACCAR
International, a U.S. division. Those sales are made through a worldwide network
of 33 dealers. Trucks manufactured in Australia, Mexico, the Netherlands and the
United Kingdom are marketed domestically through independent dealers and factory
branches. Trucks manufactured in these countries for export are also marketed by
PACCAR International with the exception of DAF, which handles export sales
primarily through wholly owned foreign subsidiaries located generally in the
European Community and Eastern Europe.

  The Company's trucks are essentially custom products and have a reputation for
high quality. For a majority of PACCAR's truck operations, major components,
such as engines, transmissions and axles, as well as a substantial percentage of
other components, are purchased from component manufacturers pursuant to
customer specifications. DAF, which is more vertically integrated, manufactures
its own engines and axles.

  Raw materials and other components used in the manufacture of trucks are
purchased from a number of suppliers. The Company is not limited to any single
source for any significant component. No significant shortages of materials or
components were experienced in 1996 and none are expected in 1997. Manufacturing
inventory levels are based upon production schedules and orders are placed with
suppliers accordingly.

  Replacement truck parts are sold and delivered to the Company's independent
dealers through the Company's parts divisions. Parts are both manufactured by
PACCAR and purchased from various suppliers. Replacement parts inventory levels
are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the need for timely
delivery.


                                         -3-



    There were six principal competitors in the U.S. Class 8 truck market in
1996. PACCAR's share of that market was approximately 21% of registrations in
1996. There were also six principal competitors in the European medium and heavy
commercial vehicle market in 1996, including parent companies to three
competitors of PACCAR in the United States. PACCAR's subsidiary, DAF, had a nine
percent overall market share in Western Europe. These markets are highly
competitive in price, quality and service, and PACCAR is not dependent on any
single customer for its sales. There are no significant seasonal variations.

  The Kenworth, Peterbilt, DAF and Foden trademarks and trade names are
recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of the
Company's truck products. The Company engages in a continuous program of
trademark and trade name protection in all marketing areas of the world.

  Although the Company's truck products are subject to environmental noise and
emission controls, competing manufacturers are subject to the same controls. The
Company believes the cost of complying with noise and emission controls will not
be detrimental to its business.

  The Company's truck sales backlog at year-end 1996 was $1.4 billion. This
compares with approximately $2 billion at year-end 1995. Production of the
year-end 1996 backlog is expected to be completed during 1997.

  The number of persons employed by the Company in its truck business at
December 31, 1996 was approximately 13,000.

OTHER MANUFACTURED PRODUCTS

  Other products manufactured by the Company account for 3% of total 1996
revenues. This group includes industrial winches and oilfield extraction pumps
and service equipment. Winches are manufactured in two U.S. plants and are
marketed under the Braden, Carco, and Gearmatic nameplates. Oilfield extraction
pumps and service equipment are marketed under the Trico, Kobe, Unidraulic and
Oilmaster nameplates through the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Trico. The
markets for all of these products are highly competitive and the Company
competes with a number of well established firms.

  The Braden, Carco, Gearmatic, Trico, Kobe, Unidraulic and Oilmaster trademarks
and trade names are recognized internationally and play an important role in the
marketing of those products. The Company has an ongoing program of trademark and
trade name protection in all relevant marketing areas.

AUTOMOTIVE PARTS

  The Company purchases and sells general automotive parts and accessories,
which account for 4% of total 1996 revenues, through 128 retail locations under
the names of Grand Auto and Al's Auto Supply. These locations are supplied from
the Company's distribution warehouses.


                                         -4-



FINANCE COMPANIES

  In North America, Australia and the United Kingdom, the Company provides
financing principally for its manufactured trucks through five wholly owned
finance companies. These companies provide inventory financing for independent
dealers selling PACCAR products and retail and lease financing for new and used
Class 6, 7 and 8 trucks and other transportation equipment sold by its
independent dealers. Customer contracts are secured by the products financed.

LEASING COMPANIES

  PACCAR Leasing Corporation (PLC), a wholly owned subsidiary, franchises
selected PACCAR truck dealers in North America to engage in full service truck
leasing under the PacLease trade name. PLC also leases equipment to and provides
managerial and sales support for its franchisees. The subsidiary also operates
full service leasing operations primarily in Texas on its own behalf.

GENERAL INFORMATION

  PATENTS

  The Company owns numerous patents which relate to all product lines. Although
these patents are considered important to the overall conduct of the Company's
business, no patent or group of patents is considered essential to a material
part of the Company's business.

  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

  The Company maintains a technical center where product testing and research
and development activities are conducted. Additional product development
activities are conducted within each separate manufacturing division. Amounts
spent on research and development were approximately $47 million in 1996, $37
million in 1995 and $35 million in 1994.

  REGULATION

  As a manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the National
Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards
promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The Company
believes it is in compliance with the Act and applicable safety standards.

  Information regarding the effects that compliance with international, federal,
state and local provisions regulating the environment have on the Company's
capital and operating expenditures and the Company's involvement in
environmental cleanup activities is included in Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Items 7 and 8,
respectively.


                                         -5-



  EMPLOYEES

  On December 31, 1996, the Company employed a total of approximately 17,000
persons.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

  The Company and its subsidiaries own and operate manufacturing plants in five
U.S. states, three locations in Europe, and one each in Australia, Canada and
Mexico. Several parts distribution centers, sales and service facilities and
finance and administrative offices are also operated in owned or leased premises
in these five countries. DAF operates sales subsidiaries in owned or leased
premises in various countries throughout Europe. A facility for product testing
and research and development is located in Skagit County, Washington. Retail
auto parts sales locations are primarily in leased premises in five western
states. The Company's corporate headquarters is located in owned premises in
Bellevue, Washington.

  The Company considers substantially all of the properties used by its
businesses to be suitable for their intended purposes. In March, 1996 the
Company announced that it would cease manufacturing operations at its Seattle
plant in April, 1996. This facility continues to be used for warehousing of
inventories. It is not included as a manufacturing plant in the table below.
PACCAR also announced the closure of its Canadian truck plant for economic
reasons. Subsequent to the closure, PACCAR was approached by Canadian government
and labor union officials regarding the possibility of reopening the plant.
Negotiations with these parties are currently underway. While the Company is
hopeful that final agreements will be signed in 1997, there is no assurance that
this will occur. The Canadian plant is shown as a truck manufacturing facility
in the accompanying table; however, no production occurred at the Canadian
location in 1996. The Company's remaining manufacturing facilities operated near
their productive capacities for most of 1996.

  Geographical locations of manufacturing plants within indicated industry
segments are as follows:

                       U.S.     Canada   Australia    Mexico    Europe

          Trucks        4         1          1          1          3
          Other         4         -          -          -          -

  Properties located in Gardena, Torrance, and Huntington Park, California;
Bradford, Pennsylvania; Seattle, Washington and Surrey, British Columbia, Canada
are being held for sale. These properties were originally obtained principally
as a result of business acquisitions in 1987 and 1988.


                                         -6-



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various lawsuits incidental to
the ordinary course of business. Management believes that the disposition of
such lawsuits will not materially affect the Company's consolidated financial
position.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1996.



                                       PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

  Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends on page 40 of the Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1996 are incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  Selected Financial Data on page 41 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for
the year ended December 31, 1996 are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on pages 21 through 24 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 1996 is incorporated herein by reference.


                                         -7-



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

  The following consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its
subsidiaries, included in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1996 are incorporated herein by reference:

  Consolidated Balance Sheets
         -- December 31, 1996 and 1995

  Consolidated Statements of Income
         -- Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
         -- Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
         -- Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         -- December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

Quarterly Results (Unaudited) on page 41 of the Annual Report to Stockholders
for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 are incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    The registrant has not had any disagreements with its independent auditors
on accounting or financial disclosure matters.


                                         -8-



                                       PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  Item 401(a), (d), (e) and Item 405 of Regulation S-K:

  Identification of directors, family relationships, business experience and
compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act on pages 3 and 4 of the proxy
statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 29, 1997 is incorporated
herein by reference.

  Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K:

    Executive Officers of the registrant as of February 14, 1997:

                                  Present Position and Other Position(s)
Name and Age                      Held During Last Five Years
- ------------                      --------------------------------------------
Mark C. Pigott (43)               Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Vice
                                  Chairman from January 1995 to December 1996;
                                  Executive Vice President from December 1993
                                  to January 1995; previously Senior Vice
                                  President. Mr. Pigott is the son of Charles
                                  M. Pigott, a director of the Company, and
                                  nephew of James C. Pigott, also a director of
                                  the Company.

David J. Hovind (56)              President; Executive Vice President from July
                                  1987 to January 1992.

Michael A. Tembreull (50)         Vice Chairman; Executive Vice President from
                                  January 1992 to January 1995; previously
                                  Senior Vice President.

Gary S. Moore (53)                Senior Vice President; General Manager,
                                  Kenworth Truck Company from March 1990 to
                                  August 1992.

T. Ron Morton (50)                Senior Vice President; President, PACCAR
                                  Financial Corp. since August, 1988.

Thomas E. Plimpton (47)           Senior Vice President; General Manager,
                                  Peterbilt Motors Company from January, 1992
                                  to May, 1996.

G. Don Hatchel (52)               Vice President and Controller.

G. Glen Morie (54)                Vice President and General Counsel.

Officers are elected annually but may be appointed or removed on interim dates.


                                         -9-



ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  Compensation of Directors and Executive Officers and Related Matters on pages
5 through 19 of the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of
April 29, 1997 is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

  Stock ownership information on pages 1 through 3 of the proxy statement for
the annual stockholders meeting of April 29, 1997 is incorporated herein by
reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

  No transactions with management and others as defined by Item 404 of
Regulation S-K occurred in 1996.


                                         -10-



                                       PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) (1) and (2) -  The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a
                   separate section of this report.

    (3) Listing of Exhibits (in order of assigned index numbers)

       (2)    Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or
              succession:

              (a)  "Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of the Entire Issued
              and Outstanding Share Capital of DAF Trucks N.V." (incorporated
              by reference to Form 8-K/A, Amendment No. 1 to Current Report,
              filed December 6, 1996).

         (3)  Articles of incorporation and bylaws

              (a)  PACCAR Inc Certificate of Incorporation, as amended to
              April 27, 1990 (incorporated by reference to the Quarterly Report
              on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1990).

              (b)  PACCAR Inc Bylaws, as amended to April 26, 1994
              (incorporated by reference to the Quarterly Report on
              Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994).

       (4)    Instruments defining the rights of security holders, including
              indentures

              (a)  Rights agreement dated as of December 21, 1989 between
              PACCAR Inc and First Chicago Trust Company of New York setting
              forth the terms of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred
              Stock, no par value per share (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 1 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of PACCAR Inc dated
              December 27, 1989).

              (b)  Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of December 1,
              1983 between PACCAR Financial Corp. and Citibank, N.A., Trustee
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Annual Report on
              Form 10-K of PACCAR Financial Corp. for the year ended December
              31, 1983).

              (c)  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 19, 1989
              between PACCAR Financial Corp. and Citibank, N.A., Trustee
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to PACCAR Financial
              Corp.'s registration statement on Form S-3, Registration No.
              33-29434).

              (d)  Forms of Medium-Term Note, Series E (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibits 4.3A, 4.3B and 4.3C to PACCAR Financial
              Corp.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated June 23, 1989,
              Registration Number 33-29434, and Forms of Medium-Term Note,
              Series E, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3B.1 to PACCAR
              Financial Corp.'s Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 19,
              1991, under Commission File Number 0-12553).


                                         -11-



              Letter of Representation among PACCAR Financial Corp., Citibank,
              N.A. and the Depository Trust Company, Series E, dated July 6,
              1989 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of PACCAR
              Financial Corp.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K, dated March 29,
              1990. File Number 0-12553).

              (e)  Forms of Medium-Term Note, Series F (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibits 4.3A, 4.3B and 4.3C to PACCAR Financial
              Corp.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated May 26, 1992,
              Registration Number 33-48118).

              Form of Letter of Representation among PACCAR Financial Corp.,
              Citibank, N.A. and the Depository Trust Company, Series F
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PACCAR Financial
              Corp.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated May 26, 1992,
              Registration Number 33-48118).

              (f)  Forms of Medium-Term Note, Series G (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibits 4.3A and 4.3B to PACCAR Financial Corp.'s
              Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated December 8, 1993,
              Registration Number 33-51335).

              Form of Letter of Representation among PACCAR Financial Corp.,
              Citibank, N.A. and the Depository Trust Company, Series G
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PACCAR Financial
              Corp.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated December 8,
              1993, Registration Number 33-51335).

              (g)  Forms of Medium-Term Note, Series H (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibits 4.3A and 4.3B to PACCAR Financial Corp.'s
              Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated March 11, 1996,
              Registration Number 333-01623).

              Form of Letter of Representation among PACCAR Financial Corp.,
              Citibank, N.A. and the Depository Trust Company, Series H
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to PACCAR Financial
              Corp.'s Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated March 11, 1996,
              Registration Number 333-01623).

       (10) Material contracts

              (a)  PACCAR Inc Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit (10)(a) of the Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the year ended December 31, 1980).

              (b)  PACCAR Inc Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(b) of the Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1980).

              (c)  Supplemental Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit (10)(c) of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
              ended December 31, 1980).

              (d)  1981 Long Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit A of the 1982 Proxy Statement, dated March 25, 1982).


                                         -12-



              (e)  Amendment to 1981 Long Term Incentive Plan (incorporated
              by reference to Exhibit (10)(a) of the Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1991).

              (f)  PACCAR Inc 1991 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated
              by reference to Exhibit (10)(h) of the Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1992).

              (g)  Amended and Restated Deferred Incentive Compensation Plan
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)(g) of the Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

       (13)   Annual report to security holders
              Portions of the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders have been
              incorporated by reference and are filed herewith.

       (21)   Subsidiaries of the registrant

       (23)   Consent of independent auditors

       (24)   Power of attorney
              Powers of attorney of certain directors

       (27)   Financial Data Schedule

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K
    The following reports on Form 8-K were filed in the fourth quarter of 1996:
    (1)  Current Report on Form 8-K was filed October 8, 1996 containing
         PACCAR's press release announcing the Company's offer to acquire DAF
         Trucks N.V.
    (2)  Current Report on Form 8-K related to the acquisition of DAF Trucks
         N.V. was filed November 27, 1996. Amendment No. 1 was filed December
         6, 1996.

(c) Exhibits

(d) Financial Statement Schedules -- The response to this portion of Item 14 is
    submitted as a separate section of this report.


                                         -13-



                                      SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                       PACCAR INC
                                             ----------------------------------
                                                       Registrant

Date:    March 26, 1997                     /s/ M. C. Pigott
         ---------------                    ----------------------------------
                                            M. C. Pigott, Director, Chairman
                                            and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated.

SIGNATURE                                   TITLE
- ---------                                   -----

/s/ M. A. Tembreull                         Director and Vice Chairman
- ---------------------                       (Principal Financial Officer)
M. A. Tembreull

/s/ G. D. Hatchel                           Vice President and Controller
- ---------------------                       (Principal Accounting Officer)
G. D. Hatchel

*/s/ C. M. Pigott                           Director and Chairman Emeritus
- ---------------------
C. M. Pigott

*/s/ D. J. Hovind                           Director and President
- ---------------------
D. J. Hovind

*/s/ J. W. Pitts                            Director and Chairman of
- ---------------------                       Audit Committee
J. W. Pitts

*/s/ J. C. Pigott                           Director and Audit Committee Member
- ---------------------
J. C. Pigott

*/s/ J. M. Fluke, Jr.                       Director and Audit Committee Member
- ---------------------
J. M. Fluke, Jr.

*/s/ H. J. Haynes                           Director
- ---------------------
H. J. Haynes

*/s/ J. H. Wiborg                           Director
- ---------------------
J. H. Wiborg

*/s/ C. H. Hahn                             Director
- ---------------------
C. H. Hahn

*By /s/ M. C. Pigott
    -----------------
    M. C. Pigott
    Attorney-in-Fact


                                         -14-







                              ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                          ITEM 14(a)(1) AND (2), (c) AND (d)

            LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                   CERTAIN EXHIBITS

                            FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

                             PACCAR INC AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                 BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON






                                         -15-




FORM 10-K -- ITEM 14(a)(1) AND (2)
PACCAR INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


The following consolidated financial statements of PACCAR Inc and subsidiaries,
included in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1996 are incorporated by reference in Item 8:

    Consolidated Balance Sheets
         -- December 31, 1996 and 1995

    Consolidated Statements of Income
         -- Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
         -- Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
         -- Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         -- December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994

The following consolidated financial statement schedule of PACCAR Inc and
consolidated subsidiaries is included in Item 14(d):

    Schedule II -- Allowances for Losses


All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the
related instructions or are inapplicable, and therefore have been omitted.




                                         -16-



                             PACCAR INC AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         SCHEDULE II - ALLOWANCES FOR LOSSES
                                (Millions of Dollars)



(A) Allowance for losses deducted from trade receivables.
(B) Allowance for losses deducted from notes, contracts, and other receivables.
(1) Uncollectible trade receivables, notes, contracts and other receivables
    written off, net of recoveries.


                                         -17-


