
10-K
10-K



                                   UNITED STATES
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                          
                                     FORM 10-K
                                          
                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                        THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                          
For the fiscal year ended November 30, 1997       Commission file number 0-748

                         McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

                    Maryland                          52-0408290      
           (State of incorporation)      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

               18 Loveton Circle   
               Sparks, Maryland                               21152      
          (Address of principal executive offices)          (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code    (410) 771-7301        

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  Not applicable   

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

       Common Stock, No Par Value         Common Stock Non-Voting, No Par Value
            (Title of Class)                          (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes /X/   No  / /

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to 
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K     /X/

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the 
registrant    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .$204,420,144

The aggregate market value of the non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of 
the registrant  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .$1,847,529,347
          
The aggregate market value indicated above was calculated as follows: 

The number of shares of voting stock and non-voting stock held by 
non-affiliates of the registrant as of January 30, 1998 was 7,003,688 and 
63,298,650 respectively.  This number excludes shares held by the McCormick 
Profit Sharing Plan and PAYSOP and its Trustees, the McCormick Pension Plan 
and its Trustees, and the directors and officers of the registrant, who may 
or may not be affiliates. This number was then multiplied by the closing 
price of the stock as of January 30, 1998, $29.1875.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes 
of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.




                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
                                          



                                          
                                      PART I  

    As used herein, the "Registrant" means McCormick & Company, Incorporated 
and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. 

Item 1. Business    

    The Registrant, a diversified specialty food company, is principally 
engaged in the manufacture of spices, seasonings, flavors and other specialty 
food products and sells such products to the consumer food market, the 
foodservice market and to industrial food processors throughout the world.  
The Registrant also, through subsidiary corporations, manufactures and 
markets plastic packaging products for food, personal care and other 
industries.  

    The Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997, which is 
enclosed as Exhibit 13, contains a description of the general development, 
during the last fiscal year, of the business of the Registrant, which was 
formed in 1915 under Maryland law as the successor to a business established 
in 1889.  Pages 6 through 11 and 35 through 41 of that Report are 
incorporated by reference. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to 
amounts in this Report or in the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders 
for 1997 are amounts from continuing operations.  The Registrant's net sales 
increased 4.0% in 1997 to $1,800,966,000.    

    The Registrant operates in two business segments, Food Products and 
Packaging Products, and has disclosed in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements on pages 29 and 30 of its Annual Report to Stockholders 
for 1997, which Note is incorporated by reference, the financial information 
about the business segments required by this Item.   

    The Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997 sets forth a 
description of the business conducted by the Registrant on pages 6 through 
11. Those pages of the Registrant's Annual Report are incorporated by 
reference.

    The Registrant implemented restructuring plans in 1994 and 1996 which 
were intended to increase focus on core businesses and improve its cost 
structure.  A description of the actions taken under these plans is set forth 
in the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997 in Note 10 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 28, which Note is 
incorporated by reference.  In the third quarter of 1997, the Registrant 
reevaluated its restructuring plans.   Most of the actions required by these 
plans have been completed or are near completion and have resulted in losses 
less than originally anticipated.  In addition, an agreement in principal to 
dispose of an overseas food brokerage and distribution business was not 
consummated.  As a result of these developments, the Registrant recognized a 
restructuring credit of $9,493,000.  Concurrent with the reevaluation of 
restructuring plans, the Registrant initiated plans to streamline the 
overseas food brokerage and distribution business and to close the Freehold, 
New Jersey packaging plant. These actions resulted in a $5,734,000 
restructuring charge. The credit for the restructuring reevaluation, the 
charge for the new initiatives and charges directly related to the 
restructuring plan which could not be accrued in 1996 resulted in a net 
restructuring credit of $3,227,000 ($2,033,000 after tax) in 1997.





    In August 1996, the Registrant sold substantially all of the assets of 
Gilroy Foods, Incorporated to ConAgra, Inc. and the assets of Gilroy Energy 
Company, Inc. to an affiliate of Calpine Corporation.  The Registrant's 
Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997 sets forth a description of the sale 
of Gilroy Foods and Gilroy Energy in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements on page 28, which Note is incorporated by reference.  
Based on the settlement of terms related to assumptions used to estimate the 
gain or loss from these transactions, the Registrant recognized income from 
discontinued operations, net of income taxes of $1,013,000 in 1997.   

Principal Products/Marketing  

    Spices, seasonings, flavorings, and other specialty food products are the 
Registrant's principal products.   The Registrant also manufactures and 
markets plastic bottles and tubes for food, personal care and other products, 
primarily in the United States.  The net sales value of each of these product 
segments is set forth in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements on pages 29 and 30 of the Registrant's Annual Report to 
Stockholders for 1997, which Note is incorporated by reference.  No other 
products or classes of similar products or services contributed as much as 
10% to consolidated net sales during the last three fiscal years.

    The Registrant markets its consumer products and foodservice products 
through its own sales organization, food brokers and distributors. In the 
industrial market, sales are made mostly through the Registrant's own sales 
force.  The Registrant markets its packaging products through its own sales 
force and distributors. 

Raw Materials  

    Many of the spices and herbs purchased by the Registrant are imported 
into the United States from the country of origin, although significant 
quantities of some materials, such as paprika, dehydrated vegetables, onion 
and garlic, and food ingredients other than spices and herbs, originate in 
the United States. The Registrant is a direct importer of certain raw 
materials, mainly black pepper, vanilla beans, cinnamon, herbs and seeds from 
the countries of origin. Some of the imported materials are purchased from 
dealers in the United States. The principal purpose of such purchases is to 
satisfy the Registrant's own needs.  In addition, the Registrant also 
purchases cheese and dairy powders from US sources for use in many industrial 
products.   

    The raw materials most important to the Registrant are onion, garlic and 
capsicums (paprika and chili peppers), most of which originate in the United 
States, black pepper, most of which originates in India, Indonesia, Malaysia 
and Brazil, vanilla beans, which the Registrant obtains from the Malagasy 
Republic and Indonesia and cheese and dairy powders, most of which originate 
in the US. The Registrant does not anticipate any material restrictions or 
shortages on the availability of raw materials which would have a significant 
impact on the Registrant's business in the foreseeable future.       

    Substantially all of the raw materials used in the packaging business 
originate in the United States.




Trademarks, Licenses and Patents   

    The Registrant owns a number of registered trademarks, which in the 
aggregate may be material to the Registrant's business.  However, the loss of 
any one of those trademarks, with the exception of the Registrant's 
"McCormick," "Schilling," "Schwartz" and "Club House" trademarks, would not 
have a material adverse effect on the Registrant's business.  The "McCormick" 
and "Schilling" trademarks are extensively used by the Registrant in 
connection with the sale of a substantial number of the Registrant's products 
in the United States.  The "McCormick" and "Schilling" trademarks are 
registered and used in various foreign countries as well.  The "Schwartz" 
trademark is used by the Registrant in connection with the sale of the 
Registrant's products in Europe and the "Club House" trademark is used in 
connection with  the sale of the Registrant's products in Canada.  The terms 
of the trademark registrations are as prescribed by law and the registrations 
will be renewed for as long as the Registrant deems them to be useful.  

    The Registrant has entered into a number of license agreements 
authorizing the use of its trademarks by affiliated and non-affiliated 
entities in foreign countries.  In the aggregate, the loss of license 
agreements with non-affiliated entities would not have a material adverse 
effect on the Registrant's business. The terms of the license agreements are 
generally 3 to 5 years or until such time as either party terminates the 
agreement.  Those agreements with specific terms are renewable upon agreement 
of the parties.     

    The Registrant owns various patents, but they are not viewed as material 
to the Registrant's business.

Seasonal Nature of Business   

    Historically, the Registrant's sales and profits are lower in the first 
two quarters of the fiscal year and increase in the third and fourth 
quarters.  

Working Capital     

    In order to meet increased demand for its products during its fourth 
quarter, the Registrant usually builds its inventories during the third 
quarter. In common with other companies, the Registrant generally finances 
working capital items (inventory and receivables) through short-term 
borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of 
commercial paper.  Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
on pages 20 and 21 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997 
and page 40 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997, which 
pages are incorporated by reference, set forth a description of the 
Registrant's liquidity and capital resources.

Customers 

    The Registrant has a large number of customers for its products.  No 
single customer accounted for as much as 10% of consolidated net sales in 
1997.  In the same year, sales to the five largest customers represented 
approximately 20% of consolidated net sales. 




Backlog Orders 

    The dollar amount of backlog orders of the Registrant's business is not 
material to an understanding of the  Registrant's business, taken as a whole.

Government Contracts     

    No material portion of the Registrant's business is subject to 
renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the 
election of the Government.

Competition    

    The Registrant is a leader in the manufacture and sale of spices, 
seasonings and flavorings and competes in a geographic market which is global 
and highly competitive.  For further discussion, see pages 6 through 11, 35 
and 37 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997, which 
pages are incorporated by reference.

Research and Quality Control   

    The Registrant has emphasized quality and innovation in the development, 
production and packaging of its products.  Many of the Registrant's products 
are prepared from confidential formulae developed by its research 
laboratories and product development departments.  The long experience of the 
Registrant in its field contributes substantially to the quality of the 
products offered for sale. Quality specifications exist for the Registrant's 
products, and continuing quality control inspections and testing are 
performed.  Total expenditures for these and other related activities during 
fiscal years 1997, 1996 and 1995 were approximately $37,709,000, $35,705,000 
and $33,825,000 respectively.  Of these amounts, expenditures for research 
and development amounted to $16,077,000 in 1997, $12,216,000 in 1996 and 
$12,015,000 in 1995.  The amount spent on customer-sponsored research 
activities is not material.

Environmental Regulations     

    Compliance with Federal, State and local provisions related to protection 
of the environment has had no material effect on the Registrant's business.  
No material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities are 
expected to be made during this fiscal year or the next.

Employees 

    The Registrant had on average approximately 7,500 employees during fiscal 
year 1997.

Foreign Operations  

    International businesses have made significant contributions to the 
Registrant's growth and profits.  In common with other companies with foreign 
operations, the Registrant is subject in varying degrees to certain risks 
typically associated with doing business abroad, such as local economic and 
market conditions, exchange and price controls, restrictions on investment, 
royalties and dividends and exchange rate fluctuations.  




    Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 29 and 
30 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997, and pages 35 
through 39 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997 contain 
the information required by subsection (d) of Item 101 of Regulation S-K, 
which pages are incorporated by reference.

Forward-Looking Information

    For a discussion of forward-looking information, see page 41 of the 
Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997, which page is 
incorporated be reference.  
  
Item 2.  Properties 

    The location and general character of the Registrant's principal plants 
and other materially important physical properties are as follows:    

    (a) Consumer Products 

    A plant is located in Hunt Valley, Maryland on approximately 52 acres in 
the Hunt Valley Business Community.  This plant, which contains approximately 
540,000 square feet, is used for processing spices and other food products. 
There is an approximately 110,000 square foot office building located in Hunt 
Valley, Maryland which is the headquarters for the Registrant's consumer 
products division.  Also in Hunt Valley, Maryland is a facility of 
approximately 100,000 square feet which contains the Registrant's printing 
operations and a warehouse.  All of these facilities are owned in fee.  A 
plant of approximately 370,000 square feet and a distribution center of 
approximately 325,000 square feet are located in Salinas, California and a 
plant of approximately 108,000 square feet is located in Commerce, 
California.  Both of  the plants are owned in fee; the distribution center is 
leased. These facilities are used for milling, processing, packaging, and 
distributing spices and other food products. 

    (b) Industrial Products     

    The Registrant has two principal plants devoted to industrial flavoring 
products in the United States.  A plant of 105,000 square feet is located in 
Hunt Valley, Maryland and is owned in fee.  A plant of 102,000 square feet is 
located in Irving, Texas and is owned in fee.  

    (c) Spice Milling 

    Located adjacent to the consumer products plant in Hunt Valley is a spice 
milling and cleaning plant which is owned in fee by the Registrant and 
contains approximately 185,000 square feet.  This plant services all food 
product groups of the Registrant.  Much of the milling and grinding of raw 
materials for the Registrant's seasoning products is done in this facility. 





    (d)  Packaging Products     

    The Registrant has three principal plants which are devoted to the 
production of plastic products.  A plant of approximately 275,000 square feet 
is located in Anaheim, California and a plant of approximately 221,000 square 
feet is located in Easthampton, Massachusetts.  Both of these facilities are 
owned in fee.  A plant of approximately 203,000 square feet is located in 
Cranbury, New Jersey and is leased.  

    (e)  International     

    The Registrant has a plant in London, Ontario which is devoted to the 
processing, packaging and distribution of food products.  This facility is 
approximately 140,000 square feet and is owned in fee.  The Registrant has a 
251,000 square foot facility in Buckinghamshire, England which contains the 
Registrant's European headquarters and manufacturing plant for dry products.  
 

    (f)  Research and Development    

    The Registrant has a facility in Hunt Valley, Maryland which houses the 
research and development laboratories and the technical capabilities of the 
Registrant.  The facility is approximately 110,000 square feet and is owned 
in fee.

    (g)  Distribution

    The Registrant has a distribution center in Belcamp, Maryland.  The 
leased 369,000 square foot facility handles the distribution of consumer, 
foodservice and industrial products in the eastern United States.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings    

    There are no material pending legal proceedings to which the Registrant 
or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of their property is 
subject. 

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders     

    No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of Registrant's fiscal 
year 1997 to a vote of security holders.

                                      PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 

     The Registrant has disclosed at pages 40 and 41 of its Annual Report to 
Stockholders for 1997, which pages are incorporated by reference, the 
information relating to the market, market quotations, and dividends paid on 
Registrant's common stocks required by this Item.   




    The approximate number of holders of common stock of the Registrant based 
on record ownership as of January 30, 1998 was as follows:       



Item 6.  Selected Financial Data 

    The Registrant has disclosed the information required by this Item in the 
line items for 1993 through 1997 entitled "Net sales," "Net income-continuing 
operations," "Earnings per share - continuing operations," "Common dividends 
declared," "Long-term debt" and "Total assets" on page 12 of its Annual 
Report to Stockholders for 1997, which page is incorporated by reference.  

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
         Results of Operations   

    The Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997 at pages 35 
through 41 contains a discussion and analysis of the Registrant's financial 
condition and results of operations for the three fiscal years ended November 
30, 1997. Said pages are incorporated by reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Material Risk

    As the Registrant's market capitalization was less than $2.5 billion at 
January 28, 1997, the Registrant is not required to comply with the 
disclosure provisions of Item 305 of Regulation S-K.  

    Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at pages 18 and 
19 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997 contains the 
accounting policy information required by Rule 4-08(n) of Regulation S-X.   
Said Note is incorporated by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

    The financial statements and supplementary data for McCormick & Company, 
Incorporated are included on pages 13 through 33 of the Registrant's Annual 
Report to Stockholders for 1997, which pages are incorporated by reference. 
The report of independent auditors from Ernst & Young LLP on such financial 
statements is included on page 34 of the Registrant's Annual Report to 
Stockholders for 1997, which page is incorporated by reference.  The 
supplemental schedule for 1995, 1996 and 1997 is included on page 16 of this 
Report on Form 10-K.      

    The unaudited quarterly data required by Item 302 of Regulation S-K is 
included in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at 
pages 32 and 33 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1997, 
which Note is incorporated by reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
         Financial Disclosure

         No response is required to this item.




                                      PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant     

    The Registrant has filed with the Commission a definitive copy of its 
Proxy Statement dated February 18, 1998, which sets forth the information 
required by this Item at pages 3 through 7 which pages are incorporated by 
reference. In addition to the executive officers and directors discussed in 
the Proxy Statement, J. Allan Anderson, Christopher J. Kurtzman, Robert C. 
Singer and Robert W. Skelton are also executive officers of the Registrant.   

    Mr. Anderson is 51 years old and has had the following work experience 
during the last five years: 1/92 to present - Vice President and Controller.  
   

    Mr. Kurtzman is 45 years old and has had the following work experience 
during the last five years: 2/96 to present - Vice President and Treasurer; 
5/94 to 2/96 - Assistant Treasurer-Domestic; 9/90 to 5/94 - Assistant 
Treasurer-Investor Relations & Financial Services. 

    Mr. Singer is 42 years old and has had the following work experience 
during the last five years:  3/96 to present - Vice President - Acquisitions 
and Financial Planning; 5/94 to 3/96 - Vice President of Finance - McCormick 
Flavor Division; 12/91 to 5/95 - Vice President of Finance - International 
Group.

    Mr. Skelton is 50 years old and has had the following work experience 
during the last five years:  6/97 to present - Vice President, General 
Counsel and Secretary; 4/96 to 6/97 - Vice President and General Counsel; 
1/84 to 4/96 -Assistant Secretary and Associate General Counsel. 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation   

    The Registrant has filed with the Commission a definitive copy of its 
Proxy Statement dated February 18, 1998, which sets forth the information 
required by this Item at pages 7 through 17 which pages are incorporated by 
reference.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   

    The Registrant has filed with the Commission a definitive copy of its 
Proxy Statement dated February 18, 1998, which sets forth the information 
required by this Item at pages 2 through 6 which pages are incorporated by 
reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions    

    The Registrant has filed with the Commission a definitive copy of its 
Proxy Statement dated February 18, 1998, which sets forth the information 
required by this Item at page 7, which page is incorporated by reference.




                                      PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K     

          (a)  The following documents are filed as a part of this Form:      

               1. The consolidated financial statements for McCormick & Company,
                  Incorporated and subsidiaries which are listed in the Table of
                  Contents appearing on page 15 below.

               2. The financial statement schedules required by Item 8 of this
                  Form which are listed in the Table of Contents appearing on 
                  page 15 below.      
          
               3. The exhibits which are filed as a part of this Form and
                  required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are listed on the
                  accompanying Exhibit Index at pages 17 and 18 of this Report.
          
          (b)  The Registrant filed no reports during the last quarter of its
               fiscal year 1997 on Form 8-K.





                                     SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report on Form 10-K 
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

McCORMICK & COMPANY,  INCORPORATED 



    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Principal Executive Officer:






                                     SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons, being a majority of the Board of
Directors of McCormick & Company, Incorporated, on the date indicated:

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:                 DATE:

/s/ James S. Cook                       February 16, 1998
James S. Cook

/s/ Robert G. Davey                     February 16, 1998
Robert G. Davey

/s/ Freeman A. Hrabowski, III           February 16, 1998
Freeman A. Hrabowski, III                         

/s/ Robert J. Lawless                   February 16, 1998
Robert J. Lawless

/s/ Charles P. McCormick, Jr.           February 16, 1998
Charles P. McCormick, Jr.

/s/ George V. McGowan                   February 16, 1998
George V. McGowan

/s/ Carroll D. Nordhoff                 February 16, 1998
Carroll D. Nordhoff

/s/ Robert W. Schroeder                 February 16, 1998
Robert W. Schroeder                          
 
/s/ William E. Stevens                  February 16, 1998
William E. Stevens

/s/ Karen D. Weatherholtz               February 16, 1998
Karen D. Weatherholtz






                               CROSS REFERENCE SHEET








                         McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED

                     TABLE OF CONTENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION

Included in the Registrant's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders, the following
consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in Item 8*:

          Consolidated Balance Sheet, November 30, 1997 and 1996
          Consolidated Income Statement for the Years Ended November 30, 1997,
            1996 and 1995
          Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the Years Ended
            November 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995
          Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the Years Ended November 30,
            1997, 1996 and 1995
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, November 30, 1997
          Report of Independent Auditors

Included in Part IV of This Annual Report:   

          Supplemental Financial Schedules:   
          II  -  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts             

Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because of the absence of
the conditions under which they are required or because the information called
for is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

          *  Pursuant to Rule 12b-23 issued by the Commission under the 
             Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, a copy of the 1997 
             Annual Report to Stockholders of the Registrant for its fiscal 
             year ended November 30, 1997 accompanies this Annual Report on 
             Form 10-K.






                           Supplemental Financial Schedules




                                   SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL SCHEDULE II
                                                CONSOLIDATED            


                          McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED

                          VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS






- -------------------
Note:

  (1)  Accounts written off net of recoveries.











  



                                    Exhibit Index

Item 601



(10)      Material Contracts.

          i)  Registrant's supplemental pension plan for certain senior
              officers is described in the McCormick  Supplemental Executive 
              Retirement Plan, a copy of which was attached as Exhibit 10.1 
              to the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year 
              1992 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
              February 17, 1993, which report is incorporated by reference.  

          ii) Stock option plans, in which directors, officers and certain 
              other management employees participate, are described in 
              Registrant's S-8 Registration Statements Nos. 33-33725 and 
              33-23727 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
              on March  2, 1990 and March 23, 1997 respectively, which 
              statements are incorporated by reference.




          
        iii) Asset Purchase Agreement among the Registrant, Gilroy Foods, 
             Inc. and ConAgra, Inc. dated  August 28, 1996 which agreement 
             is incorporated by reference from Registrant's Report on Form 
             8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
             September 13, 1996. 

         iv) Asset Purchase Agreement among the Registrant, Gilroy Energy 
             Company, Inc. and Calpine Gilroy Cogen, L.P., dated August 28, 
             1996 which agreement is incorporated by reference from 
             Registrant's Report on Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and 
             Exchange Commission on September 13, 1996.
          
          v) Consulting letter agreement between Registrant and Charles P. 
             McCormick, Jr. dated January 2, 1997, which letter is 
             incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form 10-Q as filed 
             with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 11, 1997.  

(11) Statement re computation of per-        Page 19 of this Report on 
     share earnings.                         Form 10-K. 

(12) Statements re computation of ratios.    Pages 40-41 of Exhibit 13.  

(13) Annual Report to Security Holders 

     McCormick & Company, Incorporated       Submitted in electronic format.
     Annual Report to Stockholders 
     for 1997.       

(16) Letter re change in certifying          Not applicable.      
     accountant.

(18) Letter re change in accounting          Not applicable.      
     principles.

(21) Subsidiaries of the Registrant          Page 43 of Exhibit 13. 

(22) Published report regarding matters      Not applicable. 
     submitted to vote of securities 
     holders.

(23) Consent of independent auditors         Page 20 of this Report on
                                             Form 10-K.  

(24) Power of attorney                       Not applicable.

(27) Financial Data Schedule                 Submitted in electronic format 
                                             only.
 
(99) Additional exhibits                     Registrant's definitive Proxy 
                                             Statement dated February 18, 1998.




