
10-K
FORM 10-K


                            FORM 10-K
               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
               THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended November 30, 1993 

Commission file number 0-748

                McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)      

Maryland                                     52-0408290     
(State or other jurisdiction of    (I.R.S. Employer Identification
incorporation or organization)      No.)

18 Loveton Circle   
Sparks, Maryland                             21152     
(Address of principal executive offices)     (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (410) 771-7301

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each class                Name of each exchange on which
                                     registered   

Not Applicable                          Not Applicable

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

Common Stock, No Par Value    Common Stock Non-Voting, 
                                   No Par Value   
(Title of Class)                   (Title of Class)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.  Yes  X       No

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K    [ X ]

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable
date.

     Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant                       $202,359,567

The aggregate market value indicated above was calculated as
follows: The number of shares of voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of the registrant as of January 31, 1994 was 8,894,926. This number
excludes shares held by the McCormick Profit Sharing Plan and
PAYSOP and its Trustees, the McCormick Pension Plan and its
Trustees, and the directors and officers of the registrant, who may
or may not be affiliates. This number was then multiplied by the
closing price of the stock as of January 31, 1994, $22.75.  

CLASS                              NUMBER OF SHARES    DATE
                                     OUTSTANDING  

Common Stock                         13,530,457        1/31/94   
Common Stock Non-Voting              67,602,346        1/31/94

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE     

DOCUMENT                                     PART OF FORM 10-K INTO
                                              WHICH INCORPORATED 
Registrant's 1993 Annual Report 
to Stockholders                         Part I, Part II, Part IV 
Registrant's Proxy Statement 
dated 2/16/94                           Part III, Part IV


                             PART I     

As used herein, the Registrant means McCormick & Company,
Incorporated and its subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise
requires.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS    

     The Registrant, a diversified specialty food company, is
principally engaged in the manufacture of spices, seasonings,
flavorings and other specialty food products and sells such
products to the retail food market, the foodservice market and to
industrial food processors throughout the world.  The Registrant
also, through subsidiary corporations, manufactures and markets
plastic packaging products for the food, cosmetic and health care
industries.    

     The Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1993, which
is enclosed as Exhibit 13, contains a description of the general
development, during the last fiscal year, of the business of the
Registrant, which was formed in 1915 under Maryland law as the
successor to a business established in 1889.  Pages 7 through 20 of
that Report are incorporated by reference.  The Registrant's net
sales increased 5.8% in 1993 to $1,556,566 due to both sales price
and volume changes. 

     The Registrant operates in one business segment and has
disclosed in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements on page 33 of its Annual Report to Stockholders for
1993, which Note is incorporated by reference, the financial
information about the business segment required by this Item.

                     SPECIALTY FOOD BUSINESS 

     The Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1993 sets
forth a description of the business conducted by the Registrant on
pages 7 through 9.  Those pages of the Registrant's Annual Report
are incorporated by reference.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS/MARKETING  

     Spices, seasonings, flavorings, and other specialty food
products are the Registrant's principal products.  Spices,
seasonings, flavorings, and other specialty food products accounted
for approximately 90% of net sales on a consolidated basis during
the three fiscal years ended November 30, 1993.  No other product
or class of similar products or services contributed as much as 10%
to consolidated net sales during the last three fiscal years.  The
Registrant's efforts will continue to be directed primarily in the
area of spices, seasonings, flavorings, and other specialty food
products. The Registrant markets its consumer and foodservice
products through its own sales organization, food brokers and
distributors. In the industrial market, sales are made mostly
through the Registrant's own sales force.

PRODUCTS/INDUSTRY SEGMENTS    

     The Registrant has not announced or made public information
about a new product or industry segment that would require the
investment of a material amount of the assets of the Registrant or
that otherwise is material.

RAW MATERIALS  

     Many of the spices and herbs purchased by the Registrant are
imported into the United States from the country of origin,
although substantial quantities of particular materials, such as
paprika, dehydrated vegetables, onion and garlic, and substantially
all of the specialty food ingredients other than spices and herbs,
originate in the United States. Some of the imported materials are
purchased from dealers in the United States.  The Registrant is a
direct importer of certain raw materials, mainly black pepper,
vanilla beans, cinnamon, herbs and seeds from the countries of
origin.  The principal purpose of such purchases is to satisfy the
Registrant's own needs.  The Registrant also sells imported raw
materials to other food processors.          

     The raw materials most important to the Registrant are onion,
garlic and capsicums (paprika and chili peppers), which are
produced in the United States, black pepper, most of which
originates in India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Brazil, and vanilla
beans, a large proportion of which the Registrant obtains from the
Malagasy Republic and Indonesia.

TRADEMARKS, LICENSES AND PATENTS   

     The Registrant owns a number of registered trademarks, which
in the aggregate may be material to the Registrant's business.
However, the loss of any one of those trademarks, with the
exception of the Registrant's McCormick and Schilling trademarks,
would not have a material adverse impact on the Registrant's
business.  The McCormick and Schilling trademarks are extensively
used by the Registrant in connection with the sale of a substantial
number of the Registrant's products in the United States.  The
McCormick and Schilling trademarks are registered and used in
various foreign countries as well.  The terms of the trademark
registrations are as prescribed by law and the registrations will
be renewed for as long as the Registrant deems them to be
useful.   

     The Registrant has entered into a number of license agreements
authorizing the use of its trademarks by persons in foreign
countries.  In the aggregate, the loss of those license agreements
would not have a material adverse impact on the Registrant's
business.  The terms of the license agreements are generally 3 to
5 years or until such time as either party terminates the
agreement.  Those agreements with specific terms are renewable upon
agreement of the parties.     

     The Registrant owns various patents, but they are not viewed
as material to the Registrant's business.

SEASONAL NATURE OF BUSINESS   

     Historically, the Registrant's sales and profits are lower in
the first two quarters of the fiscal year and increase in the third
and fourth quarters.  

WORKING CAPITAL     

     In order to meet increased demand for its products during its
fourth quarter, the Registrant usually builds its inventories
during the second and third quarters.  In common with other
companies, the Registrant generally finances working capital items
(inventory and receivables) through short-term borrowings, which
include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial
paper.

CUSTOMERS 

     The Registrant has a large number of customers for its
products.  No single customer accounted for as much as 10% of
consolidated net sales in 1993.  In the same year, sales to the
five largest customers represented approximately 20% of
consolidated net sales.

BACKLOG ORDERS 

     The dollar amount of backlog orders of the Registrant's
specialty food business is not material to an understanding of the
Registrant's business, taken as a whole.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS     

     No material portion of the Registrant's business is subject to
renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or
subcontracts at the election of the government.

COMPETITION    

     Although the Registrant is a leader in sales of certain spices
and seasoning and flavoring products, and is the largest producer
and distributor of dehydrated onions and garlic in the United
States, its business is highly competitive.  For further
discussion, see pages 12 and 14 of the Registrant's Annual Report
to Stockholders for 1993, which pages are incorporated by
reference.

RESEARCH AND QUALITY CONTROL  

     The Registrant has emphasized quality and innovation in the
development, production and packaging of its products.  Many of the
Registrant's products are prepared from confidential formulae
developed by its research laboratories and product development
departments.  The long experience of the Registrant in its field
contributes substantially to the quality of the products offered
for sale.  Quality specifications exist for the Registrant's
products, and continuing quality control inspections and testing
are performed.  Total expenditures for these and other related
activities during fiscal years 1993, 1992 and 1991 were
approximately $38,226,000, $35,968,000 and $33,052,000,
respectively.  Of these amounts, expenditures for research and
development amounted to $12,259,000 in 1993, $11,844,000 in 1992
and $11,438,000 in l991.  The amount spent on customer-sponsored
research activities is not material.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS     

     Compliance with Federal, State and local provisions related to
protection of the environment has had no material effect on the
Registrant's business.  No material capital expenditures for
environmental control facilities are expected to be made during
this fiscal year or the next.

EMPLOYEES 

     The Registrant had on average approximately 8,600 employees
during fiscal year 1993. 


FOREIGN OPERATIONS  

     International businesses have made significant contributions
to the Registrant's growth and profits.  In common with other
companies with foreign operations, the Registrant is subject in
varying degrees to certain risks typically associated with doing
business abroad, such as local economic and market conditions,
exchange and price controls, restrictions on investment, royalties
and dividends and exchange rate fluctuations.     

     Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 33 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1993
contains the information required by subsection (d) of Item 101 of
Regulation S-K, which Note is incorporated by reference.

PACKAGING OPERATIONS     

     The Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1993 sets
forth a description of the Registrant's packaging group on page 9,
which page is incorporated by reference.  Setco, Inc. and Tubed
Products, Inc., which comprise Registrant's packaging group, are
wholly owned subsidiaries of the Registrant and are, respectively,
manufacturers of plastic bottles and plastic squeeze tubes. 

     Substantially all of the raw materials used in the packaging
business originate in the United States.  The market for plastic
packaging is highly competitive.  The Registrant is the largest
single customer of the packaging group. All intracompany sales have
been eliminated from the Registrant's consolidated financial
statements.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES 

     The location and general character of the Registrant's
principal plants and other materially important physical properties
are as follows:     

     (a) CONSUMER PRODUCTS    

     A plant is located in Hunt Valley, Maryland on approximately
52 acres in the Hunt Valley Business Community.  This plant
contains approximately 540,000 square feet and is owned in fee.  A
plant of approximately 475,000 square feet located in Salinas,
California is owned in fee and a plant of approximately 108,000
square feet located in Commerce, California is leased. These plants
are used for processing, packaging and distributing spices and
other food products.              

     (b) INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS       

          (i)  A plant complex is located in Gilroy, California
consisting of connected and adjacent buildings owned in fee and
providing approximately 894,000 square feet of space for milling,
dehydrating, packaging, warehousing and distributing onion, garlic
and capsicums.  Adjacent to this plant complex is a 4.3 acre
cogeneration facility which supplies steam to the dehydration
business as well as electricity to Pacific Gas & Electric Company. 
The cogeneration facility was financed with an installment note
secured by the property and equipment. This note is non-recourse to
the Registrant.          

          (ii) The Registrant has two principal plants devoted to
industrial flavoring products in the United States.  A plant of
102,000 square feet is located in Hunt Valley, Maryland and is
owned in fee. A plant of 102,400 square feet is located in Dallas,
Texas and is owned in fee.    

     (c) SPICE MILLING   

     Located adjacent to the consumer products plant in Hunt Valley
is a spice milling and cleaning plant which is owned in fee by the
Registrant and contains approximately 185,000 square feet.  This
plant services all food product groups of the Registrant.  Much of
the milling and grinding of raw materials for Registrant's
seasoning products is done in this facility. 

     (d)  PACKAGING PRODUCTS  

     The Registrant has four principal plants which are devoted to
the production of plastic containers. The facilities are located in
California, Massachusetts, New York and New Jersey, and range in
size from 178,000 to 280,000 square feet.  The plants in New York
and New Jersey are leased and part of the Massachusetts facility
was financed through an industrial revenue bond which is still
outstanding.   

     (e)  INTERNATIONAL  

     The Registrant has a plant in London, Ontario which is devoted
to the processing, packaging an distribution of food products. This
facility is approximately 145,000 square feet and is owned in fee.
     

     (f) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT       

     The Registrant has a facility in Hunt Valley, Maryland which
houses the corporate research  and  development laboratories and
the technical capabilities of the industrial division. The facility
is approximately 200,000 square feet and is owned in fee.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    

     There are no material pending legal proceedings to which the
Registrant or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of
their property is subject.  

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS     

     No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of
Registrant's fiscal year 1993 to a vote of security holders.

                             PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 

     The Registrant has disclosed at page 19 of its Annual Report
to Stockholders for 1993, which page is incorporated by reference,
the information relating to the market, market quotations, and
dividends paid on Registrant's common stocks required by this
Item.     

     The approximate number of holders of common stock of the
Registrant based on record ownership as of January 31, 1994 was as
follows:                                                         
                                   Approximate Number             
  Title of Class                   of Record Holders              

  Common Stock, no par value            2,075                     
  Common Stock Non-Voting,             10,892    
    no par value

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   

     The Registrant has disclosed the information required by this
Item in the Historical Financial Summary of its Annual Report to
Stockholders for 1993 at page 20, which page is incorporated by
reference.  

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
           CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

     The Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for 1993 at
pages 11 through 19 contains a discussion and analysis of the
Company's financial condition and results of operations for the
three fiscal years ended November 30, 1993.  Said pages are
incorporated by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   

     The financial statements and supplementary data for McCormick
& Company, Incorporated are included on pages 21 through 34 of the
Annual Report to Stockholders for 1993, which pages are
incorporated by reference.  The report of independent auditors from
Ernst & Young on such financial statements is included on page 35
of the Annual Report to Stockholders for 1993; supplemental
schedules for 1991, 1992 and 1993 are included on pages 14 through
19 of this Report on Form 10-K.    

     The unaudited quarterly data required by Item 302 of
Regulation S-K is included in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements at page 34 of the Registrant's Annual Report
to Stockholders for 1993, which Note is incorporated  by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
           ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     No response is required to this item.

                            PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT     

     The Registrant has filed with the Commission a definitive copy
of its Proxy Statement dated February 16, 1994, which sets forth
the information required by this Item at pages 3 through 9, which
pages are incorporated by reference. In addition to the executive
officers and directors discussed in the Proxy Statement, J. Allan
Anderson and Donald A. Palumbo are also executive officers of the
Registrant.    

     Mr. Anderson is 47 years old and has had the following work
experience during the last five years: 1/92 to present - Vice
President and Controller; 3/91 to 1/92 - President and Chairman of
the Board - Golden West Foods, Inc. (a subsidiary of the Company);
4/89 to 3/91 - Vice President - Food Service & Industrial
Groups.   

     Mr. Palumbo is 51 years old and has been the Company's Vice
President and Treasurer since January 1988.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   

     The Registrant has filed with the Commission a definitive copy
of its Proxy Statement dated February 16, 1994, which sets forth
the information required by this Item at pages 9 through 17, which
pages are incorporated by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
            MANAGEMENT   

     The Registrant has filed with the Commission a definitive copy
of its Proxy Statement dated February 16, 1994 which sets forth the
information required by this Item at pages 4 through 7, which pages
are incorporated by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS          

     The Registrant has filed with the Commission a definitive copy
of its Proxy Statement dated February 16, 1994 which sets forth the
information required by this Item at page 7, which page is
incorporated by reference.

                             PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON 
            FORM 8-K     

     (a)  The following documents are filed as a part of this
Form:          

          1.   The consolidated financial statements for McCormick
               & Company, Incorporated and subsidiaries which are
               listed in the Table of Contents appearing on page
               13 below.      

          2.   The financial statement schedules required by Item
               8 of this Form which are listed in the Table of
               Contents appearing on page 13 below.         

          3.   The exhibits which are filed as a part of this Form
               and required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K are
               listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index at pages
               20 and 21 of this Report.          

     (b)  The Registrant filed two reports during the last quarter
on Form 8-K dated September 9, 1993 and November 18, 1993
respectively, both of which reported the issuance of a press
release.

                           SIGNATURES   

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

McCORMICK & COMPANY,  INCORPORATED


By:  /s/ Bailey A. Thomas                                        
         Bailey A. Thomas  
         Chairman of the Board & 
         Chief Executive Officer        February 21, 1994   

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

/s/ Bailey A. Thomas  Chairman of the Board &     
    Bailey A. Thomas  Chief Executive Officer     February 21,1994

PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

/s/ James A. Hooker  Vice President &        
    James A. Hooker  Chief Financial 
                       Officer                    February 21, 1994

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

/s/ J. Allan Anderson  Vice President &      
    J. Allan Anderson  Controller                 February 21, 1994


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons,
being a majority of the Board of Directors of McCormick & Company,
Incorporated, on the date indicated:

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:                           DATE:

/s/ James J. Albrecht                             February 21, 1994
    James J. Albrecht

/s/ H. Eugene Blattman                            February 21, 1994
    H. Eugene Blattman

/s/ James S. Cook                                 February 21, 1994
    James S. Cook

/s/ Harold J. Handley                             February 21, 1994
    Harold J. Handley

/s/ James A. Hooker                               February 21, 1994 
    James A. Hooker

/s/ George W. Koch                                February 21, 1994 
    George W. Koch

/s/ Charles P. McCormick, Jr.                     February 21, 1994
    Charles P. McCormick, Jr.

/s/ George V. McGowan                             February 21, 1994
    George V. McGowan

/s/ Carroll D. Nordhoff                           February 21, 1994
    Carroll D. Nordhoff

/s/ Richard W. Single, Sr.                        February 21, 1994
    Richard W. Single, Sr.

/s/ William E. Stevens                            February 21, 1994
    William E. Stevens

/s/ Bailey A. Thomas                              February 21, 1994
    Bailey A. Thomas

/s/ Karen D. Weatherholtz                         February 21, 1994
    Karen D. Weatherholtz



                      CROSS REFERENCE SHEET


PART      ITEM                          REFERENCED MATERIAL/PAGE(S)

PART I    Item 1.   Business            Registrant's 1993 Annual
                                        Report to Stockholders/
                                        Pages 7-20 and 33.  

          Item 2.   Properties          None.          

          Item 3.   Legal               None.     
                    Proceedings

          Item 4.   Submission of       None.
                    Matters to a 
                    Vote of Security
                    Holders.

PART II   Item 5.   Market for the      Registrant's 1993 Annual
                    Registrant's        Report to Stockholders/
                    Common Equity       Page 19.             
                    and Related
                    Stockholder Matters.          

          Item 6.   Selected Financial  Registrant's 1993
                    Data.               Annual Report to
                                        Stockholders/Page 20.    

          Item 7.   Management's        Registrant's 1993 Annual
                    Discussion and      Report to Stockholders/
                    Analysis of         Pages 11-19.   
                    Financial Condition
                    and Results of
                    Operations.         

          Item 8.   Financial           Registrant's 1993 Annual
                    Statements and      Report to Stockholders/
                    Supplementary       Pages 21-35 and Pages   
                    Data.               14-19 of this Report.    
                                                                 
Item 9.             Changes in and      None.                    
                    Disagreements with            
                    Accountants on
                    Accounting and
                    Financial Disclosure.

PART III  Item 10.  Directors and       Registrant's Proxy       
                    Executive Officers  Statement dated February
                    of the Registrant.  16, 1994/Pages 3-9.      

          Item 11.  Executive           Registrant's Proxy
                    Compensation.       Statement dated February
                                        16, 1994/Pages 9-17.

          Item 12.  Security Ownership  Registrant's Proxy
                    of Certain          Statement dated
                    Beneficial          February 16, 1994/Pages  
                    Owners and          4-7.      
                    Management.

          Item 13.  Certain             Registrant's Proxy
                    Relationships       Statement and Related
                    Transactions.       dated February 16, 1994/
                                        Page 7.        

PART IV   Item 14.  Exhibits,           See Exhibit Index pages 20
                    Financial           and 21 and the Table of 
                    Statement           Contents at page 13 of this
                    Schedules and       Report.        
                    Reports on 
                    Form 8-K.


                McCORMICK & COMPANY, INCORPORATED

                                             AND RELATED INFORMATION


Included in the Company's 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders, the
following consolidated financial statements are incorporated by
reference in Item 8*:

     Consolidated Balance Sheets, November 30, 1993 and 1992
     Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended 
       November 30, 1993, 1992 and 1991
     Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the Years
       Ended November 30, 1993, 1992 and 1991
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended    
       November 30, 1993, 1992 and 1991
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, November 30, 1993
     Report of Independent Auditors

Included in Part IV of This Annual Report:

Supplemental Financial Schedules:        
 
  II  -   Amounts Receivable From Related Parties and Underwriters,
            Promoters, and Employees Other Than Related Parties   

  V  -    Property, Plant and Equipment        

 VI  -    Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of Property,
            Plant and Equipment      

VIII  -   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        

  IX  -   Short-Term Borrowings         

   X  -   Supplementary Income Statement Information

Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because of the
absence of the conditions under which they are required or because
the information called for is included in the consolidated
financial statements or notes thereto.


               *Pursuant to Rule 12b-23 issued by the Commission
               under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
               amended, a copy of the 1993 Annual Report to
               Stockholders of the Registrant for its fiscal year
               ended November 30, 1993 accompanies this Annual
               Report Form 10-K.





















                          EXHIBIT INDEX

ITEM 601
EXHIBIT NUMBER                               REFERENCE OR PAGE

(2)  Plan of acquisition, reorganization,    
     arrangement, liquidation or succession  Not applicable.     

(3)  Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws                       

     Restatement of Charter of McCormick     Incorporated by
     & Company Incorporated - Restated and   reference from
     Amended  as of September 21, 1987.      Registrant's Report on
                                             Form 10-K for the
                                             fiscal year of 1990 
                                             as filed with the
                                             Securities and
                                             Exchange Commission on
                                             February 18, 1991.  

     By-laws of McCormick & Company          Incorporated by
     Incorporated - Restated and Amended     reference from
     as of September 21, 1987.               Registrant's        
                                             Report on Form 10-K
                                             for the fiscal year of
                                             1989 as filed with the
                                             Securities and
                                             Exchange Commission on
                                             February 20, 1990.

(4) Instruments defining the rights of       With respect to rights
     security holders, including             of holders of equity
     indentures                              securities, see
                                             Exhibit 3 (Restatement
                                             of Charter).  No
                                             instrument of
                                             Registrant with
                                             respect to long-term
                                             debt involves an
                                             amount of authorized
                                             securities which
                                             exceeds 10 percent  
                                             of the total assets of
                                             the Registrant and its
                                             subsidiaries on a
                                             consolidated basis. 
                                             Registrant agrees to
                                             furnish a copy of any
                                             such instrument upon
                                             request of the
                                             Commission.  

(9)  Voting trust agreement                  Not applicable.

(10) Material contracts                      Registrant's
                                             supplemental pension
                                             plan for certain
                                             senior officers is
                                             described in the
                                             McCormick Supplemental
                                             Executive Retirement
                                             Plan, a copy of which
                                             was attached as
                                             Exhibit 10.1 to the 
                                             Registrant's Report on
                                             Form 10-K for the
                                             fiscal year 1992 as
                                             filed with the
                                             Securities and
                                             Exchange Commission on
                                             February 17, 1993,
                                             which report is
                                             incorporated by
                                             reference. Stock
                                             option plans, in which
                                             directors, officers
                                             and certain other
                                             management employees
                                             participate, are    
                                             described in the
                                             Registrant's S-8
                                             Registration
                                             Statements Nos.     
                                             2-96166, 33-33725 and
                                             33-39582 filed with
                                             the Securities and
                                             Exchange Commission on
                                             March 1, 1985, March
                                             2, 1990 and March 25,
                                             1991, respectively,
                                             which statements are
                                             incorporated by
                                             reference.

(11) Statement re computation of per-        Page 22 of this Report
     share earnings                          on Form 10-K.

(12) Statements re computation of ratios     Pages 14-18 of Exhibit
                                             13.

(13) Annual Report to Security Holders  

     McCormick & Company, Incorporated       Bound separately with
     Annual Report to Stockholders for       separately numbered  
     1993.                                   pages.

(16) Letter re change in certifying          Not applicable.     
     accountant

(18) Letter re change in accounting          Not applicable.      
     principles

(21) Subsidiaries of the Registrant          Page 38 of Exhibit 
                                             13.

(22) Published report regarding matters      Not applicable.     
     submitted to vote of securities holders 

(23) Consent of independent auditors         Page 23 of this Report 
                                             on Form 10-K.  

(24) Power of attorney                       Not applicable.

(27) Financial Data Schedule                 Not applicable.

(28) Information from reports furnished      Not applicable.     
     to state insurance regulatory authorities

(99) Additional exhibits                     Registrant's
                                             definitive Proxy
                                             Statement dated     
                                             February 16, l994.  

                                             Information furnished
                                             pursuant to Rule
                                             15d-21 on Form 10-K/A,
                                             to be filed not later
                                             than May 28, l994.  



