
10-K405
y58045e10-k405.txt
THE MCGRAW-HILL COMPANIES, INC.


                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K


                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001

                          Commission File Number 1-1023

                         THE McGRAW-HILL COMPANIES, INC.
           ----------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          NEW YORK                                               13-1026995
- -------------------------------                              -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

1221 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y.                      10020
- -------------------------------------------                  --------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code           (212) 512-2000

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                         Name of each exchange
    Title of each class                                  on which registered
    -------------------                                  -----------------------
Common stock - $1 par value                              New York Stock Exchange
                                                         Pacific Stock Exchange

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                                ----------------
                                (Title of class)

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X   No
                                              ---     ---

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definite proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  X
           ---

         The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of February 15, 2002, was $ 12,169,417,580.

         The number of shares of common stock of the registrant outstanding as
of February 15, 2002 was 193,421,321 shares.

         Part I, Part II and Part IV incorporate information by reference from
the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2001. Part III
incorporates information by reference from the definitive proxy statement mailed
to shareholders March 25, 2002 for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
on April 24, 2002.

                                                                -----------------
                                     PART I
                                   -----------



                                     PART I


Item 1.  Business

The Registrant, incorporated in December 1925, serves business, professional and
educational markets around the world with information products and services. Key
markets include finance, business, education, construction, medical and health,
aerospace and defense. As a multimedia publishing and information company, the
Registrant employs a broad range of media, including books, magazines,
newsletters, software, on-line data services, CD-ROMs, facsimile and television
broadcasting. Most of the Registrant's products and services face substantial
competition from a variety of sources.

The Registrant's 17,135 employees are located worldwide. They perform the vital
functions of analyzing the nature of changing demands for information and of
channeling the resources necessary to fill those demands. By virtue of the
numerous copyrights and licensing, trade, and other agreements, which are
essential to such a business, the Registrant is able to collect, compile, and
disseminate this information. Most book manufacturing and magazine printing is
handled through a number of independent contractors. The Registrant's principal
raw material is paper, and the Registrant has assured sources of supply, at
competitive prices, adequate for its business needs.

Descriptions of the company's principal products, broad services and markets,
and significant achievements are hereby incorporated by reference from Exhibit
(13), pages 6 through 20, containing textual material of the Registrant's 2001
Annual Report to Shareholders.

Information as to Operating Segments

The relative contribution of the operating segments of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries to operating revenue, operating profit, long-lived assets and
geographic information for the three years ended December 31, 2001 at the end of
each year, are included in Exhibit (13), on pages 44 and 45 in the Registrant's
2001 Annual Report to Shareholders and is hereby incorporated by reference.



Item 2.  Properties


The Registrant leases office facilities at 335 locations: 263 are in the United
States. In addition, the Registrant owns real property at 14 locations: 11 are
in the United States. The principal facilities of the Registrant are as follows:







During the first quarter of 2001, we sold the owned facility at 29 Hartwell Ave
in Lexington, Massachusetts.

In July 2001, we leased an additional floor at 2 Penn Plaza, totaling 58,770
square feet. The lease will be through the period ending March 31, 2020.

During the third quarter of 2001, we sold the owned facility at Western Avenue
in Chicago, Illinois.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, we bought the formerly leased TV station
facility in Indianapolis, Indiana.



Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

         In Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001,
         Registrant reported that a summons was served on June 20, 2001 in an
         action brought by L'Association Francaise des Porteurs d'Emprunts
         Russes (AFPER) against Standard & Poor's SA (an indirect subsidiary of
         the Registrant) in the Court of First Instance of Paris, France. In
         this suit, AFPER, a group of holders of pre-Revolutionary Russian
         bonds, makes claims against Standard & Poor's and another rating agency
         for lack of diligence and prudence in their ratings of Russia and
         Russian debt. AFPER alleges that, by failing to take into account the
         post-Revolutionary repudiation of pre-Revolutionary Czarist debt by the
         Soviet government in rating Russia and new issues of Russian debt
         beginning in 1996, the rating agencies enabled the Russian Federation
         to issue new debt without repaying the old obligations of the Czarist
         government. Alleging joint and several liability, AFPER seeks damages
         of 17.85 billion francs (approximately $2.38 billion), plus 50,000
         francs (approximately $7,000) under certain provisions of the French
         Code of Civil Procedure and legal costs. The Registrant believes that
         the allegations lack legal or factual merit and intends to vigorously
         contest the action.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         No matters were submitted to a vote of Registrant's security holders
         during the last quarter of the period covered by this Report.



                        Executive Officers of Registrant



All of the above executive officers of the Registrant have been full-time
employees of the Registrant for more than five years except for Peter Watkins
and Deven Sharma.

Mr. Watkins, prior to becoming an officer of the Registrant on February 1, 2000,
was executive vice president and chief information officer for the Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce for two and one-half years. Prior to that he was with
Ernst & Young Canada for ten years.

Mr. Sharma, prior to becoming an officer of the Registrant on January 15, 2002,
was a partner at Booz Allen & Hamilton. During his fourteen years with that
firm, he led its U.S. Marketing Board and Customer Manager Initiatives.



                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
         Matters

The approximate number of holders of the Company's common stock as of February
15, 2002 was 5,122.



Information concerning other matters is incorporated herein by reference from
Exhibit (13), from page 52 & 53 of the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13), from the 2001 Annual Report
to Shareholders, page 54 and page 55.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations

Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13), from the 2001 Annual Report
to Shareholders, pages 23 to 36.

Item 7A. Market Risk

Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13), from the 2001 Annual Report
to Shareholders, page 36.

Item 8.  Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13), from the 2001 Annual Report
to Shareholders, pages 37 to 50 and pages 52 to 53.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
         Financial Disclosure

None



                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information concerning directors is incorporated herein by reference from the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement dated March 25, 2002 for the annual
meeting of shareholders to be held on April 24, 2002.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference from the Registrant's definitive proxy
statement dated March 25, 2002 for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
on April 24, 2002.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Incorporated herein by reference from the Registrant's definitive proxy
statement dated March 25, 2002 for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
April 24, 2002.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference from the Registrant's definitive proxy
statement dated March 25, 2002 for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
April 24, 2002.



                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)      1. Financial Statements.

         2. Financial Statement Schedules.

             The McGraw-Hill Companies
           Index to Financial Statements
         And Financial Statement Schedules





All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.

The financial statements listed in the above index which are included in the
Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2001 are hereby
incorporated by reference in Exhibit (13). With the exception of the pages
listed in the above index, the 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders is not to be
deemed filed as part of Item 14 (a)(1).

(a)      (3) Exhibits.

(2)      Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2000, among Tribune
         Company and Registrant, incorporated by reference from the Registrant's
         Form 8-K dated June 30, 2000.

(3)      Articles of Incorporation of Registrant incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.

(3)      By-laws of Registrant incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000.

(10)     Indenture dated as of June 15, 1990 between the Registrant, as issuer,
         and the Bank of New York, as trustee, incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Form SE filed August 3, 1990 in connection with
         Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1990.

(10)     Instrument defining the rights of security holders, certificate setting
         forth the terms of the Registrant's Medium-Term Notes, Series A,
         incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form SE filed November 15,
         1990 in connection with Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
         September 30, 1990.

(10)     Rights Agreement dated as of July 29, 1998 between Registrant and
         Mellon Investor Services, incorporated by reference from Registrant's
         Form 8A filed August 3, 1998.

(10)*    Restricted Performance Share Award dated January 2, 1997, incorporated
         by reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December
         31, 1996.

(10)     Indemnification Agreements between Registrant and each of its directors
         and certain of its executive officers relating to said directors' and
         executive officers' services to the Registrant, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 27, 1987 in connection
         with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986.


(10)*    Registrant's 1983 Stock Option Plan for Officers and Key Employees,
         incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 29,
         1990 in connection with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended
         December 31, 1989.

(10)*    Registrant's 1987 Key Employee Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1993.


(10)*    Registrant's Amended and Restated 1993 Employee Stock Incentive Plan,
         incorporated by reference from Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March
         23, 2000.



(10)*    Registrant's Amended and Restated 1996 Key Executive Short Term
         Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 23, 2000.

(10)*    Registrant's Key Executive Short-Term Incentive Deferred Compensation
         Plan incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year
         ended December 31, 1996.

(10)*    Registrant's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 28, 1991 in connection
         with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.

(10)*    Registrant's Senior Executive Severance Plan, incorporated by reference
         from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.

(10)     364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2001 among the
         Registrant, the lenders listed therein, and The Chase Manhattan Bank,
         as administrative agent, incorporated by reference from the
         Registrant's Form 8-K dated August 17, 2001.

(10)     Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 15, 2000 among the
         Registrant, the lenders listed therein, and The Chase Manhattan Bank,
         as a administrative agent, incorporated by reference from the
         Registrant's Form 8-K dated August 21, 2000.

(10)*    Registrant's Employee Retirement Account Plan Supplement, incorporated
         by reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 28, 1991 in
         connection with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1990.

(10)*    Registrant's Employee Retirement Plan Supplement, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 28, 1991 in connection
         with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.

(10)*    Registrant's Savings Incentive Plan Supplement, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 28, 1991 in connection
         with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.

(10)*    Registrant's Senior Executive Supplemental Death, Disability &
         Retirement Benefits Plan, incorporated by reference from Registrant's
         Form SE filed March 26, 1992 in connection with Registrant's Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1991.

(10)*    Registrant's 1993 Stock Payment Plan for Directors, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1993.

(10)*    Resolutions Terminating Registrant's 1993 Stock Payment Plan for
         Directors, as adopted on January 31, 1996, incorporated by reference
         from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.


(10)*    Resolutions amending certain of Registrant's equity and compensation
         plans, as adopted on February 23, 2000, with respect to definitions of
         "Cause" and "Change of Control" contained therein, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         2000.


(10)*    Registrant's Director Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Form SE filed March 29, 1990 in connection with
         Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989.



(10)*    Resolutions Freezing Existing Benefits and Terminating Additional
         Benefits under Registrant's Directors Retirement Plan, as adopted on
         January 31, 1996, incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1996.

(10)*    Registrant's Director Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1993.

(10)*    Director Deferred Stock Ownership Plan, incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1996.

(12)     Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.

(13)     Registrant's 2001 Annual Report to Shareholders. Such Report, except
         for those portions thereof which are expressly incorporated by
         reference in this Form 10-K, is furnished for the information of the
         Commission and is not deemed "filed" as part of this Form 10-K.

(21)     Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

(23)     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K.

         No report on Form 8-K was filed by the Registrant in the last quarter
         covered by this Form 10-K.


- ----------
*        These exhibits relate to management contracts or compensatory plan
         arrangements.



                                   Signatures
                                   ----------


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Registrant has duly caused this annual report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
- -------------------------------
          Registrant




By: /s/ Kenneth M. Vittor
    ------------------------------------------
    Kenneth M. Vittor
    Executive Vice President and
    General Counsel
    March 12, 2002


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed on March 12, 2002 on behalf of Registrant by the following
persons who signed in the capacities as set forth below under their respective
names. Registrant's board of directors is comprised of eleven members and the
signatures set forth below of individual board members, constitute at least a
majority of such board.




    /s/ Harold McGraw III
    ------------------------------------------
    Harold McGraw III
    Chairman, President and
    Chief Executive Officer




    /s/ Robert J. Bahash
    ------------------------------------------
    Robert J. Bahash
    Executive Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer





    /s/ Talia M. Griep
    ------------------------------------------
    Talia M. Griep
    Senior Vice President
    and Corporate Controller




    /s/ Pedro Aspe
    ------------------------------------------
    Pedro Aspe
    Director




    /s/ Sir Winfried F.W. Bischoff
    ------------------------------------------
    Sir Winfried F.W. Bischoff
    Director




    /s/ Vartan Gregorian
    ------------------------------------------
    Vartan Gregorian
    Director




    /s/ Linda Koch Lorimer
    ------------------------------------------
    Linda Koch Lorimer
    Director




    /s/ Robert P. McGraw
    ------------------------------------------
    Robert P. McGraw
    Director




    /s/ Lois Dickson Rice
    ------------------------------------------
    Lois Dickson Rice
    Director





    /s/ James H. Ross
    ------------------------------------------
    James H. Ross
    Director




    /s/ Edward B. Rust, Jr.
    ------------------------------------------
    Edward B. Rust, Jr.
    Director




    /s/ Sidney Taurel
    ------------------------------------------
    Sidney Taurel
    Director



                                                                -----------------

                        EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       ----------------------------------




