
10-K405
y46387e10-k405.txt
THE MCGRAW-HILL COMPANIES, INC



                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K


                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

                          Commission File Number 1-1023

                         THE McGRAW-HILL COMPANIES, INC.
           ----------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             NEW YORK                                     13-1026995
- -------------------------------                       -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                        Identification No.)

1221 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y.                        10020
- -------------------------------------------                    --------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code             (212) 512-2000
                                                               --------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                     Name of each exchange
   Title of each class                               on which registered
   -------------------                               ---------------------
Common stock - $1 par value                          New York Stock Exchange
                                                     Pacific Stock Exchange
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None
                                ----------------
                                (Title of class)

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X    No
                                              ---      ---

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definite proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.
                    X
                   ---

         The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of February 28, 2001, was $11,437,135,559.

         The number of shares of common stock of the registrant outstanding as
of February 28, 2001 was 194,915,339 shares.

         Part I, Part II and Part IV incorporate information by reference from
the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2000. Part III
incorporates information by reference from the definitive proxy statement mailed
to shareholders March 26, 2001 for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
on April 25, 2001.

                                                                -----------------
                                     PART I
                                   -----------


                                     PART I


Item 1.     Business

The Registrant, incorporated in December 1925, serves business, professional and
educational markets around the world with information products and services. Key
markets include finance, business, education, construction, medical and health,
aerospace and defense. As a multimedia publishing and information company, the
Registrant employs a broad range of media, including books, magazines,
newsletters, software, on-line data services, CD-ROMs, facsimile and television
broadcasting. Most of the Registrant's products and services face substantial
competition from a variety of sources.

The Registrant's 16,761 employees are located worldwide. They perform the vital
functions of analyzing the nature of changing demands for information and of
channeling the resources necessary to fill those demands. By virtue of the
numerous copyrights and licensing, trade, and other agreements, which are
essential to such a business, the Registrant is able to collect, compile, and
disseminate this information. Most book manufacturing and magazine printing is
handled through a number of independent contractors. The Registrant's principal
raw material is paper, and the Registrant has assured sources of supply, at
competitive prices, adequate for its business needs.

Descriptions of the company's principal products, broad services and markets,
and significant achievements are hereby incorporated by reference from Exhibit
(13), pages 6 through 23, containing textual material of the Registrant's 2000
Annual Report to Shareholders.

Information as to Operating Segments

The relative contribution of the operating segments of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries to operating revenue, operating profit, long-lived assets and
geographic information for the three years ended December 31, 2000 at the end of
each year, are included in Exhibit (13), on pages 46 and 47 in the Registrant's
2000 Annual Report to Shareholders and is hereby incorporated by reference.



Item 2.     Properties


The Registrant leases office facilities at 314 locations: 230 are in the United
States. In addition, the Registrant owns real property at 15 locations: 12 are
in the United States. The principal facilities of the Registrant are as follows:








During 2000, the divestiture of the Tower Group decreased the number of
facilities by 75.

The acquisition of Tribune Education during 2000 added approximately 40
facilities (1 owned).

During the first quarter of 2001, we will be selling the owned facility at 29
Hartwell Ave in Lexington Massachusetts.

Beginning July 2001, we will lease an additional floor at 2 Penn Plaza, totaling
58,770 square feet. The lease will be through the period ending March 31, 2020.



Item 3.      Legal Proceedings

             While the Registrant and its subsidiaries are defendants in
             numerous legal proceedings in the United States and abroad, neither
             the Registrant nor its subsidiaries are a party to, nor are any of
             their properties subject to, any known material pending legal
             proceedings which Registrant believes will result in a material
             adverse effect on its financial statements or business operations.


Item 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

             No matters were submitted to a vote of Registrant's security
             holders during the last quarter of the period covered by this
             Report.



                        Executive Officers of Registrant
                        --------------------------------




All of the above executive officers of the Registrant have been full-time
employees of the Registrant for more than five years except for John Negroponte
and Peter Watkins.

Mr. Negroponte, prior to his becoming an officer of the Registrant on September
2, 1997, was with the United States Diplomatic Corps for 37 years where he held
numerous senior positions, including ambassador to Mexico, the Philippines, and
Honduras.

Mr. Watkins, prior to his becoming an officer of the Registrant on February 1,
2000, was executive vice president and chief information officer for the
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce for two and one-half years. Prior to that he
was with Ernst & Young Canada for ten years.


                                     PART II


Item 5.     Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related Stockholder
            Matters

The approximate number of holders of the Company's common stock as of February
28, 2001 was 5,246.



Information concerning other matters is incorporated herein by reference from
Exhibit (13), from page 53 of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 6.     Selected Financial Data

Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13), from the 2000 Annual Report
to Shareholders, page 54 and page 55.

Item 7.     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
            Results of Operations

Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13), from the 2000 Annual Report
to Shareholders, pages 26 to 38.

Item 7A.    Market Risk

Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13), from the 2000 Annual Report
to Shareholders, page 38.

 Item 8.    Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit (13), from the 2000 Annual Report
to Shareholders, pages 39 to 51 and page 53.

Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
            Financial Disclosure

     None



                                    PART III


Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information concerning directors is incorporated herein by reference from the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement dated March 26, 2001 for the annual
meeting of shareholders to be held on April 25, 2001.


Item 11.    Executive Compensation

Incorporated herein by reference from the Registrant's definitive proxy
statement dated March 26, 2001 for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
on April 25, 2001.


Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management


Incorporated herein by reference from the Registrant's definitive proxy
statement dated March 26, 2001 for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
April 25, 2001.


Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Incorporated herein by reference from the Registrant's definitive proxy
statement dated March 26, 2001 for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held
April 25, 2001.



                                     PART IV


Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K.

 (a)     1.   Financial Statements.

      2. Financial Statement Schedules.

           The McGraw-Hill Companies
         Index to Financial Statements
       And Financial Statement Schedules





All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule, or because the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.

The financial statements listed in the above index which are included in the
Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2000 are hereby
incorporated by reference in Exhibit (13). With the exception of the pages
listed in the above index, the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders is not to be
deemed filed as part of Item 14 (a)(1).

(a)      (3) Exhibits.

(2)      Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2000, among Tribune
         Company and Registrant, incorporated by reference from the Registrant's
         Form 8-K dated June 30, 2000.

(3)      Articles of Incorporation of Registrant incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.

(3)      By-laws of Registrant incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000.

(10)     Indenture dated as of June 15, 1990 between the Registrant, as issuer,
         and the Bank of New York, as trustee, incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Form SE filed August 3, 1990 in connection with
         Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1990.

(10)     Instrument defining the rights of security holders, certificate setting
         forth the terms of the Registrant's Medium-Term Notes, Series A,
         incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form SE filed November 15,
         1990 in connection with Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
         September 30, 1990.

(10)     Rights Agreement dated as of July 29, 1998 between Registrant and
         ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C., incorporated by reference
         from Registrant's Form 8A filed August 3, 1998.

(10)*    Restricted Performance Share Award dated January 2, 1997, incorporated
         by reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December
         31, 1996.

(10)     Indemnification Agreements between Registrant and each of its directors
         and certain of its executive officers relating to said directors' and
         executive officers' services to the Registrant, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 27, 1987 in connection
         with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986.

(10)*    Registrant's 1983 Stock Option Plan for Officers and Key Employees,
         incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 29,
         1990 in connection with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended
         December 31, 1989.

(10)*    Registrant's 1987 Key Employee Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1993.

(10)*    Registrant's Amended and Restated 1993 Employee Stock Incentive Plan,
         incorporated by reference from Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March
         23, 2000.



(10)*    Registrant's Amended and Restated 1996 Key Executive Short Term
         Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 23, 2000.

(10)*    Registrant's Key Executive Short-Term Incentive Deferred Compensation
         Plan incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year
         ended December 31, 1996.

(10)*    Registrant's Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 28, 1991 in connection
         with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.

(10)*    Registrant's Senior Executive Severance Plan.

(10)     364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 15, 2000 among the
         Registrant, the lenders listed therein, and The Chase Manhattan Bank,
         as administrative agent, incorporated by reference from the
         Registrant's Form 8-K dated August 21, 2000.

(10)     Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 15, 2000 among the
         Registrant, the lenders listed therein, and The Chase Manhattan Bank,
         as a administrative agent, incorporated by reference from the
         Registrant's Form 8-K dated August 21, 2000.

(10)*    Registrant's Employee Retirement Account Plan Supplement, incorporated
         by reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 28, 1991 in
         connection with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1990.

(10)*    Registrant's Employee Retirement Plan Supplement, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 28, 1991 in connection
         with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.

(10)*    Registrant's Savings Incentive Plan Supplement, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form SE filed March 28, 1991 in connection
         with Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.

(10)*    Registrant's Senior Executive Supplemental Death, Disability &
         Retirement Benefits Plan, incorporated by reference from Registrant's
         Form SE filed March 26, 1992 in connection with Registrant's Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1991.

(10)*    Registrant's 1993 Stock Payment Plan for Directors, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1993.

(10)*    Resolutions Terminating Registrant's 1993 Stock Payment Plan for
         Directors, as adopted on January 31, 1996, incorporated by reference
         from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.

(10)*    Resolutions amending certain of Registrant's equity and compensation
         plans, as adopted on February 23, 2000, with respect to definitions of
         "Cause" and "Change of Control" contained therein.

(10)*    Registrant's Director Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Form SE filed March 29, 1990 in connection with
         Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989.



(10)*    Resolutions Freezing Existing Benefits and Terminating Additional
         Benefits under Registrant's Directors Retirement Plan, as adopted on
         January 31, 1996, incorporated by reference from Registrant's Form 10-K
         for the year ended December 31, 1996.

(10)*    Registrant's Director Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by
         reference from Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1993.

(10)*    Director Deferred Stock Ownership Plan, incorporated by reference from
         Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 21, 1996.

(12)     Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.

(13)     Registrant's 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders. Such Report, except
         for those portions thereof which are expressly incorporated by
         reference in this Form 10-K, is furnished for the information of the
         Commission and is not deemed "filed" as part of this Form 10-K.

(21)     Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

(23)     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.

(27)     Financial Data Schedule.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K.

         A report on Form 8-K was filed on October 27, 2000, and dated October
         24, 2000. Item 9, Regulation of FD Disclosure, was reported.


- ----------------
*        These exhibits relate to management contracts or compensatory plan
         arrangements.


                                   Signatures
                                   ----------


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Registrant has duly caused this annual report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
- -------------------------------
         Registrant


By:   /s/ Kenneth M. Vittor
      ------------------------------------------
      Kenneth M. Vittor
      Executive Vice President and General Counsel
      March 12, 2001


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed on March 12, 2001 on behalf of Registrant by the following
persons who signed in the capacities as set forth below under their respective
names. Registrant's board of directors is comprised of eleven members and the
signatures set forth below of individual board members, constitute at least a
majority of such board.

      /s/ Harold McGraw III
      ------------------------------------------
      Harold McGraw III
      Chairman of the Board
      President and Chief Executive Officer
      Director

      /s/ Robert J. Bahash
      ------------------------------------------
      Robert J. Bahash
      Executive Vice President and
      Chief Financial Officer



      /s/ Talia M. Griep
      ------------------------------------------
      Talia M. Griep
      Corporate Controller

      /s/ Pedro Aspe
      ------------------------------------------
      Pedro Aspe
      Director

      /s/  Sir Winfried Bischoff
      -------------------------------------------
      Sir Winfried Bischoff
      Director

      /s/ Vartan Gregorian
      -------------------------------------------
      Vartan Gregorian
      Director

      /s/ George B. Harvey
      -------------------------------------------
      George B. Harvey
      Director

      /s/ Linda Koch Lorimer
      -------------------------------------------
      Linda Koch Lorimer
      Director

     /s/ Robert P. McGraw
     --------------------------------------------
     Robert P. McGraw
     Director

     /s/ Lois Dickson Rice
     --------------------------------------------
     Lois Dickson Rice
     Director



     /s/ James H. Ross
     --------------------------------------------
     James H. Ross
     Director

     /s/ Edward B. Rust, Jr.
     --------------------------------------------
     Edward B. Rust, Jr.
     Director

     /s/ Sidney Taurel
     --------------------------------------------
     Sidney Taurel
     Director



                                                                -----------------

                        EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       ----------------------------------





