
10-K



                                  
          UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                       Washington, D.C. 20549
                                  
                              FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                 OR
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from _____________to____________

Commission File No. 1-6033

                          UAL CORPORATION
       ------------------------------------------------------
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                        36-2675207
- -------------------------------       -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of         (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)        Identification No.)

Location: 1200 East Algonquin Road, Elk Grove Township, Illinois 60007
Mailing Address: P. O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois              60666
- ---------------------------------------------------              -----
(Address of principal executive offices)                      (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (847) 700-4000
                                                   --------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                            NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
 TITLE OF EACH CLASS                        ON WHICH REGISTERED
 -------------------                        --------------------

 Common Stock, $.01 par value               New York, Chicago and
                                            Pacific Stock Exchanges

 Depositary Shares each representing
 1/1,000 of a share of Series B
 Preferred Stock, without par value         New York Stock Exchange
  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                            NONE
                            ----

   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes    X        No
                        -----         -----

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant was $4,887,954,500 as of February 28, 1998.  The number of
shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 1998 was
57,507,227.

                 Documents Incorporated by Reference

Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain
information from the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 7, 1998.


                               PART I
                               ------
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

     UAL Corporation ("UAL" or the "Company") was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968.  The world
headquarters of the Company are located at 1200 East Algonquin Road,
Elk Grove Township, Illinois  60007.  The Company's mailing address
is P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois 60666.  The telephone number for
the Company is (847) 700-4000.

     The Company is a holding company and its principal subsidiary is
United Air Lines, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("United"), which is
wholly owned.  United accounted for virtually all of the Company's
revenues and expenses in 1997.  United is a major commercial air
transportation company, engaged in the transportation of persons,
property and mail throughout the United States and abroad.

Airline Operations
- ------------------

     During 1997, United carried, on average, more than 230,000
passengers per day and flew more than 121 billion revenue passenger
miles.  It is the world's largest airline as measured by revenue
passenger miles flown, providing passenger service in 27 countries.

     United has a global network of hubs primarily designed to fly
travelers between North America (domestic segment) and the Pacific,
Latin America and Europe (international segment).  North American
hubs include Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and
Washington, D.C. (Dulles).  United also operates a major hub in
Tokyo.  Operating revenues attributed to United's North America
segment were approximately $11.2 billion in 1997, $10.7 billion in
1996, and $9.6 billion in 1995.  Operating revenues attributed to
United's international segment were approximately $6.1 billion in
1997, $5.6 billion in 1996 and $5.3 billion in 1995.

     Since October 1994, United has operated a service, Shuttle by
United (R) within its domestic segment.  This service is designed to
compete with low-cost carriers on routes under 750 miles.  While
Shuttle by United is principally concentrated on the West Coast, it
has expanded to offer approximately 466 daily flights on 24 routes
between 20 cities in the western United States.  Shuttle by United
provides critical feed traffic, at competitive prices, for United.

     Pacific.  Via its Tokyo hub, United provides passenger service
between its U.S. gateway cities (Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New
York, and San Francisco) and the Asian cities of Bangkok, Beijing,
Hong Kong, Seoul, Shanghai and Singapore.  United provides nonstop
service between Chicago and Hong Kong; between San Francisco and each
of Hong Kong, Osaka, Seoul and Taipei; between Los Angeles and each
of Hong Kong and Osaka; and between Honolulu and each of Tokyo and
Osaka.  Additionally, United provides service between Osaka and
Seoul, and between Hong Kong and each of Singapore and New Delhi.
During 1997, United served the Guam-Osaka and Manila-Seoul markets,
but on February 20, 1998, all Guam service and all Manila passenger
service were terminated.  Cargo service in Manila continues.

     On January 30, 1998, the U.S. and Japanese governments agreed to
expand the 1952 air services agreement between the two countries.
One of the benefits under the new agreement is that certain carriers,
including United, will have no limits on the number of frequencies
they can operate.  Accordingly, on April 8, 1998, United will
increase nonstop service between Chicago and Tokyo from six flights
each week to 14 weekly fights.  On July 8, 1998, United will begin
daily nonstop service between Chicago and Osaka.

     In addition, the agreement allows code-sharing between U.S. and
Japanese carriers.  The new agreement also settles long-standing
disputes regarding the utilization of "beyond Japan" flying rights.
United holds significant traffic rights beyond Japan and as capacity
increases at Japan's two major airports, Narita and Kansai, United
plans to add service from Japan to other Asian points.

     United serves the South Pacific market with flights between 
Sydney and each of Los Angeles and San Francisco, and between
San Francisco and each of Auckland and Melbourne.  In 1997, 
United was the leading U.S. carrier in the Pacific in terms of 
available seat miles.  United's Pacific operations accounted for 
20% of United's revenues in 1997.

     Europe.  United provides nonstop passenger service between six
U.S. cities and London, as well as service between London and each of
Amsterdam and New Delhi; nonstop service between Paris and each of
Chicago, San Francisco, and Washington Dulles; nonstop service
between Washington Dulles and each of Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt,
Milan and Zurich (discontinued as of March 1, 1998); and nonstop
service between Chicago and each of Dusseldorf and Frankfurt.  In
April 1997, United initiated a second nonstop flight between Chicago
and London Heathrow and plans to add a third seasonal flight in April
1998, pending government approval.  New service between Munich and
Washington Dulles will begin June 1998.  In 1997, United's Atlantic
operations accounted for 10% of United's revenues.

     The European Commission is investigating transatlantic
alliances, including the alliance between United, Lufthansa, and SAS,
and their impact upon competition.  The Commission has proposed
certain conditions, such as frequency reductions, slot forfeitures,
prohibitions on combining frequent flyer programs, and restrictions
on display screens of computer reservation systems, which, if
implemented, may impair the efficiency of United's alliance with
Lufthansa and SAS.

     Latin America.  United provides nonstop passenger service
between Miami and each of Buenos Aires, Caracas, Lima, Montevideo,
Rio de Janeiro, Santiago and Sao Paolo; between Los Angeles and each
of Guatemala City, Mexico City, and San Salvador; between New York
Kennedy and each of Buenos Aires, Caracas, Rio de Janeiro, and San
Juan; between Chicago and each of Mexico City, San Juan, and Sao
Paolo; and one flight between Mexico City and each of Denver, San
Francisco, and Washington Dulles.  Service between Chicago and Sao
Paulo was initiated in November 1997.  United also provides service
between Costa Rica and each of Guatemala City and Mexico City.  In
April 1998, United will add nonstop service between Chicago and
Guatemala City, as well as a second flight between Chicago and Mexico
City.  In July 1998, nonstop service will be added between Washington
Dulles and San Salvador.  In 1997, United's Latin America operations
accounted for 5% of United's revenues.

     Alliances and Marketing Arrangements.  United has formed
alliances with other airlines to participate in markets that it
cannot serve directly for commercial or governmental reasons.  An
alliance is a collaborative marketing arrangement between carriers
which can include joint frequent flyer participation, coordination of
reservations, baggage handling, and flight schedules, and code-
sharing of operations.  "Code-sharing" is an agreement under which a
carrier's flights can be marketed under the two-letter airline
designator code of another carrier.  Through an alliance, carriers
can provide their customers a seamless global travel network under
their own airline code.

     In May 1997, United, Lufthansa, Air Canada, SAS and Thai Airways
formed the Star Alliance (TM), an integrated worldwide transport network
which provides customers with global recognition and a wide range of
other benefits.  The Star Alliance should enable its member carriers
to more effectively compete with other worldwide alliances.  In
October 1997, Varig joined the alliance.  United holds antitrust
immunity with Lufthansa, SAS and Air Canada.

     Other alliance air carriers include Aeromar, Aeromexico, Air New
Zealand, ALM Antillean, Aloha, Ansett (which operates in both
Australia and New Zealand), British Midland, Cayman Airways,
Continental Connection, Emirates, Gulfstream International, Mexicana,
Saudi Arabian, and TW Express.

     In addition, United has a marketing program in North America,
known as the United Express (R) program, under which independent
regional carriers, utilizing turboprop equipment and some regional
jets, feed United hubs and international gateways. The carriers in
the United Express program provide service to United at 182 airports.

     Cargo Service.  United's cargo division accounts for
approximately 5% of the Company's operating revenues.  In 1997,
United introduced all-cargo service between the U.S. and Asia,
operating four DC10-30F freighter aircraft.  United also opened two
cargo facilities:  a cargo consolidation center in Charlotte, North
Carolina to serve the Southeastern and mid-Atlantic states and a
transfer center at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York.
A large cargo transfer facility is currently being constructed in
Honolulu and is scheduled to open during the second quarter of 1998.
The Hawaii facility is expected to be a major connection point for
Japanese traffic to and from the U.S. mainland, and for local traffic
in and out of Hawaii.

     Frequent Flyer Program.  United established the Mileage Plus (R)
frequent flyer program to retain and develop passenger loyalty by
offering awards to frequent travelers.  Mileage Plus members earn
mileage credit for flights on United, Shuttle by United, United
Express and certain other participating airlines, or for utilizing
the services of other program participants, such as hotels, car
rental companies and bank credit card issuers.  Mileage credits can
be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel awards on United
and other participating airlines, or for other travel industry
awards.  The redemption of awards under the program is restricted
with expiration dates, blackout periods and capacity controlled
bookings, limiting the use of the awards on certain flights.

     When an award level is attained, liability is recorded for the
incremental costs of accrued credits based on expected redemptions.
United's incremental costs include the additional costs of providing
service for what would otherwise be a vacant seat, such as fuel,
meal, personnel and ticketing costs.  The incremental costs do not
include any contribution to overhead or profit.

     At December 31, 1997, the estimated number of outstanding awards
was approximately 6.2 million, as compared with 6.1 million at the
end of the prior year.  United estimates that 4.7 million of such
awards will ultimately be redeemed and, accordingly, has recorded a
liability amounting to $195 million, which is unchanged from the
previous year.  Based on historical data, the difference between the
awards expected to be redeemed and the total awards outstanding
arises because:  (1) some awards will never be redeemed, (2) some
will be redeemed for non-travel benefits, and (3) some will be
redeemed on partner carriers.

     The number of Mileage Plus awards used on United in 1997 was 1.8
million, compared to 1.5 million in 1996 and 1.8 million in 1995.
Such awards represented 8% of United's total revenue passenger miles
in 1997, 7% in 1996 and 8% in 1995.  These low percentages, as well
as seat availability restrictions on the use of travel awards, keep
displacement, if any, of revenue passengers by users of Mileage Plus
awards to a minimum.

Industry Conditions
- -------------------

     Seasonality.  Air travel business is subject to seasonal
fluctuations.  United's first- and fourth-quarter results normally
are affected by reduced travel demand in the fall and winter, and
United's operations are often affected adversely by winter weather.
Thus, operating results for the Company are generally better in the
second and third quarters.

     Competition.  The airline industry is highly competitive.  In
domestic markets, new and existing carriers are free to initiate
service on any route.  United's domestic competitors include all of
the other major U.S. airlines as well as regional carriers, some of
which have lower cost structures than United.

     In its international service, United competes not only with U.S.
carriers but also with national flag carriers of foreign countries,
which in certain instances enjoy forms of governmental support not
available to U.S. carriers.  Competition on certain international
routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulations (see
"Government Regulation").  United has advantages over foreign air
carriers because of its ability to generate U.S. origin-destination
traffic from its integrated domestic route systems, and because
foreign carriers are prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local
passengers between two points in the United States.  On the other
hand, U.S. carriers in many cases are constrained from carrying
passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities
due to limitations in air service agreements or restrictions imposed
unilaterally by foreign governments.  To compensate for these
structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into
alliances and marketing arrangements which allow the carriers to
provide feed to each other's flights.  (See "Airline Operations -
Alliances and Marketing Arrangements").

     Distribution Channels.  Travel agents account for a substantial
percentage of United's sales.  In September 1997, as part of its
ongoing effort to control costs, United reduced the base travel
agency commission rate to 8% for tickets sold within the U.S., and
imposed a cap of $50.

     The use of electronic distribution systems is also an important
cost control initiative of United.  In 1997, United expanded the
capabilities of its web site by offering Internet ticketing.  The
U.S. government and the European Commission are considering placing
restrictions on the Internet products offered directly by the
airlines as they review the larger issue of additional restrictions
on the industry of computer reservation systems.

Government Regulation
- ---------------------  

     General.  All carriers engaged in air transportation in the
United States are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of
Transportation ("DOT").  The DOT has authority to:  issue
certificates of public convenience and necessity for domestic air
transportation and, through the Federal Aviation Administration
("FAA"), air-carrier operating certificates; authorize the provision
of foreign air transportation by U.S. carriers; prohibit unjust
discrimination; prescribe forms of accounts and require reports from
air carriers; regulate methods of competition, including the
provision and use of computerized reservation systems; and administer
regulations providing for consumer protection, including regulations
governing the accessibility of air transportation facilities for
handicapped individuals.  United holds certificates of public
convenience and necessity, as well as air-carrier operating
certificates, and therefore is subject to DOT regulations.  The FAA
administers the U.S. air traffic control system and oversees aviation
safety issues.

     United's operations also require licenses issued by the aviation
authorities of the foreign countries United serves.  Foreign aviation
authorities may from time to time impose a greater degree of economic
regulation than exists with respect to United's domestic operations.
United's ability to serve some foreign markets and its expansion in
many foreign markets is presently restricted by lack of aviation
agreements allowing such service or, in some cases, by the
restrictive terms of such agreements.

     In connection with its international services, United is
required to file with the DOT and to observe tariffs establishing the
fares charged and the rules governing the transportation provided.
In certain cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the
relevant foreign governments.  Shifts in United States or foreign
government aviation policies can lead to the alteration or
termination of existing air service agreements between the U.S. and
other governments, and could diminish the value of United's
international route authority.  United's operating rights under the
air services agreements may not be preservable in such cases.

     Airport Access.  Take-off and landing rights ("slots") at
Chicago O'Hare International Airport, New York John F. Kennedy
International, New York LaGuardia and Reagan National airports, are
limited by the "high density traffic rule."  Under this rule, slots
may be bought, sold or traded.  The DOT, however, can require
carriers to relinquish slots for reallocation if they fail to meet
certain minimum-use standards.

     For the past few years, the DOT has been confiscating slots from
incumbent carriers at Chicago O'Hare, including United, to provide
more opportunities for foreign carriers.  In 1997, the DOT began
creating slots at certain slot-controlled airports to allow the entry
of start-up carriers.  United has petitioned the DOT for the return
of United's confiscated O'Hare slots under the theory that
confiscation is no longer necessary if the DOT has the ability to
create new slots.  United holds a sufficient number of slots at
airports subject to the high-density rule, but its ability to expand
could be constrained if sufficient additional slots are not available
on satisfactory terms.

     United currently has a sufficient number of leased gates and
other airport facilities, but expansion by United may be constrained
at certain airports by insufficient availability of gates on
attractive terms or other factors, for example, noise restrictions.

     Safety.  The FAA has regulatory jurisdiction over flight
operations generally, including equipment, ground facilities,
maintenance, communications and other matters.  United's aircraft and
engines are maintained in accordance with the standards and
procedures recommended and approved by the manufacturers and the FAA.

     From time to time, the FAA issues airworthiness directives
("ADs") which require air carriers to undertake inspections and to
make unscheduled modifications and improvements on aircraft, engines
and related components and parts.  The ADs sometimes cause United to
incur substantial, unplanned expense when aircraft or engines are
removed from service prematurely in order to undergo mandated
inspections or modifications.  The issuance of any particular AD may
have a greater or lesser impact on United, compared to its
competitors, depending upon the equipment covered by the directive.
Civil and criminal sanctions may be assessed for not complying with
the ADs.

     Environmental Regulations.  The Airport Noise and Capacity Act
of 1990 ("ANCA") requires the phase-out by December 31, 1999 of Stage
2 aircraft operations, subject to certain waivers.  The "Stage 2" and
"Stage 3" terminology is industry vernacular referring to permissible
noise levels under various aircraft operating conditions.  The
specific noise limitations are technical, but in general, Stage 3
aircraft will produce less overall noise than Stage 2 aircraft.  By
the year 2000, all commercial aircraft within the United States must
meet the stricter Stage 3 noise requirements or be grounded.  United
will generally meet Stage 3 requirements by retiring Stage 2 aircraft
and replacing them with newer Stage 3 aircraft, and by retrofitting
the remaining Stage 2 aircraft with special equipment (known in the
industry as "hushkits").  Most of the hushkits will be acquired
through a swap of retired or retiring DC10-10 aircraft.  The cost of
acquiring the remaining hushkits is included in the Company's capital
commitments disclosed under "Liquidity and Capital Resources" of Item 7.

     Federal and state environmental laws require that underground
storage tanks (USTs) be upgraded to new construction standards and
equipped with leak detection by December 22, 1998.  These
requirements are phased in based on the age, construction and use of
existing tanks.  United operates a number of underground and above-
ground storage tanks throughout its system.  They are used for the
storage of fuels and deicing fluids.  A program for the removal or
upgrading of USTs and remediation of any related contamination has
been ongoing since 1987.  In 1998, United will complete the upgrades.

     United has been identified as a potentially responsible party in
state and federal recovery actions involving soil and groundwater
contamination.  United estimates the total cost of remediation to
range from $20 million to $40 million.

     United meets EPA emissions standards by replacing older aircraft
with newer models and by upgrading to newer engines which have more
efficient fuel burn.

     Other Government Matters.  Other federal agencies with
jurisdiction over certain aspects of United's operations include the
Department of Justice (Antitrust Division and Immigration and
Naturalization Service); the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission;
the Department of Labor (Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, and Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs of
the Employment Standards Administration); the National Mediation
Board; the National Transportation Safety Board; the Treasury
Department (U.S. Customs Service); the Federal Communications
Commission (use of radio facilities by aircraft); and the United
States Postal Service (carriage of domestic and international mail).
United is also subject to varying degrees of regulation by foreign
governments.  In time of war or certain other national emergencies,
the U.S. government may require United to provide airlift services
under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program.

Fuel
- ----

     United's results of operations are significantly affected by the
price and availability of jet fuel.  It is estimated that every $.01
change in the average annual price-per-gallon of jet fuel causes a
change of approximately $30 million in United's annual fuel costs.
The average price per gallon of jet fuel in 1997 declined 3.7%.
Changes in fuel prices are industry-wide occurrences that benefit or
harm United's competitors as well as United, although fuel-hedging
activities may affect the degree to which fuel-price changes affect
individual companies.  To assure adequate supplies of fuel and to
provide a measure of control over fuel costs, United ships fuel on
major pipelines and stores fuel close to its major hub locations.

Insurance
- ---------

     United carries liability insurance of a type customary in the
air transportation industry, in amounts which it deems adequate,
covering passenger liability, public liability and property damage
liability.  The amount recoverable by United under aircraft-hull
insurance covering all damage to its aircraft is not subject to any
deductible amount in the event of a total loss.

Employees - Labor Matters
- -------------------------

     UAL is the world's largest majority employee-owned company.  At
December 31, 1997, the Company and its subsidiaries had more than
91,700 employees.  Approximately 61% of United's employees are
represented by various labor organizations.

     The employee groups, number of employees, labor organization and
current contract status for each of United's major collective
bargaining groups as of December 31, 1997 are as follows:
  
                              Number of                   Contract Open
       Employee Group         Employees      Union        For Amendment
       --------------         ---------      -----        -------------

       Mechanics, ramp
       service & other
       ground employees       25,653         IAM          July 22, 2000
       
       Flight attendants      21,283         AFA          March 1, 2006
       
       Pilots                  9,087         ALPA         April 12, 2000
       ___________________________

     In October 1997, the flight attendants ratified a new ten-year
collective bargaining agreement with the Company.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

Flight Equipment
- ----------------

     As of December 31, 1997, United's operating aircraft fleet
totaled 575 jet aircraft, of which 271 were owned and 304 were
leased.  These aircraft are listed below:

                                
                      Average                                   Average
  Aircraft Type      No. of Seats    Owned   Leased*   Total   Age (Years)
  -------------      ------------    -----   -------   -----   -----------
                                       
  A319-100               126           0         4       4             0
  A320-200               144           8        33      41             3
  B727-200               147          59        16      75            19
  B737-200               109          28         0      28            29
  B737-200A              109          24         0      24            18
  B737-300               129          10        91     101             9
  B737-500               112          27        30      57             6
  B747-100               444           9         0       9            26
  B747-200               347           2         7       9            19
  B747-400               384          10        21      31             5
  B757-200               188          39        55      94             6
  B767-200               168          19         0      19            15
  B767-300               206           5        18      23             5
  B777-200               292          13        17      30             1
  DC10-10                288          15         7      22            21
  DC10-30                298           1         3       4            19
  DC10-30F               N/A           2         2       4            18
  
  TOTAL OPERATING
  FLEET                              271       304     575            11
                                     ===       ===     ===            ==
  
    *  United's aircraft leases have initial terms of 4 to 26 years,
       and expiration dates range from 1998 through 2020.  Under the
       terms of leases for 297 of the aircraft in the operating fleet,
       United has the right to purchase the aircraft at the end of the
       lease term, in some cases at fair market value and in others at
       fair market value or a percentage of cost.
       
       
     As of December 31, 1997, 68 of the 271 aircraft owned by United
were encumbered under debt agreements.

     In 1997 United took delivery of 30 new aircraft: four A319-100s,
five A320-200s, five B747-400s, two B757-200s, and fourteen B777-
200s.  United also retired 19 aircraft: ten B737-200s, five B747-100s
and four DC10-10s.

     As of December 31, 1997, United had on order twenty-four A319-
100s, twelve A320-200s, nineteen B747-400s, four B757-200s, eight
B767-300s, and six B777-200s, all of which are scheduled for delivery 
between 1998 and 2002.  The following table sets forth United's firm 
aircraft orders and expected delivery schedules as of December 31, 1997:

       Aircraft Type    Number     To Be Delivered         Delivery Rate
       -------------    ------     ---------------         -------------
  
          A319-100        24        1998-1999              0-3 per month
          A320-200        12        1998-1999              0-3 per month
          B747-400        19        1998-2002              0-2 per month
          B757-200         4        1998-1999              0-1 per month
          B767-300         8        1998-2000              0-1 per month
          B777-200         6        1998-1999              0-2 per month
  
          Total           73


     On February 26, 1998, the UAL board of directors approved an order 
for 30 new Airbus aircraft, which are not included in the above schedule.     
For further discussion, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Capital
Commitments" of Item 7.


Ground Facilities and Equipment
- -------------------------------

     United has entered into various leases relating to its use of
airport-landing areas, gates, hangar sites, terminal buildings and
other airport facilities in most of the municipalities it serves.
Major leases expire at Chicago O'Hare in 2018, San Francisco in 2011,
Washington Dulles in 2014 and Los Angeles in 2021.  United also has
leased ticketing, sales and general office space in the downtown and
outlying areas of most of the larger cities in its system.  In
suburban Chicago, United owns a 106-acre complex consisting of more
than one-million square feet of office space for its world
headquarters, a computer facility and a training center.

     United's Maintenance Operation Center ("MOC") at San Francisco
International Airport occupies 129 acres of land, three-million
square feet of floor space and 12 aircraft hangar docks under lease
expiring in 2007, with an option to extend for 10 years.  United also
has a major facility at the Oakland, California airport, dedicated to
airframe maintenance.

     United's Indianapolis Maintenance Center ("IMC") is operated
under a lease with the Indianapolis Airport Authority that expires in
2031.  IMC is a major aircraft maintenance and overhaul facility and
is being used for maintenance of Boeing B737, B757 and B767 aircraft.
United is expanding its operations at IMC to maintain its fleet of
Airbus A320 aircraft at the facility beginning in 1998.

     At Denver International Airport, United operates under a lease
and use agreement expiring in 2025, and occupies 44 gates and more
than one million square feet of exclusive or preferential use
terminal building space.  United's flight training center, located at
the former Stapleton International Airport, was purchased by United
from the City and County of Denver in January, 1997 and will
accommodate 36 flight simulators and more than 90 computer-based
training stations.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     No material legal actions pending.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of the
Company during the fourth quarter of 1997.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

     Information regarding the executive officers of the Company is
as follows:

     Gerald Greenwald.  Age 62.  Mr. Greenwald has been Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company and United since July 12,
1994.  Prior to joining the Company, he served as Chairman of Tatra
Truck Company, Czech Republic (a truck manufacturer) from March 1993
until July 1994.  Mr. Greenwald previously served as President of
Olympia & York Developments Limited (a real estate development
company in the process of restructuring at the time Mr. Greenwald
agreed to serve as president and certain subsidiaries of which filed
for protection under federal bankruptcy laws in connection with such
restructuring) from 1992 until March of 1993.

     John A. Edwardson.  Age 48.  Mr. Edwardson has been President
and a member of the Board of Directors of the Company since July 12,
1994, and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and United since
March 30, 1995.  Prior to joining the Company, he served as Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ameritech Corporation
(a telecommunications company) from 1991 to July 1994.

     Stuart I. Oran.  Age 47.  Mr. Oran has been Executive Vice
President of the Company and Executive Vice President - Corporate
Affairs of United since July 12, 1994.  Prior to joining the Company,
he was a corporate partner with Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton and
Garrison, a law firm he joined in 1974.

     Douglas A. Hacker.  Age 42.  Mr. Hacker has been Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and United since
July 12, 1994 and had served previously as Senior Vice President -
Finance of United.  From 1991 until joining United in 1993, Mr.
Hacker served as Vice President - Corporate and Fleet Planning at
American Airlines, Inc. (an air carrier).

     Christopher D. Bowers.  Age 50.  Mr. Bowers has been Senior Vice
President - International of United since April 1, 1995.  From 1988
until assuming his current position, Mr. Bowers was Vice President
and General Sales Manager of the sales division.

     David Coltman.  Age 55.  Mr. Coltman has been Senior Vice
President - Marketing of United since April 1, 1995.  From 1989 until
assuming his current position, Mr. Coltman served as Vice President -
Atlantic Division.

     Rono Dutta.  Age 46.  Mr. Dutta has been Senior Vice President -
Planning of United since November 7, 1994 and became an executive
officer of United on April 1, 1995.  From 1991 until assuming his
current position, Mr. Dutta held other vice president positions at
United, overseeing cargo, information systems, and maintenance.

     James E. Goodwin.  Age 53.  Mr. Goodwin has been Senior Vice
President - North America of United since April 1, 1995.  From 1992
until assuming his current position, Mr. Goodwin served as Senior
Vice President - International of United.

     William P. Hobgood.  Age 59.  Mr. Hobgood has been Senior Vice
President - People of United since March 1, 1997.  From 1981 until
joining United, he was in private practice as an attorney
specializing in mediation and arbitration, including labor-management
issues.

     Andrew P. Studdert.  Age 41.  Mr. Studdert has been Senior Vice
President - Fleet Operations for United since September 1997.
Previously he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information
Officer of United from April 1995 to September 1997.  Prior to
joining United, he was an independent information systems consultant
from July 1994 to March 1995, Executive Vice President of First
Interstate Bancorp (banking) from February 1994 until June 1994, and
President of First Interstate of Southern Nevada Bank (a banking
corporation) from July 1991 to January 1994.

     There are no family relationships among the executive officers
of the Company.  The executive officers of the Company serve at the
discretion of the Board of Directors.



                               PART II
                               -------

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
          STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The Company's Common Stock, $.01 par value (the "Common Stock"),
is traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE")
under the symbol UAL, and is also listed on the Chicago Stock
Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange.  The following sets forth
for the periods indicated the high and low sales prices per share of
the Company's Common Stock on the NYSE Composite Tape.

                         High           Low
                         ----           ---  
  1997:
       1st quarter       $  71  1/2      $ 55  3/8
       2nd quarter          81  3/8        63
       3rd quarter          87  7/8        71  1/2
       4th quarter         101  3/4        80  1/2

  1996:
       1st quarter       $  53  11/16    $ 38  9/16
       2nd quarter          60  1/8        50  1/4
       3rd quarter          56  5/8        41  1/2
       4th quarter          64  3/4        43  1/4

     On May 6, 1996 UAL's Common Stock split four-for-one in the form
of a 300% stock dividend to holders of record at the close of
business on that date.  The per-share prices above have been adjusted
for the stock split.

     No dividends have been declared on the Company's common stock
during the past five years.  The payment of any future dividends on
the Common Stock and the amount thereof will be determined by the
Board of Directors of the Company based on earnings, the financial
condition of the Company and other relevant factors.  The Company has
no immediate plans to pay cash dividends.  At February 26, 1998,
based on reports by the Company's transfer agent for the Common
Stock, there were 13,155 common stockholders of record.  In addition,
there were 3,567 holders of record of the Company's old common stock,
$5 par value, who have not tendered their stock certificates as a
result of the employee stock ownership transaction.


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data and Operating Statistics
- ----------------------------------------------------------




Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations
- -----------------------------------------------------------
     
     This section contains forward-looking statements which
     are identified with an asterisk (*).  Factors that
     could significantly impact the expected results
     referenced in the forward-looking statements are listed
     in the last paragraph of the section, "Outlook for
     1998."
                              
      On July 12, 1994, the stockholders of UAL Corporation
("UAL") approved a plan of recapitalization that provides an
approximately 55% equity and voting interest in UAL to
certain employees of United Air Lines, Inc. ("United") in
exchange for wage concessions and work-rule changes.  The
employees' equity interest is being allocated to individual
employee accounts through the year 2000 under Employee Stock
Ownership Plans ("ESOPs") which were created as part of the
recapitalization.  Since the ESOP shares are being allocated
over time, the current ownership interest held by employees
is substantially less than 55%.  The entire ESOP voting
interest is currently exercisable, which is voted by the
ESOP trustee at the direction of, and on behalf of, the
employees participating in the ESOPs.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

Liquidity -
      UAL's total of cash and cash equivalents and short-
term investments was $845 million at December 31, 1997,
compared to $697 million at December 31, 1996.  Operating
activities during the year generated $2.567 billion and the
Company's sale of its interest in the Apollo Travel Services
Partnership provided $539 million in cash proceeds (see
"Sale of Affiliate").  Cash was used primarily to fund net
additions to property and equipment and to repurchase common
stock.

      Property additions, including aircraft, aircraft spare
parts, facilities and ground equipment, amounted to $2.812
billion, while property dispositions resulted in proceeds of
$83 million.  In 1997, United took delivery of fourteen
B777, five B747, two B757, five A320 and four A319 aircraft.
Twenty-four of these aircraft were purchased and six were
acquired under capital leases.  Three of the aircraft
purchased during the year were later sold and then leased
back.  Additionally, United acquired two B767 and one DC10-
10 off-lease during 1997.

      Consistent with a plan announced early in the year,
the Company made payments of $250 million for the repurchase
of 2.9 million shares of common stock.  Financing activities
also included the early extinguishment of $151 million in
principal amount of various debt securities, mandatory
repayments of long-term debt totaling $136 million, payments
under capital lease obligations of $147 million, deposits of
an equivalent $112 million in Japanese yen, German marks and
French francs with certain banks in connection with the
financing of certain aircraft acquired under capital lease
transactions, as well as the issuance of $597 million of
enhanced pass through certificates.

      Included in cash and cash equivalents at December 31,
1997 were $111 million of securities held by third parties
under securities lending agreements, as well as collateral
in the amount of 102% of the value of the securities lent.
United is obligated to reacquire the securities from the
borrower at the end of the contract.

      As of December 31, 1997, UAL had a working capital
deficit of $2.300 billion as compared to $2.321 billion at
December 31, 1996.  Historically, UAL has operated with a
working capital deficit and, as in the past, UAL expects to
meet all of its obligations as they become due.  In
addition, UAL may from time to time repurchase on the open
market, in privately negotiated purchases or otherwise,
debentures or preferred stock.

      United has available a $750 million revolving credit
facility, as well as a separate $227 million short-term
borrowing facility, as described in Note 7 "Short-Term
Borrowings" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

      Prior Years.  Operating activities in 1996 generated
cash flows of $2.453 billion.  Cash was used primarily to
repay long-term debt and to fund net additions to property
and equipment.  In addition to the early extinguishment of
$641 million in principal amount of various debt securities,
UAL made mandatory repayments of long-term debt totaling
$150 million and payments under capital lease obligations of
$112 million during the year.  Financing activities also
included payments of $324 million for conversions of all of
UAL's outstanding 6 3/8% convertible debentures, $84 million
for repurchases of UAL's Series B preferred stock and
deposits of an equivalent $110 million in Japanese yen with
certain banks in connection with the financing of certain
capital lease transactions.  Property additions amounted to
$1.538 billion, while property dispositions resulted in
proceeds of $55 million.

      Operating activities in 1995 generated cash flows of
$1.624 billion.  Cash was used primarily to repay long-term
debt, reacquire preferred stock, reduce short-term
borrowings and to fund net additions to property and
equipment.  In addition to the early extinguishment of $750
million in principal amount of various debt securities, UAL
made mandatory repayments of long-term debt totaling $102
million.  Payments under capital lease obligations amounted
to $80 million during the year and short-term borrowings
were reduced by $269 million.  In addition, UAL spent $131
million to repurchase Series B preferred stock to be held in
treasury.  Property additions, including the acquisition of
39 previously leased aircraft, amounted to $1.111 billion.
Property dispositions resulted in proceeds of $578 million.

Capital Commitments -
      At December 31, 1997, commitments for the purchase of
property and equipment, principally aircraft, approximated
$5.6 billion, after deducting advance payments.  Of this
amount an estimated $2.6 billion is due to be spent in 1998.
These amounts do not include a recent order with Airbus
Industrie for an additional 10 A319 and 20 A320 aircraft to
be delivered through 2001.  The aircraft included in this
latest order are expected to be used to satisfy growth
opportunities, and thus, the Company now expects its
passenger fleet to grow by at least 30 aircraft by the year
2002.  For further details, see Note 18 "Commitments,
Contingent Liabilities and Uncertainties" in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Capital Resources -
      Funds necessary to finance aircraft acquisitions are
expected to be obtained from internally generated funds,
external financing arrangements or other external sources.

      At December 31, 1997, United's senior unsecured debt
was rated BB+ by Standard and Poor's ("S & P") and Baa3 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. ("Moody's").  UAL's Series B
preferred stock and redeemable preferred securities were
rated BB- by S & P and Ba3 by Moody's.  In December 1997, S
& P affirmed its ratings and revised its outlook to positive
from stable on UAL and United.


Results of Operations
- ---------------------

Summary of Results -
      UAL's earnings from operations were $1.259 billion in
1997, compared to operating earnings of $1.123 billion in
1996.  UAL's net earnings in 1997 were $949 million ($14.83
per share, basic; $8.95 per share, diluted), compared to net
earnings of $533 million in 1996 ($7.57 per share, basic;
$5.06 per share, diluted).

      These earnings include extraordinary losses of $9
million and $67 million, after tax, on early extinguishment
of debt, in 1997 and 1996, respectively.  In addition, 1997
includes an after-tax gain on the ATS/Galileo transaction
(see "Sale of Affiliate") of $235 million ($3.99 per share,
basic and $2.40 per share, diluted).  The per share amounts
for 1996 include the effects on equity of preferred stock
transactions (see Note 4 "Per Share Amounts" in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

      Management believes that a more complete understanding
of UAL's results can be gained by viewing them on a pro
forma, "Fully Distributed" basis.  This approach considers
all ESOP shares which will ultimately be distributed to
employees throughout the ESOP period (rather than just the
shares committed to be released) to be immediately
outstanding and thus fully distributed.  Consistent with
this method, the ESOP compensation expense is excluded from
Fully Distributed net earnings, and ESOP convertible
preferred stock dividends are not deducted from earnings
attributable to common stockholders.  No adjustments are
made to Fully Distributed earnings to reflect future salary
increases.  A comparison of results reported on a Fully
Distributed basis to results reported under generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is as follows:


1997 Compared with 1996 -
- -----------------------

      Operating Revenues.  Operating revenues increased
$1.016 billion (6%) and  United's revenue per available seat
mile (unit revenue) increased 2% to 10.25 cents.  Passenger
revenues increased $877 million (6%) due to a 4% increase in
United's revenue passenger miles and a 2% increase in yield
to 12.55 cents.  Available seat miles across the system were
up 4% year over year resulting in a slight increase to
system passenger load factor of 0.1 points to 71.8%.  The
following analysis by market is based on information
reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation ("DOT"):

      Latin American revenue passenger miles increased 2%,
despite no increase in capacity.  Strengthening economies in
Latin American countries as well as an improved mix of high-
yield passengers helped produce an 8% increase in yield.
Atlantic revenue passenger miles increased 20% on 19% higher
capacity reflecting increased frequencies and the
utilization of larger B777 aircraft.  Strong U.S. and
European economies provided a positive pricing environment
resulting in a 3% increase in Atlantic yield.  Pacific
revenue passenger miles and yield remained flat despite 3%
higher capacity reflecting a weak Japanese economy and a
stronger U.S. dollar.  Domestic revenue passenger miles
increased 3% on 2% higher capacity.  Domestic yield
increased 1%, despite the fact that the U.S. airline ticket
tax was in effect for only four months of 1996 versus ten
months of 1997.  New legislation, effective October 1, 1997,
includes a gradual reduction in the 10% U.S. airline ticket
tax to 7.5% by the year 2002, a phasing in of a $3 "head
tax" per domestic flight segment over the same period, an
increase in round-trip international departure and arrival
taxes from $6 to $24 per passenger and a tax on the purchase
of frequent flyer miles.  The Company expects that the new
legislation will increase United's annual tax burden by
approximately $80 million, but is unable to determine how
much of this increase it will be able to pass on to its
customers.

      Cargo revenues increased $119 million (15%) on
increases of 24% in freight ton miles and 6% in mail ton
miles, as a result of a new dedicated freighter operation
utilizing four DC10-30s and the introduction of long-range
B777-200B aircraft.  A 5% lower freight yield was only
partially offset by a 2% higher mail yield for an overall
decrease in cargo yield of 4%.

      Other operating revenues increased $20 million (2%)
due to increases in frequent flyer program partner related
revenues and fuel sales to third parties, partially offset
by the loss of ATS revenues resulting from its sale in July
1997 (see "Sale of Affiliate").

      Operating Expenses.  Operating expenses increased $880
million (6%) and United's cost per available seat mile
increased 2% from 9.33 to 9.53 cents, including ESOP
compensation expense.  Without the ESOP compensation
expense, United's 1997 cost per available seat mile would
have been 8.94 cents, an increase of less than 1% from 1996.
ESOP compensation expense increased $302 million (44%),
reflecting the increase in the estimated average fair value
of ESOP stock committed to be released to employees as a
result of UAL's higher common stock price.  Salaries and
related costs increased $299 million (6%) as a result of
increased staffing in certain customer-contact positions, as
well as mid-term wage adjustments which took effect July 1.
Commissions increased $42 million (3%) due to increased
commissionable revenues, partially offset by the change in
the commission structure which United implemented in the
third quarter of 1997.  United lowered the base commission
paid to travel agents from 10% to 8% (up to a maximum of
$50) on all tickets purchased in the U.S. and Canada for
both domestic and international travel.  This action is
expected to save approximately $100 million annually in
commission costs.  Purchased services increased $98 million
(8%) due principally to volume-related increases in computer
reservations fees, credit card discounts and communication
charges.  Aircraft maintenance increased $154 million (34%)
due to increased purchased maintenance as well as the timing
of maintenance cycles.  Depreciation and amortization
decreased $35 million (5%) despite the acquisition of new
aircraft, due to lower depreciation on DC10-10 aircraft
which are scheduled for retirement, gains on asset sales of
$23 million in 1997 compared to $11 million in 1996, and a
$30 million charge in 1996 to reduce the carrying value of
aircraft seats being replaced.  Aircraft fuel decreased $21
million (1%) despite a 3% increase in consumption, due to a
4% decrease in the price of fuel from 72.2 cents to 69.5
cents a gallon.

      Other Income and Expense.  Other income (expense)
amounted to $265 million in income in 1997 compared to $153
million in expense in 1996.  Interest capitalized, primarily
on aircraft advance payments, increased $27 million (35%).
Interest expense decreased $9 million (3%) due to the
prepayment of long-term debt in 1996.  Interest income
decreased $5 million (9%) due to lower average interest
rates.  In addition, 1997 included a $275 million gain on
the sale of ATS and a $103 million gain on the initial
public offering of Galileo stock.  1996 included a $20
million charge for the settlement of litigation related to
the travel agency commission cap implemented by the Company
in February 1995.
                       
1996 Compared with 1995 -
- -----------------------
      
      Operating Revenues.  Operating revenues increased
$1.419 billion (10%).  United's revenue per available seat
mile increased 7% to 10.02 cents.  Passenger revenues
increased $1.238 billion (9%) due to a 4% increase in
United's revenue passenger miles and a 5% increase in yield
to 12.35 cents.  The following analysis by market is based
on information reported to the DOT:

      Yield increases in the domestic (7%), Atlantic (7%)
and Latin American (4%) markets were partially offset by a
4% decrease in Pacific yield.  Domestic yield increased as a
result of a larger proportion of high yield business traffic
and fare levels influenced by the expiration of the Federal
passenger excise tax from January through August.  A weaker
Japanese yen versus the dollar had a significant negative
impact on 1996 Pacific yield.  Both domestic and
international revenue passenger miles increased by 4%.
Available seat miles increased 3% for the system, reflecting
increases of 4% in the Pacific and Latin American and 3% in
domestic markets.  Atlantic available seat miles remained
unchanged.  As a result, system passenger load factor
increased 1.2 points to 71.7%.

      Cargo revenues increased $16 million (2%).  Freight
ton miles increased 6% and mail ton miles increased 5%.  A
6% lower freight yield was only partially offset by a 3%
higher mail yield for an overall decrease in cargo yield of
3%.

      Other operating revenues increased $165 million (17%)
due to increases in frequent flyer program partner related
revenues, contract maintenance and fuel sales to third
parties.

      Operating Expenses.  Operating expenses increased
$1.125 billion (8%).  United's cost per available seat mile
increased 5% from 8.87 cents to 9.32 cents.  ESOP
compensation expense increased $181 million (36%),
reflecting the increase in the estimated average fair value
of ESOP stock committed to be released to employees as a
result of UAL's higher common stock price.  Aircraft fuel
increased $402 million (24%) due to a 2% increase in
consumption and a 21% increase in the average price per
gallon of fuel from 59.5 cents to 72.2 cents.  Without the
increases in ESOP compensation expense and aircraft fuel,
United's cost per available seat mile would have increased
2%.  Salaries and related costs increased $193 million (4%)
due principally to increased staffing in certain customer-
contact positions.  Other expenses increased $166 million
(9%) due principally to costs associated with sales to third
parties of fuel, contract maintenance and other work.
Purchased services increased $125 million (12%) due
principally to volume-related increases in computer
reservations fees, credit card discounts and communication
charges.  Aircraft maintenance increased $42 million (10%)
due to increased purchased maintenance, as well as the
timing of maintenance cycles.  Depreciation and amortization
increased $95 million (14%) due principally to a $30 million
charge to reduce the carrying value of aircraft seats and to
a $41 million gain recorded in 1995 on the disposition of
certain aircraft.  Commissions were flat year over year
despite an increase in commissionable revenues due to lower
average commission rates.  These lower rates were partially
attributable to the full year effects of a new travel agent
commission plan introduced in 1995.  Aircraft rent decreased
$57 million (6%) due to the acquisition of 39 aircraft off-
lease in the second half of 1995.

      Other Income and Expense.  Other expense amounted to
$153 million in 1996 compared to $208 million in 1995.
Interest capitalized, primarily on aircraft advance
payments, increased $35 million (83%).  Interest expense
decreased $104 million (26%) due to the prepayment of long-
term debt in 1995 and 1996 and the conversion of convertible
debentures in the second quarter of 1996.  Interest income
decreased $41 million (42%) due to lower investment
balances.  Equity in earnings of affiliates increased $16
million (33%) due to higher earnings from Galileo
International resulting from increased booking revenues.
Included in other expense for 1996 is a $20 million charge
for the settlement of litigation related to the travel
agency commission cap implemented by the Company in 1995.

Other Information
- -----------------

Sale of Affiliate -
       In July 1997, United completed the sale of its
interest in the Apollo Travel Services Partnership ("ATS"),
a 77% owned affiliate whose accounts were consolidated, to
Galileo International, Inc. ("Galileo"), heretofore a 38%
owned affiliate accounted for under the equity method, for
$539 million in cash.  This transaction resulted in a pre-
tax gain of approximately $405 million.  Of this amount,
$275 million was recognized during the third quarter and the
balance will be recognized over the next 25 years, the
estimated remaining life of the assets acquired by Galileo.

       Galileo raised a portion of the proceeds used to
purchase ATS through the completion of an initial public
offering of 16,799,700 shares of its common stock,
representing 16.0% of its economic interest, at $24.50 per
share for net proceeds of approximately $390 million.  This
transaction resulted in a reduction of the Company's
ownership in Galileo from 38% to 32%.  In accordance with
the Company's policy of recognizing gains or losses on the
sale of a subsidiary's stock, based on the difference
between the offering price and the Company's carrying amount
of such stock, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $103
million during the third quarter.  Pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, the Company
also recorded $40 million of deferred taxes related to this
gain.

        In connection with the sale, United entered into an
additional services agreement under which the Company will
provide certain marketing and other services designed to
increase the competitiveness of Galileo's business and to
generate additional bookings and revenues for Galileo.
Under this agreement, United could receive up to $154
million (on a present value basis) in the sixth year
following the sale, based on specified improvements in air
booking revenues over a five-year period.

      United continues to account for Galileo under the
equity method and will continue to purchase computer
reservations services under its existing services agreement
with Galileo.

Labor Agreements and Wage Adjustments -
      The 1994 recapitalization resulted in new labor
agreements for certain employee groups and a new corporate
governance structure, which was designed to achieve balance
between the various employee-owner groups and public
stockholders.  The labor agreements and governance structure
could inhibit management's ability to alter strategy in a
volatile, competitive industry by restricting certain
operating and financing activities, including the sale of
assets, the issuance of equity securities and the ability to
furlough employees.

      Consistent with the various agreements supporting the
July 1994 recapitalization, in 1997 employees represented by
the Air Line Pilots' Association, International ("ALPA") and
the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers ("IAM") ratified mid-term wage adjustments providing
for 5% increases in wage rates in July 1997 and 1998.
Further, the agreement with ALPA calls for a corresponding
5% increase in both 1997 and 1998 to "book rates" (book
rates are used to compute certain other employee benefits),
and the agreement with the IAM provided for lump sum
payments for all IAM employees and increases in hourly
license premium and skill pay for mechanics.  These
agreements also provide for restoration of wage rates for
the two groups in the year 2000 to levels that existed prior
to the recapitalization in July 1994, as well as restoration
of the Company's contribution to the pilots' defined
contribution plan from its current rate of 1% to its pre-
ESOP rate of 9% in the year 2000.

      Also during the year, the Company announced the
details of the mid-term wage adjustments for United States
salaried and management employees.  Salaried employees
received a 5% increase in July 1997, as well as a lump-sum
payment, and will receive an additional 5% increase in July
1998.  Management employees received a 4% increase in July
1997, and will receive an additional 4% increase in July
1998.  Also, management employees not participating in the
Company's Incentive Compensation Plan will participate in a
three-year profit-sharing plan that could pay an additional
amount in 1999 and 2000, if the Company meets specific pre-
tax earnings objectives in 1998 and 1999, respectively.
These employees already received the maximum annual profit
sharing payout, 3.75% of annual wages, in February 1998,
based on 1997's financial performance.

      On October 1, 1997, the Association of Flight
Attendants ("AFA") ratified a new contract which will remain
in effect through March 1, 2006.  Included in the contract
was a lump sum payment of 7% in December 1997 and future
lump sum payments of 4% in December 1998 and 1999 and 5% in
2001, 2003 and 2005; as well as minimum 2% wage increases in
2000, 2002 and 2004.  Additionally, the contract includes a
series of arbitrations beginning in 2001 which can award
additional compensation increases, subject to meeting Vision
2000 goals as discussed below.  The agreement also provides
for benefits and work rule changes and a number of service
quality and productivity enhancements designed to help the
Company achieve its customer satisfaction objectives.

      The wage, benefit and work-rule adjustments outlined
above are consistent with the Company's objective, known as
Vision 2000, to put employee compensation on a competitive
level with peer group compensation at the conclusion of the
agreements outlined above.  The ultimate cost to the Company
of Vision 2000, particularly given that peer group
compensation is subject to change between now and the
conclusion of the agreements, is not determinable.  However,
as a result of these changes, the Company expects that its
annual Salaries and related costs will increase at a faster
rate than its major competitors from now through the year
2000.

Foreign Operations -
      United generates revenues and incurs expenses in
numerous foreign currencies.  These expenses include
aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel costs,
reservation and ticket office services, customer service
expenses and aircraft maintenance.  Changes in foreign
currency exchange rates impact operating income through
changes in foreign currency-denominated operating revenues
and expenses.  Despite the adverse (favorable) effects a
strengthening (weakening) foreign currency may have on U.S.
originating traffic, a strengthening (weakening) of foreign
currencies tends to increase (decrease) reported revenue and
operating income because United's foreign currency-
denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign
currency-denominated operating expense for each currency.
      By carrying passengers and cargo in both directions
between the U.S. and almost every major economic region in
the world and by selling its services in each local country,
United attempts to mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in
any single foreign currency.  The Company's biggest net
exposures are typically for Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars
and Australian dollars.  During 1997, yen-denominated
operating revenue net of yen-denominated operating expense
was approximately 62 billion yen (approximately $541
million), Hong Kong dollar-denominated operating revenue net
of Hong Kong dollar-denominated operating expense was
approximately 1,692 million Hong Kong dollars (approximately
$219 million) and Australian dollar-denominated operating
revenue net of Australian dollar-denominated operating
expense was approximately 218 million Australian dollars
(approximately $161 million).  United hedges some of the
risk of exchange rate volatility on its anticipated future
net yen and net Hong Kong dollar cash flows by purchasing
put options for each respective currency.  To reduce some of
the costs of this hedging program, the Company also sells
call options in each currency from time to time.  United
attempts to reduce its exposure to transaction gains and
losses by converting excess local currencies generated to
U.S. dollars and by entering into currency forward or
exchange contracts.  The total notional amount of
outstanding currency options and forward exchange contracts,
and their respective fair market values as of December 31,
1997, are summarized in Item 7A.  Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

      United's foreign operations involve insignificant
amounts of physical assets; however, there are sizable
intangible assets related to acquisitions of foreign route
authorities.  Operating authorities in international markets
are governed by bilateral aviation agreements between the
United States and foreign countries.  Changes in U.S. or
foreign government aviation policies can lead to the
alteration or termination of existing air service agreements
that could adversely impact the value of United's
international route authority.  Significant changes in such
policies could also have a material impact on UAL's
operating revenues and results of operations.

      In January 1998, the governments of Japan and the
United States announced details of a new four-year aviation
agreement which liberalizes the aviation market between the
U.S. and Japan.  Under the accord, United has been
designated an "incumbent carrier" and as such, will be
permitted to offer service between any points in the U.S.
and any points in Japan and will also be entitled to fly
beyond Japan to other points in Asia without restriction.
Further, United will be able to code-share flights with
Japanese, third country or other U.S. airlines if it
chooses.  While these rights give more flexibility to the
Company than it had under the previous U.S.-Japan aviation
agreement, many of United's competitors also received
benefits in the form of greater access to the U.S.-Japan
market.  Further, access to Tokyo's Narita airport is
constrained by current capacity limitations on takeoff and
landing slots.  Thus, while supportive of the new agreement,
the Company is unable to predict what overall effect, if
any, the new agreement will have on its future financial
results as long as the current capacity limitations at
Narita are in existence.  However, upon completion of a
second runway at Narita, the Company expects the current
capacity limitations to be relaxed and believes it will be
able to realize significant financial benefits as a result
of the flexibility received under the new U.S.-Japan
aviation agreement.*

Deferred Tax Assets -
      UAL's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 1997
includes a net deferred tax asset of $165 million, compared
to $359 million at December 31, 1996.  The net deferred tax
asset is composed of approximately $2.257 billion of
deferred tax assets and $2.092 billion of deferred tax
liabilities.  The deferred tax assets include, among other
things, $918 million related to obligations for
postretirement and other employee benefits, $398 million
related to gains on sales and leasebacks, $382 million
related to rent expense and $137 million related to
alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforwards.
Management believes it is more likely than not that future
taxable income will be sufficient to utilize the deferred
tax assets at December 31, 1997.*

Airport Rents and Landing Fees -
      United is charged facility rental and landing fees at
virtually every airport at which it operates.  In recent
years, many airports have increased or sought to increase
rates charged to airlines as a means of compensating for
increasing demands upon airport revenues.  Airlines have
challenged certain of these increases through litigation and
in some cases have not been successful.  The Federal
Aviation Administration ("FAA") and the DOT have instituted
an administrative hearing process to judge whether rate
increases are legal and valid.  However, to the extent the
limitations on such charges are relaxed or the ability of
airlines to challenge such charges is restricted, the rates
charged by airports may increase substantially.  Management
cannot predict the magnitude of any such increase.

Year 2000 Compliance -
     Over the next two years, most large companies will face
a potentially serious business problem because many software
applications and computer equipment developed in the past
may not properly recognize calendar dates beginning in the
year 2000.  This problem could cause computers to either
shut down or provide incorrect data.  United began taking
measures to address this problem in late 1995 and has
created a Year 2000 Project office, headed by a senior
officer of the Company, to manage and coordinate the
Company's efforts to identify and fix critical date-
sensitive systems.  The scope of the Company's efforts is
divided into two major phases, review of internally used
software as well as review of other potential operational
impacts and relationships with key business partners.  The
status of the Company's efforts in each of these areas is as
follows:

     The Company has completed its assessment of over 40,000
mainframe-based and network-based programs used internally
in connection with key business applications, and has
estimated that it will cost approximately $15 million to
modify these programs to make them Year 2000 compliant.
Through December 31, 1997, $4 million has been spent and
recognized as expense in the Company's results of
operations.  The Company's plan is to have all applications
not compliant as of December 31, 1997 modified and tested by
December 31, 1998.

     United has not yet completed its assessment of the
impact of Year 2000 on operational systems such as aircraft
avionics, flight simulators and airport operations as well
as relationships with key business partners, including the
FAA, other governmental agencies and suppliers.  This
assessment involves a five stage process:  Identification,
Assessment of Impacts, Development of Remediation Approach,
Prioritization of Efforts, and Testing and Implementation of
Remediation Approach.  The Company will carry out this task
through a company-wide effort, assisted by consultants, to
address internal issues, and jointly with industry trade
groups, to address issues related to key business partners
which are common to other air carriers.  The Company has not
completed the development of the remediation approach for
all affected areas.  As a result, the Company cannot
estimate what the total cost will be to implement
remediation efforts for all critical operational systems but
it is possible that such costs will be material.  The
Company expects to complete the assessment and development
stages of this plan by September 1998, at which time it
expects to be able to make a reasonable cost estimate.
Implementation of all remediation efforts is scheduled to be
completed by March 31, 1999.

     The Company has started an ongoing program to review
the status of key supplier Year 2000 compliance efforts.
While the Company believes it is taking all appropriate
steps to assure Year 2000 compliance, it is dependent on key
business partner compliance to some extent.  The Year 2000
problem is pervasive and complex as virtually every computer
operation will be affected in some way.  Consequently, no
assurance can be given that Year 2000 compliance can be
achieved without costs that might affect future financial
results or cause reported financial information not to be
necessarily indicative of future operating results or future
financial condition.

Environmental and Legal Contingencies -
      United has been named as a Potentially Responsible
Party at certain Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA")
cleanup sites which have been designated as Superfund Sites.
United's alleged proportionate contributions at the sites
are minimal; however, at sites where the EPA has commenced
litigation, potential liability is joint and several.
Additionally, United has participated and is participating
in remediation actions at certain other sites, primarily
airports.  The estimated cost of these actions is accrued
when it is determined that it is probable that United is
liable.  Such accruals have not been material.
Environmental regulations and remediation processes are
subject to future change, and determining the actual cost of
remediation will require further investigation and
remediation experience.  Therefore, the ultimate cost cannot
be determined at this time.  However, while such cost may
vary from United's current estimate, United believes the
difference between its accrued reserve and the ultimate
liability will not be material.*

      UAL has certain other contingencies resulting from
this and other litigation and claims incident to the
ordinary course of business.  Management believes, after
considering a number of factors, including (but not limited
to) the views of legal counsel, the nature of such
contingencies and prior experience, that the ultimate
disposition of these contingencies is not likely to
materially affect UAL's financial condition, operating
results or liquidity.*

New Accounting Pronouncements -
      The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") has
issued SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" which
establishes standards for displaying comprehensive income
and its components in a full set of general purpose
financial statements;  SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" which
establishes standards for reporting information about
operating segments in financial statements; and SFAS No.
132, "Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits" which revises disclosure
requirements for pension and other postretirement benefit
plans.  Each of these statements are effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 1997, and are not
expected to have a material impact on the Company's
financial position or results of operations.

Outlook for 1998 -
      The recent economic downturn in Asia, where currency
devaluations and debt crises have negatively affected growth
through most of the region and pushed some countries into 
recession, has caused a fall-off in Pacific revenue passenger
miles through the first two months of the year.  As a result,
the Company expects full-year system revenues to be lower than
originally planned when it released 1998 revenue and cost
guidance last December.  In keeping with the Company's contingency
planning, United is taking steps to respond to and offset the
effects on profits from the weakness of the Asian market.  These
measures include the reallocation of capacity and the revision
of discretionary spending plans.  Furthermore, some costs,
such as fuel, are expected to be below earlier estimates,
resulting in lower than previously anticipated full-year expenses.

      All factors considered, the Company anticipates continued
strong performance in 1998.  Real Gross Domestic Product in the
U.S. is assumed to continue to grow moderately at a rate of about
2.5% and the system capacity of U.S. airlines is expected to grow
at around 3% in 1998, approximately the same as its 1997 growth
rate.  United's available seat miles are expected to increase 2.5%, 
with 3.5% growth domestically and 1.5% growth internationally.  
Revenue per available seat mile is forecast to be up 
approximately 1%.  Costs per available seat mile excluding
ESOP charges are expected to increase approximately 1%.

      For the first quarter, United expects total system
revenue per available seat mile to decrease by 3.5% versus
the same period last year, on 2.5% higher capacity.  Costs per
available seat mile excluding ESOP charges are expected to 
decrease approximately 3% over the first quarter of 1997.  The
Company's outlook is consistent with the current First Call
consensus earnings estimate of $1.55 per fully distributed
share for the first quarter.

      The information included in the above outlook section,
as well as certain statements made throughout the
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations that are identified by an asterisk
(*), is forward-looking and involves risks and uncertainties
that could result in actual results differing materially
from expected results.  It is not reasonably possible to
itemize all of the many factors and specific events that
could affect the outlook of an airline operating in the
global economy.  Some factors that could significantly
impact expected capacity, unit revenues, fully distributed 
unit costs and fully distributed earnings per share include 
the airline pricing environment, industry capacity decisions, 
willingness of customers to travel, the success of the Company's 
cost control efforts, fuel cost, costs of safety and security 
measures, actions of the U.S., foreign and local governments, 
the effect of the U.S. excise tax on travel, foreign currency 
exchange rate fluctuations, the Asian economic environment and 
travel patterns, the economic environment of the airline industry, 
the general economic environment and other factors discussed herein.
With respect to the forward-looking statement set forth in
the "Environmental and Legal Contingencies" section, some of
the factors that could affect the ultimate disposition of
these contingencies are changes in applicable laws, the
development of facts in individual cases, settlement
opportunities and the actions of plaintiffs, judges and
juries.


Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
          Market Risk
- --------------------------------------------------------
     
     Interest Rate Risk - United's exposure to market risk
associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily
to its debt obligations and short-term investments.  United
does not use derivative financial instruments in its
investments portfolio.  United's policy is to manage
interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and
floating rate debt and entering into swap agreements,
depending upon market conditions.  A portion of the
borrowings are denominated in foreign currencies which
exposes the Company to risks associated with changes in
foreign exchange rates.  In addition, the Company has placed
foreign currency deposits (primarily for Japanese yen,
French francs and German marks) to meet foreign currency
lease obligations designated in the respective currencies.
The unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign
currency obligations are offset by the losses or gains on
the foreign currency deposits.


     Foreign Currency Risk - United has established a
foreign currency hedging program using currency forwards and
currency options (purchasing put options or selling call
options) to hedge exposure to the Japanese yen and Hong Kong
dollar.  The goal of the hedging program is to effectively
manage risk associated with fluctuations in the value of the
foreign currency, thereby making financial results more
stable and predictable.  United does not use currency
forwards or currency options for trading purposes.



     Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel) - At December 31, 1997, the
Company had contracted to purchase approximately 6% of the
Company's 1998 fuel requirements at an average fixed price
of $0.52 per gallon.  To hedge a portion of the remaining
risk associated with changes in the price of aircraft fuel,
United has entered into certain fuel option contracts.  The
option contracts, which involve either purchasing call
options and simultaneously selling put options (collar
strategy) or purchasing call options, are designed to
provide protection against sharp increases in the price of
aircraft fuel.  In addition, to a limited extent United
trades short-term heating oil futures and option contracts,
which are immaterial.



Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
- ----------------------------------------------------    



         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                              
                              
To the Stockholders and
Board of Directors of UAL Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying statements of consolidated
financial position of UAL Corporation (a Delaware
corporation) and subsidiary companies as of December 31,
1997 and 1996, and the related statements of consolidated
operations, consolidated cash flows and consolidated
stockholders' equity for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1997.  These financial statements
and the schedule referred to below are the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of UAL Corporation and subsidiary
companies as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion
on the basic financial statements taken as a whole.  The
schedule referenced in Item 14(a)2 herein is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial
statements.  This schedule has been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audit of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in
all material respects the financial data required to be set
forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.


                                         /s/  Arthur Andersen LLP

                                         ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Chicago, Illinois
February 26, 1998


                              

                              

                              
                              





                              
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         ------------------------------------------                     
                              
(1)  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
- -----------------------------------------------
     
     (a)  Basis of Presentation - UAL Corporation ("UAL") is a
holding company whose principal subsidiary is United Air
Lines, Inc. ("United").  The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of UAL and all of its majority-owned
affiliates (collectively "the Company").  All significant
intercompany transactions are eliminated.  Investments in
affiliates are carried on the equity basis.  Certain prior-
year financial statement items have been reclassified to
conform to the current year's presentation.

     (b)  Use of Estimates - The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     (c)  Airline Revenues - Passenger fares and cargo
revenues are recorded as operating revenues when the
transportation is furnished.  The value of unused passenger
tickets is included in current liabilities.

     (d)  Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments -
Cash in excess of operating requirements is invested in
short-term, highly liquid, income-producing investments.
Investments with a maturity of three months or less on their
acquisition date are classified as cash and cash equivalents.
Other investments are classified as short-term investments.

       From time to time, United lends certain of its
securities classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-
term investments to third parties.  United requires collateral
in an amount exceeding the value of the securities and is
obligated to reacquire the securities at the end of the
contract.  United accounts for these transactions as secured
lendings rather than sales, and so does not remove the
securities from the balance sheet.

     At December 31, 1997 and 1996, $440 million and $418
million, respectively, of investments in debt securities
included in cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments were classified as available-for-sale, and $287
million and $232 million, respectively, were classified as
held-to-maturity.  Investments in debt securities classified
as available-for-sale are stated at fair value based on the
quoted market prices for the securities, which does not differ
significantly from their cost basis.  Investments classified
as held-to-maturity are stated at cost which approximates
market due to their short-term maturities. The proceeds from
sales of available-for-sale securities are included in
interest income for each respective year.


     (e)  Derivative Financial Instruments -
     Foreign Currency - United may, from time to time, enter into
Japanese yen forward exchange contracts to minimize gains and
losses on the revaluation of short-term yen-denominated
liabilities.  The yen forwards typically have a 30-day
maturity and are marked to fair value at the end of each
accounting period.  The unrealized mark-to-market gains and
losses generally offset the losses and gains recorded on the
liabilities.

     United has also entered into forwards and swaps to reduce
exposure to currency fluctuations on yen-denominated capital
lease obligations.  The cash flows of the forwards and swaps mirror
those of the capital leases.  The premiums on the forwards and
swaps, as measured at inception, are being amortized over
their respective lives as components of interest expense.  Any
gains or losses realized upon early termination of these
forwards and swaps are deferred and recognized in income over
the remaining life of the underlying exposure.

     Finally, the Company hedges some of the risks of exchange
rate volatility on its anticipated future net yen and net Hong
Kong dollar cash flows by purchasing put options for each
respective currency with little or no intrinsic value.  The
amount and duration of these options are synchronized with
specific expected inflows, and thus, the put options have been
designated as a hedge.  The Company also sells call options in
each of these currencies from time to time.  The premiums on
purchased option contracts are amortized over the lives of the
contracts.  Unrealized gains on purchased put option contracts
are deferred until contract expiration and then recognized as
a component of passenger revenue, and unrealized losses on
written call options are recorded in "Miscellaneous, net" at
the end of each accounting period.

     Interest Rates - United may from time to time enter into
swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate fluctuations in
connection with certain debt, capital leases and operating
leases.  The cash flows of the swaps mirror those of the underlying
exposures.  The premiums on the swaps, as measured at
inception, are amortized over their respective lives as
components of interest expense.  Any gains or losses realized
upon the early termination of these swaps are deferred and
recognized in income over the remaining life of the underlying
exposure.

     Aircraft Fuel - United uses a collar option strategy to
hedge a portion of its price risk related to future aircraft
fuel purchases.  The collars, which have been designated as a
hedge, involve the purchase of fuel call options with the
simultaneous sale of fuel put options with identical
expiration dates.  Premiums on fuel collar option contracts
are deferred and amortized over the life of the contract.
Gains or losses recognized upon contract expiration are
recorded as a component of aircraft fuel expense.  In
addition, to a limited extent, United trades short-term
heating oil futures and options contracts.  Unrealized losses
on these contracts are recorded currently in income while
unrealized gains are deferred until contract expiration.  Both
gains and losses are recorded as a component of aircraft fuel
expense.

     (f)  Aircraft Fuel, Spare Parts and Supplies - Aircraft
fuel and maintenance and operating supplies are stated at
average cost.  Flight equipment spare parts are stated at
average cost less an obsolescence allowance.

     (g)  Operating Property and Equipment - Owned operating
property and equipment is stated at cost.  Property under
capital leases, and the related obligation for future minimum
lease payments, are initially recorded at an amount equal to
the then present value of those lease payments.

     Depreciation and amortization of owned depreciable assets
is based on the straight-line method over their estimated
service lives.  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the
remaining period of the lease or the estimated service life of
the related asset, whichever is less.  Aircraft are
depreciated to estimated salvage values, generally over lives
of 10 to 30 years; buildings are depreciated over lives of 25
to 45 years; and other property and equipment are depreciated
over lives of 3 to 15 years.

     Properties under capital leases are amortized on the
straight-line method over the life of the lease, or in the
case of certain aircraft, over their estimated service lives.
Lease terms are 10 to 30 years for aircraft and flight
simulators and 25 years for buildings.  Amortization of
capital leases is included in depreciation and amortization
expense.

     Maintenance and repairs, including the cost of minor
replacements, are charged to maintenance expense accounts.
Costs of additions to and renewals of units of property are
charged to property and equipment accounts.

     (h)  Intangibles - Intangibles consist primarily of route
acquisition costs and intangible pension assets (see Note 15).
Route acquisition costs are amortized over 40 years.

     (i)  Mileage Plus Awards - United accrues the estimated
incremental cost of providing free travel awards earned under
its Mileage Plus frequent flyer program (including awards
earned from mileage credits sold) when such award levels are
reached.  United, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Mileage
Plus Holdings, Inc., sells mileage credits to participating
partners in the Mileage Plus program.  The resulting revenue
is recorded in other operating revenues during the period in
which the credits are sold.

     (j)  Deferred Gains - Gains on aircraft sale and
leaseback transactions are deferred and amortized over the
lives of the leases as a reduction of rental expense.

     (k) Advertising Costs - Advertising costs, which are
included in other operating expenses, are expensed as
incurred.  Advertising expense was $190 million, $184 million
and $194 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(2)  Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Recapitalization
- --------------------------------------------------------
     
     On July 12, 1994, the stockholders of UAL approved a plan
of recapitalization to provide an approximately 55% equity
interest in UAL to certain employees of United in exchange for
wage concessions and work-rule changes.  The employees' equity
interest is being allocated to individual employees through
the year 2000 under Employee Stock Ownership Plans ("ESOPs")
which were created as a part of the recapitalization.

     The ESOPs cover employees represented by the Air Line
Pilots' Association, International, the International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and U.S.
management and salaried employees.  The ESOPs include a
"Leveraged ESOP", a "Non-Leveraged ESOP" and a "Supplemental
ESOP."  Both the Leveraged ESOP and the Non-Leveraged ESOP are
tax qualified plans while the Supplemental ESOP is not a tax
qualified plan.  The purpose of having the three ESOPs is to
deliver the agreed-upon shares to employees in a manner which
utilizes the tax incentives available to tax qualified ESOPs
to the greatest degree possible.  Accordingly, shares are
delivered to employees primarily through the Leveraged ESOP,
secondly, through the Non-Leveraged ESOP, and lastly, through
the Supplemental ESOP.

     The equity interests are being delivered to employees
through two classes of preferred stock (Class 1 and Class 2
ESOP Preferred Stock, collectively "ESOP Preferred Stock"),
and the voting interests are being delivered through three
separate classes of preferred stocks (Class P, M and S Voting
Preferred Stock, collectively, "Voting Preferred Stock").  The
Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock is being delivered to an ESOP
trust in seven separate sales through January 1, 2000 under
the Leveraged ESOP, four of which have already taken place.
Based on Internal Revenue Code Limitations, shares of the
Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock are either contributed to the Non-
Leveraged ESOP or allocated as "book entry" shares to the
Supplemental ESOP, annually through the year 2000.  The
classes of preferred stock are described more fully in Note
12, ESOP Preferred Stock.

     The Leveraged ESOP and Non-Leveraged ESOP are being
accounted for under AICPA Statement of Position 93-6,
"Employers' Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans"
("SOP").  For the Leveraged ESOP, as shares of Class 1 ESOP
Preferred Stock are sold to an ESOP trust, the Company reports
the issuance as a credit to additional capital invested and
records a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP preferred
stock.  Shares are committed to be released to employees on a
pro rata basis through April 12, 2000.  ESOP compensation
expense is recorded for the average market value of the shares
committed to be released during the period with a
corresponding credit to unearned ESOP preferred stock for the
cost of the shares.  Any difference between the market value
of the shares and the cost of the shares is charged or
credited to additional capital invested.  For the Non-
Leveraged ESOP, the Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock is recorded
as additional capital invested as the shares are committed to
be contributed, with the offsetting entry to ESOP compensation
expense.  The ESOP compensation expense is based on the
average fair value of the shares committed to be contributed
in accordance with the SOP.  The Supplemental ESOP is being
accounted for under Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."

     Shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are legally released or
allocated to employee accounts as of year-end.  Dividends on
the ESOP Preferred Stock are also paid at the end of the year.
Dividends on unallocated shares are used by the ESOP to pay
down the loan from UAL and are not considered dividends for
financial reporting purposes.  Dividends on allocated shares
are satisfied by releasing shares from the ESOP's suspense
account to the employee accounts and are charged to equity.

     ESOP compensation expense was $987 million, $685 million
and $504 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  During
1997, 2,345,745 shares of Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock,
190,307 shares of Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock and 2,534,687
shares of Voting Preferred Stock were allocated to employee
accounts, and another 537,917 shares of Class 2 ESOP Preferred
Stock were allocated in the form of "book entry" shares,
effective December 31, 1996.  Another 48,982 shares of Class 2
ESOP Preferred Stock previously allocated in book entry form
were issued and either contributed to the qualified plan or
converted and sold on behalf of terminating employees.  At
December 31, 1997, the year-end allocation of Class 1 ESOP
Preferred Stock to employee accounts had not yet been
completed.  There were 2,087,535 shares of Class 1 ESOP
Preferred Stock committed to be released and 888,386 shares
held in suspense by the ESOP as of December 31, 1997.  For the
Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock, 986,438 shares were committed to
be contributed to employees at December 31, 1997.  The market
value of the unearned ESOP shares recorded on the balance
sheet at December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $344 million and $309
million, respectively.

     For the Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock committed to be
contributed to employees under the Supplemental ESOP,
employees can elect to receive their "book entry" shares in
cash upon termination of employment.  The estimated market
value of such shares at December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $679
million and $206 million, respectively.

(3)  Other Income (Expense) - Miscellaneous
- -------------------------------------------
     
     Other income (expense) - "miscellaneous, net" consisted
of the following:



(4)  Per Share Amounts
- ----------------------
     
     In 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 128, "Earnings Per Share,"
effective December 31, 1997.  As a result, the Company's
reported earnings per share for 1996 and 1995 have been
restated.

     Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing net
income by the weighted average number of shares of common
stock outstanding during the year.  In addition, diluted
earnings per share amounts include potential common shares
including ESOP shares committed to be released, and assume the
conversion of convertible debentures (for periods not actually
converted) and elimination of related interest.


(1) In April 1995, UAL issued convertible subordinated debentures in
exchange for Series A preferred stock and recorded a non-cash increase 
of $45 million in additional capital invested representing the excess
of the carrying value of the preferred stock exchanged over the fair 
value of the debentures.  In December 1996, a UAL-controlled trust 
issued trust-originated preferred securities in exchange for shares of 
Series B preferred stock and recorded a non-cash decrease of $27 
million in additional capital invested representing the excess of
the fair value of the new securities over the carrying value of 
Series B.  Also, during 1996 and 1995, the Company repurchased shares
of its Series B preferred stock, resulting in decreases to additional
capital invested representing the excess of amounts pair to reaquire
the preferred stock over the liquidation preference of such stock.
These transactions had no effect on earnings; however, their net impact
on UAL's equity is included in the computation of earnings per share.

(5)  Affiliates
- ---------------
     
     United owns 32% of Galileo International, Inc.
("Galileo") through a wholly-owned subsidiary.  United's
investment in Galileo, which owns the Apollo and Galileo
computer reservations systems, is carried on the equity basis.
Included in the Company's retained earnings is approximately
$161 million of undistributed earnings of Galileo and its
predecessor companies.  The market value of United's
investment in Galileo at December 31, 1997 was $924 million.

     In July 1997, United completed the sale of its interest
in the Apollo Travel Services Partnership ("ATS"), a 77% owned
affiliate whose accounts were consolidated, to Galileo for
$539 million in cash.  See Other Information, "Sale of
Affiliate" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further
details on the transaction.

     Under operating agreements with Galileo, United purchases
computer reservations services from Galileo and provides
marketing, sales and communication services to Galileo.
Revenues derived from the sale of services to Galileo amounted
to approximately $159 million in 1997, $249 million in 1996
and $238 million in 1995.  The cost to United of services
purchased from Galileo amounted to approximately $134 million
in 1997, $114 million in 1996 and $104 million in 1995.  In
connection with the sale of ATS, United entered into an
additional services agreement with Galileo under which the
Company will provide certain marketing and other services
designed to increase the competitiveness of Galileo's business
and to generate additional bookings and revenues for Galileo.
Under this agreement, United could receive up to $154 million
(on a present value basis) in the sixth year following the
sale, based on specified improvements in air booking revenues
over a five-year period.

     Prior to the sale to Galileo, ATS contributed the
following amounts to the Company's consolidated results, net
of intercompany eliminations and minority interests:



(6)  Income Taxes
- -----------------
     
     In 1997, the regular tax liability of the Company
exceeded the alternative minimum tax ("AMT") liability
resulting in a utilization of AMT credits.  The federal income
tax liability is the greater of the tax computed using the
regular tax system or the tax under the AMT system.  However,
if the regular tax liability exceeds the AMT liability and AMT
credits are available, the AMT credits are used to reduce the
net tax liability to the amount of the AMT liability.  During
1997, UAL utilized $94 million of AMT credits.

     The provision for income taxes is summarized as follows:


     The income tax provision differed from amounts computed
at the statutory federal income tax rate, as follows:


     Temporary differences and carryforwards which give rise
to a significant portion of deferred tax assets and
liabilities for 1997 and 1996 are as follows:



     At December 31, 1997, UAL and its subsidiaries had $137
million of federal AMT credit carryforwards available for an
indefinite period.  Management believes it is more likely than
not that future taxable income will be sufficient to utilize
the deferred tax assets at December 31, 1997.


(7)  Short-Term Borrowings
- --------------------------
     
     United has an agreement with a syndicate of banks for a
$750 million revolving credit facility expiring in 2002.
Interest on drawn amounts under the facility is calculated at
floating rates based on the London interbank offered rate
("LIBOR") plus a margin which is subject to adjustment based
on certain changes in the credit ratings of United's long-term
senior unsecured debt.  Among other restrictions, the credit
facility contains a covenant which restricts United's ability
to grant liens on or otherwise encumber certain identified
assets with a market value of approximately $1.1 billion.

     In addition, United has a separate short-term borrowing
facility with a maximum available borrowing amount of $227
million which expires in October 1998.

(8)  Long-Term Debt
- -------------------
     
     A summary of long-term debt, including current
maturities, as of December 31 is as follows (interest rates
are as of December 31, 1997):
                                             

     In addition to scheduled principal payments, in 1997 and
1996 the Company repaid $84 million and $149 million,
respectively, in principal amount of secured notes and $51
million and $492 million, respectively, in principal amount of
debentures prior to maturity.  These obligations were
scheduled to mature at various times from 2000 through 2021.
Extraordinary losses of $9 million and $67 million,
respectively, net of tax benefits of $5 million and $40
million, respectively, were recorded, reflecting amounts paid
in excess of the debt carrying value.

     On April 8, 1997, Air Wis Services, Inc. ("Air Wis"), a
wholly owned subsidiary of UAL, redeemed all $16 million of
its outstanding 7 3/4% convertible debentures at 100% of the
principal amount plus accrued interest.

     During 1997, United issued $674 million in enhanced pass
through certificates to refinance certain owned aircraft and
aircraft under operating leases.  Net proceeds after
refinancing the operating leases was $597 million.

     Also in 1997, the California Statewide Communities
Development Authority (the "Authority") issued $190 million in
special facilities revenue bonds to finance the acquisition
and construction of certain facilities at the Los Angeles
International Airport ("LAX") which United guarantees payment
of under a payment agreement with the Authority.  The bond
proceeds are restricted to expenditures on the LAX facilities
and unspent amounts are classified as other assets in the
balance sheet.

     At December 31, 1997, United had outstanding a total of
$733 million of long-term debt bearing interest rates at 22 to
90 basis points over LIBOR.

     Maturities of long-term debt for each of the four years
after 1998 are:  1999 - $51; 2000 - $53 million; 2001 - $46
million; and 2002 - $563 million.  Various assets, principally
aircraft, having an aggregate book value of $1.457 billion at
December 31, 1997, were pledged as security under various loan
agreements.

(9)  Lease Obligations
- ----------------------
     
     The Company leases aircraft, airport passenger terminal
space, aircraft hangars and related maintenance facilities,
cargo terminals, other airport facilities, real estate, office
and computer equipment and vehicles.

     Future minimum lease payments as of December 31, 1997,
under capital leases (substantially all of which are for
aircraft) and operating leases having initial or remaining
noncancelable lease terms of more than one year are as
follows:


     As of December 31, 1997, United leased 304 aircraft, 62
of which were under capital leases.  These leases have terms
of 4 to 26 years, and expiration dates range from 1998 through
2020.

     In connection with the financing of certain aircraft
accounted for as capital leases, United had on deposit at
December 31, 1997 an aggregate 33 billion yen ($254 million),
107 million German marks ($60 million) and 27 million French
francs ($4 million) in certain banks and had pledged an
irrevocable security interest in such deposits to the aircraft
lessors.  These deposits will be used to pay off an equivalent
amount of recorded capital lease obligations.

     Amounts charged to rent expense, net of minor amounts of
sublease rentals, were $1.416 billion in 1997, $1.424 billion
in 1996 and $1.439 billion in 1995.  Included in 1997 rental
expense was $16 million in contingent rentals, resulting from
changes in interest rates for operating leases under which the
rent payments are based on variable interest rates.

(10)  Company-Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
      Securities of a Subsidiary Trust
      --------------------------------------------------
     
     In December 1996, UAL Corporation Capital Trust I (the
"Trust") issued $75 million of its 13 1/4% Trust Originated
Preferred Securities (the "Preferred Securities") in exchange
for 2,999,304 depositary shares, each representing 1/1000 of
one share of Series B 12 1/4% preferred stock (see Note 11).
Concurrent with the issuance of the Preferred Securities and
the related purchase by UAL of the Trust's common securities,
the Company issued to the Trust $77 million aggregate
principal amount of its 13 1/4% Junior Subordinated Debentures
(the "Debentures") due 2026.  The Debentures are and will be
the sole assets of the Trust.  The interest and other payment
dates on the Debentures correspond to the distribution and
other payment dates on the Preferred Securities.  Upon
maturity or redemption of the Debentures, the Preferred
Securities will be mandatorily redeemed.  The Debentures are
redeemable at UAL's option, in whole or in part, on or after
July 12, 2004, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the
principal amount to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid
interest to the redemption date.  Upon the repayment of the
Debentures, whether at maturity, upon redemption or otherwise,
the proceeds thereof will be applied to redeem the Preferred
Securities.

     There is a full and unconditional guarantee by UAL of the
Trust's obligations under the securities issued by the Trust.
However, the Company's obligations are subordinate and junior
in right of payment to certain other of its indebtedness.  UAL
has the right to defer payments of interest on the Debentures
by extending the interest payment period, at any time, for up
to 20 consecutive quarters.  If interest payments on the
Debentures are so deferred, distributions on the Preferred
Securities will also be deferred.  During any deferral,
distributions will continue to accrue with interest thereon.
In addition, during any such deferral, UAL may not declare or
pay any dividend or other distribution on, or redeem or
purchase, any of its capital stock.

     The transaction resulted in a reduction of approximately
$102 million to paid in capital as the fair value of the
Preferred Securities issued exceeded the carrying value ($75
million) of the exchanged Series B preferred stock.  The
difference between the assigned value of the Preferred
Securities and their redemption value ($27 million) will be
amortized against distributions on the Preferred Securities
over their term.  The fair value of the Preferred Securities
at December 31, 1997 was $106 million.

(11)  Serial Preferred Stock
- ----------------------------
     
     At December 31, 1997, UAL had outstanding 3,267,477
depositary shares, each representing 1/1000 of one share of
Series B 12 1/4% preferred stock, with a liquidation
preference of $25 per depositary share ($25,000 per Series B
preferred share) and a stated capital of $0.01 per Series B
preferred share.  Under its terms, any portion of the Series B
preferred stock or the depositary shares is redeemable for
cash after July 11, 2004, at UAL's option, at the equivalent
of $25 per depositary share, plus accrued dividends.  The
Series B preferred stock is not convertible into any other
securities, has no stated maturity and is not subject to
mandatory redemption.

     The Series B preferred stock ranks senior to all other
preferred and common stock, except the Preferred Securities,
as to receipt of dividends and amounts distributed upon
liquidation.  The Series B preferred stock has voting rights
only to the extent required by law and with respect to charter
amendments that adversely affect the preferred stock or the
creation or issuance of any security ranking senior to the
preferred stock.  Additionally, if dividends are not paid for
six cumulative quarters, the Series B preferred stockholders
are entitled to elect two additional members to the UAL Board
of Directors until all dividends are paid in full.  Pursuant
to UAL's restated certificate of incorporation, UAL is
authorized to issue a total of 50,000 shares of Series B
preferred stock.

     As discussed in Note 10, in December 1996, UAL
Corporation Capital Trust I, a Delaware statutory business
trust controlled by UAL, exchanged mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities of the subsidiary trust for 2,999,304
depositary shares of Series B preferred stock of UAL.

     During 1996 and 1995, UAL repurchased 2,553,110 and
4,259,709 depositary shares, respectively, at an aggregate
cost of $84 million and $131 million, respectively, to be held
in treasury.  In February 1998, UAL repurchased 64,300
depositary shares at an aggregate cost of $2 million to be
held in treasury.

     UAL is authorized to issue up to 15,986,584 additional
shares of serial preferred stock.

(12)  ESOP Preferred Stock
- --------------------------
     
     The following activity related to UAL's outstanding ESOP
preferred stocks (see Note 2 for a description of the ESOPs):


     An aggregate of 17,675,345 shares of Class 1 and Class 2
ESOP Preferred Stock will be issued to employees under the
ESOPs.  Each share of ESOP Preferred Stock is convertible into
four shares of UAL common stock and shares are converted to
common as employees retire or otherwise leave the Company.
The stock has a par value of $0.01 per share and is nonvoting.
The Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock has a liquidation value of
$126.96 per share plus all accrued and unpaid dividends; the
Class 2 does not have a liquidation value.  The Class 1 ESOP
Preferred Stock provides a fixed annual dividend of $8.8872
per share, which ceases on March 31, 2000; the Class 2 does
not pay a fixed dividend.

     Class P, M and S Voting Preferred Stocks were established
to provide the voting power to the employee groups
participating in the ESOPs.  Additional Voting Preferred Stock
is issued as shares of the Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP Preferred
Stock are allocated to employees.  In the aggregate,
17,675,345 shares of Voting Preferred Stock will be issued
through the year 2000.  The Voting Preferred Stock outstanding
at any time commands voting power for approximately 55% of the
vote of all classes of capital stock in all matters requiring
a stockholder vote, other than for the election of members of
the Board of Directors.  The Voting Preferred Stock will
generally continue to represent approximately 55% of the
aggregate voting power until the "Sunset."  The "Sunset" will
occur when the common shares issuable upon conversion of the
outstanding Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock, plus any
common equity (generally common stock issued or issuable at
the time of the recapitalization) and available unissued ESOP
shares held in the ESOPs or any other employee benefit plans
sponsored by the Company for the benefit of its employees
represent, in the aggregate less than 20% of the common equity
and available unissued ESOP shares of the Company.  For
purposes of defining the "Sunset" employee ownership is
approximately 62% at December 31, 1997.  The Voting Preferred
Stock has a par value and liquidation preference of $0.01 per
share.  The stock is not entitled to receive any dividends and
is convertible into .0004 shares of UAL common stock.

     Class Pilot MEC, IAM, SAM and I junior preferred stock
(collectively "Director Preferred Stocks") were established to
effectuate the election of one or more members to UAL's Board
of Directors.  One share each of Class Pilot MEC and Class IAM
junior preferred stock is authorized and issued.  The Company
is authorized to issue ten shares each of Class SAM and Class
I junior preferred stock.  There are three shares of Class SAM
and four shares of Class I issued.  Each of the Director
Preferred Stocks has a par value and liquidation preference of
$0.01 per share.  The stock is not entitled to receive any
dividends and Class I will be redeemed automatically upon the
transfer of the shares to any person not elected to the Board
of Directors or upon the occurrence of the "Sunset."

(13)  Common Stockholders' Equity
- ---------------------------------
     
     Changes in the number of shares of UAL common stock
outstanding during the years ended December 31 were as
follows:


     During 1997, the Company repurchased 2,881,092 shares of
common stock for a total purchase price of $250 million.

(14)  Stock Options and Awards
- ------------------------------
     
     The Company has granted options to purchase common stock
to various officers and employees.  The option price for all
stock options is at least 100% of the fair market value of UAL
common stock at the date of grant.  Options generally vest and
become exercisable in four equal, annual installments
beginning one year after the date of grant, and generally
expire in ten years.

     As a result of the 1994 recapitalization, all outstanding
options became fully vested at the time of the transaction and
the holders of such options became eligible to utilize the
cashless exercise features of stock options.  Under a cashless
exercise, the Company withholds, at the election of the
optionee, from shares that would otherwise be issued upon
exercise, that number of shares having a fair market value
equal to the exercise price and/or related income taxes.  For
outstanding options eligible for cashless exercise, changes in
the market price of the stock are charged to earnings
currently.  The expense recorded for such eligible options was
$14 million for 1997, $15 million in 1996 and $27 million in
1995.

     Stock options which were outstanding at the time of the
recapitalization are exercisable for shares of old common
stock, each of which is in turn converted into two shares of
new common stock and $84.81 in cash upon exercise.  Subsequent
to the recapitalization, the Company granted stock options
which are exercisable for shares of new common stock.

     The Company has also awarded shares of restricted stock
to officers and key employees.  These shares generally vest
over a five-year period and are subject to certain transfer
restrictions and forfeiture under certain circumstances prior
to vesting.  Unearned compensation, representing the fair
market value of the stock at the measurement date for the
award, is amortized to salaries and related costs over the
vesting period.  During 1995, 892,852 shares of restricted
stock were issued from treasury.  No shares were issued in
1996 and 5,000 shares were issued in 1997.  As of December 31,
1997, 434,220 shares were restricted and still nonvested.
Additionally, 309,120 shares were reserved for future awards
under the plan.  In 1997, 1996 and 1995, 25,120, 70,488 and
43,000 shares, respectively, were forfeited and returned to
treasury stock.

     In October 1995, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."  SFAS No. 123
establishes a fair value based method of accounting for stock
options.  The Company has elected to continue using the
intrinsic value based method of accounting prescribed in
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees," as permitted by SFAS No. 123.  Had
compensation cost for awards been determined based on the fair
value at the grant dates consistent with the method of SFAS
No. 123, the Company's net income and earnings per share would
have instead been reported as the pro forma amounts indicated
below:

                                                   

     The weighted-average grant date fair value of restricted
shares issued was $87.44 and $28.88 for shares issued in 1997
and 1995, respectively.  The fair value of each option grant
was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:


     Stock option activity for the past three years was as
follows:




     The following information related to stock options
outstanding as of December 31, 1997:
             

(15)  Retirement Plans
- ----------------------
     
     The Company has various retirement plans which cover
substantially all employees.  Defined benefit plans covering
certain employees (primarily union ground employees) provide a
stated benefit for specified periods of service, while defined
benefit plans for other employees provide benefits based on
employees' years of service and average compensation for a
specified period before retirement.  The Company's goal is to
fully fund the estimated present value of its accumulated
benefit obligation under the plans.  The Company also provides
several defined contribution plans which cover substantially
all U.S. employees who have completed one year of service.
For certain groups of employees (primarily pilots, salaried
employees hired after February 1, 1994 and employees of
Mileage Plus, Inc.), the Company contributes an annual amount
on behalf of each participant, calculated as a percentage of
the participants' earnings or a percentage of the
participants' contributions.

     The following table sets forth the defined benefit plans'
funded status and amounts recognized in the statements of
financial position as of December 31:


     Total pension expense for all retirement plans (including
defined contribution plans) was $229 million in 1997, $252
million in 1996 and $193 million in 1995.

     Plan assets are invested primarily in governmental and
corporate debt instruments and corporate equity securities.

     The net periodic pension cost of defined benefit plans
included the following components:


     Changes in interest rates or rates of inflation may
impact the assumptions used in the valuation of pension
obligations, including discount rates and rates of increase in
compensation, resulting in increases or decreases in United's
pension liability and net periodic pension cost.

(16)  Other Employee Benefits
- -----------------------------
     
     The Company provides certain health care benefits,
primarily in the U.S., to retirees and eligible dependents.
Benefits are generally funded from Company assets on a current
basis, although amounts sufficient to pay claims incurred, but
not yet paid, are held in trust at year-end.  Certain plan
benefits are subject to co-payments, deductibles and other
limits described in the plans and the benefits are reduced
once a retiree becomes eligible for Medicare.  The Company
also provides certain life insurance benefits to retirees.
The assets to fund retiree life insurance benefits are being
held in a deposit trust administration fund with a major
insurance company.  The Company has reserved the right,
subject to collective bargaining agreements, to modify or
terminate the health care and life insurance benefits for both
current and future retirees.

     Information on the plans' funded status, on an aggregate
basis at December 31, follows:


     Net postretirement benefit costs included the following
components:
                                               

     The assumed health care cost trend rates for net paid
claims were 6.9% and 7.4% for 1997 and 1996, respectively,
declining annually to a rate of 4.0% by the year 2001 and
remaining level thereafter.  These rates were driven by
assumed health care cost trend rates for gross covered charges
of 5.5% and 6.0% for 1997 and 1996, respectively, declining
annually to a rate of 4.0% by the year 1999 and remaining
level thereafter.  The effect of a 1% increase in the assumed
health care cost trend rate would increase the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 1997 by $234
million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost
components of net postretirement benefit cost for 1997 by $25
million.

     Changes in interest rates or rates of inflation may
impact the assumptions used in the valuation of postretirement
and postemployment obligations, including discount rates,
resulting in increases or decreases in United's liability and
net periodic cost.

(17)  Financial Instruments and Risk Management
- -----------------------------------------------
     
     See Other Information "Foreign Operations" in
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk ("Item 7A") for a
discussion of the Company's foreign currency and fuel price
risk management activities, and the fair value of all
significant financial instruments.

Credit Exposures of Derivatives
     The Company's theoretical risk in the derivative
financial instruments described in Item 7A is the cost of
replacing the contracts at current market rates in the event
of default by any of the counterparties.  However, the Company
does not anticipate such default as counterparties are
selected based on credit ratings and the relative market
positions with each counterparty are monitored.  Furthermore,
the risk of such default is mitigated by provisions in the
contracts which require either party to post increasing
amounts of collateral as the value of the contract moves
against them, subject to certain thresholds, or through the
use of mutual put options where contracts are terminated at
certain predefined intervals.  Counterparty credit risk is
further minimized by settlements throughout the duration of
the contract.

Financial Guarantees
     Special facility revenue bonds have been issued by
certain municipalities to build or improve airport and
maintenance facilities leased by United.  Under the lease
agreements, United is required to make rental payments in
amounts sufficient to pay the maturing principal and interest
payments on the bonds.  At December 31, 1997, $1.239 billion
principal amount of such bonds was outstanding.  As of
December 31, 1997, UAL and United had jointly guaranteed $35
million of such bonds and United had guaranteed $1.221 billion
of such bonds, including accrued interest.  The payments
required to satisfy these obligations are included in the
future minimum lease payments disclosed in Note 9 "Lease
Obligations".

     Transfers of the tax benefits of accelerated depreciation
and investment tax credits associated with the acquisition of
certain equipment have been made previously by United to
various tax lessors through tax lease transactions.  Proceeds
from tax benefit transfers were recognized as income in the
year the lease transactions were consummated.  The subject
equipment is being depreciated for book purposes.  United has
agreed to indemnify (guaranteed in some cases by UAL) the tax
lessors against loss of such benefits in certain circumstances
and has agreed to indemnify others for loss of tax benefits in
limited circumstances for certain used aircraft purchased by
United subject to previous tax lease transactions.  Certain
tax lessors have required that letters of credit be issued in
their favor by financial institutions as security for United's
indemnity obligations under the leases.  The outstanding
balance of such letters of credit totaled $35 million at
December 31, 1997.  At that date, United had granted mortgages
on aircraft and engines having a total book value of $165
million as security for indemnity obligations under tax leases
and letters of credit.

Concentrations of Credit Risk
     The Company does not believe it is subject to any
significant concentration of credit risk.  Most of the
Company's receivables result from sales of tickets to
individuals through geographically dispersed travel agents,
company outlets or other airlines, often through the use of
major credit cards.  These receivables are short term,
generally being settled shortly after the sale.

(18)  Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Uncertainties
- -----------------------------------------------------------
     
     The Company has certain contingencies resulting from
litigation and claims (including environmental issues)
incident to the ordinary course of business.  Management
believes, after considering a number of factors, including
(but not limited to) the views of legal counsel, the nature of
contingencies to which the Company is subject and its prior
experience, that the ultimate disposition of these
contingencies is not expected to materially affect UAL's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.  UAL
records liabilities for legal and environmental claims against
it in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.  These amounts are recorded based on the Company's
assessments of the likelihood of their eventual settlements.
The amounts of these liabilities could increase in the near
term, based on revisions to estimates relating to the various
claims.

     At December 31, 1997, commitments for the purchase of
property and equipment, principally aircraft, approximated
$5.6 billion, after deducting advance payments.  An estimated
$2.6 billion will be spent in 1998, $1.6 billion in 1999, $0.6
billion in 2000 and $0.8 billion in 2001 and thereafter.  The
major commitments are for the purchase of B777, B747, B767,
B757, A320 and A319 aircraft, which are scheduled to be
delivered through 2002.  The above amounts do not include a
recent order with Airbus Industrie for an additional 10 A319
and 20 A320 aircraft to be delivered through 2001.  The
aircraft included in this latest order are expected to be used
to satisfy growth opportunities, and thus, the Company now
expects its passenger fleet to grow by at lease 30 aircraft by
the year 2002.

     During the fourth quarter, The Boeing Company ("Boeing")
notified United that production problems would delay aircraft
scheduled to be delivered between fourth quarter 1997 and mid-
1999.  Specifically, deliveries on nine B747s, three B757s and
four B767s scheduled for delivery from the fourth quarter of
1997 through mid-1999 will be delayed from one to two months.
United expects to receive compensation from Boeing and also
expects to make schedule adjustments and take other possible
actions to offset the effects of the delays.  As a result, the
Company expects the impact of the announced delivery delays to
be minimal.

     In connection with the construction of the Indianapolis
Maintenance Center, United agreed to spend an aggregate $800
million on capital investments by the year 2001 and employ at
least 7,500 individuals by the year 2004.  In the event such
targets are not reached, United may be required to make
certain payments to the city of Indianapolis and state of
Indiana.

     Approximately 61% of United's employees are represented
by various labor organizations.  In connection with the 1994
employee investment transaction, members of the Air Line
Pilots' Association and the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers entered into labor contracts
with United which become amendable in 2000.  In October 1997,
the Association of Flight Attendants ("AFA") ratified a new
contract, which will remain in effect through 2006.  See Other
Information, "Labor Agreements and Wage Adjustments" in
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations for details.

(19)  Foreign Operations
- ------------------------
     
     Operating authorities in international markets are
governed by bilateral aviation agreements between the U.S. and
foreign countries.  Under generally accepted accounting
principles, ("GAAP"), foreign operations are defined as
operations that exist outside the U.S.  United derives an
insignificant amount of its operating revenues and operating
income from such operations.  However, the Company's results
are significantly impacted by revenue produced from
international flights between the U.S. and foreign
destinations.  Based on allocation guidelines provided by the
U.S. Department of Transportation ("DOT"), which classifies
flights between the U.S. and foreign destinations as part of
each respective foreign entity, and thus, differs from the
definition of foreign operations under GAAP, United reported
the following results by geographic entity to the DOT for each
of the last three years:


     Additionally, United has sizable intangible assets
related to acquisitions of foreign route authorities.  Changes
in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies can lead to
the alteration or termination of existing air service
agreements that could diminish the value of United's
international route authority.


(20)  Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows - Supplemental
      Disclosures
      ---------------------------------------------------
     
     Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information and non-
cash investing and financing activities were as follows:


(21)  Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
- ---------------------------------------------------


     The sum of quarterly earnings per share amounts is not
the same as annual earnings per share amounts because of
changing numbers of shares outstanding.

     During the third quarter of 1997, UAL recognized a pre-
tax gain of $275 million of the sale of its interest in the
Apollo Travel Services Partnership (see Other Information,
"Sale of Affiliate" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations).



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
           ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.


                            PART III
                            --------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Information regarding the
executive officers is included in Part I of this Form 10-K under
the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
            AND MANAGEMENT.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.


                             PART IV
                             -------

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
            ON FORM 8-K.

(a)  1.   Financial Statements.  The financial statements
required by this item are listed in Item 8, "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" herein.

     2.   Financial Statement Schedules.  The financial statement
schedule required by this item is listed below and included in
this report after the signature page hereto.

     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the
     years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

     All other schedules are omitted because they are not
     applicable, not required or the required information is
     shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes
     thereto.
     
     3.   Exhibits.  The exhibits required by this item are
listed in the Exhibit Index which immediately precedes the
exhibits filed with this Form 10-K, and is incorporated herein by
this reference.  Each of Exhibits 10.29 through 10.39 and Exhibits
10.41 and 10.42 listed in the Exhibit Index is a management contract 
or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit 
pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

     Form 8-K dated October 28, 1997 to report a cautionary
statement for purposes of the "Safe Harbor for Forward Looking
Statements" provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act.
     
     Form 8-K dated December 15, 1997 to report a cautionary
statement for purposes of the "Safe Harbor for Forward Looking
Statements" provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act.
     
                           SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on the 26th day of February, 1998.

                         UAL CORPORATION



                         By:  /s/ Gerald Greenwald
                              --------------------
                              Gerald Greenwald
                              Chairman of the Board and
                              Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on the 26th day of
February, 1998 by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated.



/s/ Gerald Greenwald                  /s/ James J. O'Connor
- --------------------                  ---------------------
Gerald Greenwald                      James J. O'Connor
Chairman of the Board and Chief       Director
Executive Officer (principal
executive officer)
                                      
                                      
/s/ John A. Edwardson                 /s/ Deval L. Patrick
- ---------------------                 --------------------
John A. Edwardson                     Deval L. Patrick
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ Duane D. Fitzgerald               /s/ John F. Peterpaul
- -----------------------               ---------------------
Duane D. Fitzgerald                   John F. Peterpaul
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ Michael H. Glawe                  /s/ Paul E. Tierney, Jr.
- --------------------                  ------------------------
Michael H. Glawe                      Paul E. Tierney, Jr.
Director                              Director
                                      

                                      
/s/ Richard D. McCormick              /s/ John K. Van de Kamp
- ------------------------              -----------------------
Richard D. McCormick                  John K. Van de Kamp
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ John F. McGillicuddy              /s/ Paul A. Volcker
- ------------------------              -------------------
John F. McGillicuddy                  Paul A. Volcker
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ Douglas A. Hacker                 
- ---------------------
Douglas A. Hacker                     
Senior Vice President and Chief       
Financial Officer (principal
financial and accounting officer)










                          
                          
                          EXHIBIT INDEX
                          -------------
 
 3.1   Restated Certificate of Incorporation of UAL Corporation
       ("UAL"), as amended (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to UAL's Form
       10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
 3.2   By-laws (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
       quarter ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
       reference).
 
 4.1   Deposit Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994 between UAL
       Corporation and holders from time to time of Depository
       Receipts described herein (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to UAL's
       Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
 4.2   Indenture dated as of December 20, 1996 between UAL
       Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as
       Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to UAL's Form 10-K for the
       year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by
       reference).
 
 4.3   Officer's Certificate relating to UAL's 13-1/4% Junior
       Subordinated Debentures due 2026 (filed as Exhibit 4.3
       to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996
       and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 4.4   Form of UAL's 13-1/4% Junior Subordinated Debenture due
       2026 (filed as Exhibit 4.4 to UAL's Form 10-K for the
       year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by
       reference).
 
 4.5   Guarantee Agreement dated as of December 30, 1996 with
       respect to the 13-1/4% Trust Originated Preferred
       Securities of UAL Corporation Capital Trust I (filed as
       Exhibit 4.5 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
       December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

 4.6   Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of UAL
       Corporation Capital Trust I dated as of December 30,
       1996 (filed as Exhibit 4.6 to UAL's Form 10-K for year
       ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by
       reference).
 
       UAL's indebtedness under any single instrument does not
       exceed 10% of UAL's total assets on a consolidated
       basis.  Copies of such instruments will be furnished to
       the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
 
10.1   Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of
       Recapitalization, dated as of March 25, 1994 (the
       "Recapitalization Agreement"), as amended, among UAL
       Corporation, the Air Line Pilots Association,
       International ("ALPA") and the International Association
       of Machinists and Aerospace Workers ("IAM") (filed as
       Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 8-K dated June
       2, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference; amendment
       thereto filed as Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 8-K dated
       June 29, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.2   Waiver and Agreement, dated as of December 23, 1994, to
       the Recapitalization Agreement among UAL, ALPA and IAM
       (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
       ended December 31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated
       herein by reference).
 
10.3   Third Amendment, dated as of March 15, 1995, to the
       Recapitalization Agreement among UAL, ALPA and IAM
       (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
       ended December 31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated
       herein by reference).
 
10.4   Agreement, dated as of July 16, 1996, pursuant to
       Section 1.6(q) of the Recapitalization Agreement among
       UAL, ALPA and IAM (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form
       10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.5   UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan, effective
       as of July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form
       10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.6   First Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
       Ownership Plan, dated December 28, 1994 (filed as
       Exhibit 10.39 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
       December 31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated herein
       by reference).
 
10.7   Second Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
       Ownership Plan, dated as of August 17, 1995 (filed as
       Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
       September 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
       reference).
 
10.8   Third Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
       Ownership Plan, dated as of December 28, 1995 (filed as
       Exhibit 10.7 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
       December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.9   Fourth Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
       Ownership Plan, dated as of July 16, 1996 (filed as
       Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
       June 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.10  Fifth Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
       Ownership Plan, dated as of December 31, 1996 (filed as
       Exhibit 10.10 of UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
       December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.11  Sixth Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
       Ownership Plan, dated as of August 11, 1997 (filed as
       Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
       September 30, 1997, as amended, and incorporated herein
       by reference).
 
10.12  UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust
       Agreement between UAL Corporation and State Street Bank
       and Trust Company ("State Street"), effective July 12,
       1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
       quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
       by reference).
 
10.13  UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP, effective as of July
       12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
       the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated
       herein by reference).
 
10.14  First Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
       dated February 22, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's
       Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995, as
       amended, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.15  Second Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
       dated as of August 17, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
       UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995
       and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.16  Third Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
       dated as of December 28, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to
       UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.17  Fourth Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
       dated as of July 16, 1996 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
       UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.18  Fifth Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
       dated as of December 31, 1996 (filed as Exhibit 10.17 to
       UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.19  Sixth Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
       dated as of August 11, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.4 of
       UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
       1997, as amended, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.20  UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP Trust Agreement
       between UAL Corporation and State Street, effective July
       12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
       the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated
       herein by reference).
 
10.21  Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March
       25, 1994, between UAL Corporation and State Street
       (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
       quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
       by reference).
 
10.22  Amendment No. 1 to Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement,
       dated as of June 2, 1994, between UAL Corporation and
       State Street (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to UAL's Form 10-Q
       for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.23  Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of August
       11, 1995, between UAL Corporation and State Street
       (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
       ended December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by
       reference).
 
10.24  Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of August
       12, 1996, between UAL Corporation and State Street
       (filed as Exhibit 10.22 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
       ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by
       reference).
 
10.25  Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of August
       12, 1997, between UAL Corporation and State Street Bank
       and Trust Company.
 
10.26  Class I Junior Preferred Stockholders' Agreement, dated
       as of June 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to UAL's
       Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.27  Class SAM Preferred Stockholders' Agreement, dated as of
       July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to UAL's Form 10-Q
       for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.28  First Refusal Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1994, as
       amended (filed as Exhibit 10.25 to UAL's Form 10-K for
       the year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein
       by reference).
 
10.29  UAL Corporation 1981 Incentive Stock Plan (filed as
       Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
       March 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.30  UAL Corporation 1988 Restricted Stock Plan (filed as
       Exhibit 10.22 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
       December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.31  UAL Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended
       September 30, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to  UAL's Form
       10-Q/A for the quarter ended September 30, 1997 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.32  Description of Complimentary Travel and Cargo Carriage
       Benefits for UAL Directors (filed as Exhibit 10.29 to
       UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.33  UAL Corporation 1995 Directors Plan, as amended June 26,
       1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 10-Q for the
       quarter ended September 30, 1997, as amended, and
       incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.34  Employment Agreement between UAL Corporation and Gerald
       Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
       the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
       by reference).
 
10.35  Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement between UAL
       Corporation and Gerald Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.6
       to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994
       and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.36  Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between UAL
       Corporation and Gerald Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.7
       to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994
       and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.37  Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between UAL
       Corporation and Gerald Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.9
       to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994
       and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.38  Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between UAL
       Corporation and John A. Edwardson (filed as Exhibit
       10.10 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
       1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.39  Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between UAL
       Corporation and Stuart I. Oran (filed as Exhibit 10.12
       to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994
       and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.40  United Supplemental Retirement Plan (filed as Exhibit
       10.42 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
       1992, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
10.41  Description of Officer Benefits.  
 
10.42  Agreement, dated as of March 1, 1997, between United Air
       Lines, Inc. and William P. Hobgood.
 
 11    Calculation of fully diluted net earnings per share.
 
 12.1  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
 
 12.2  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
       Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.
 
 21    List of Registrant's subsidiaries (filed as Exhibit 21
       to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996
       and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 23    Consent of Independent Public Accountants.
 
 27    Financial Data Schedule.
 

