
10-K405





          UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                       Washington, D.C. 20549

                              FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999
                                 OR
[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from__________to__________

Commission File No. 1-6033

                           UAL CORPORATION
       ------------------------------------------------------
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                         36-2675207
 ------------------------------           -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of            (IRS Employer
 incorporation or organization)           Identification No.)

Location: 1200 East Algonquin Road, Elk Grove Township, Illinois 60007
Mailing Address: P. O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois              60666
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                     (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code (847) 700-4000
                                                   --------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                            NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
     TITLE OF EACH CLASS                     ON WHICH REGISTERED
     -------------------                    ---------------------

     Common Stock, $.01 par value           New York, Chicago and
                                            Pacific Stock Exchanges

     Depositary Shares each representing
     1/1,000 of a share of Series B
     Preferred Stock, without par value     New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section  12 (g) of the Act:

                                  NONE
                                  ----
   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes    X        No
                       -------         -------

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant was $2,396,398,415 as of March 1, 2000.  The number of
shares of common stock outstanding as of March 1, 2000 was
49,792,290.

                 Documents Incorporated by Reference

Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain
information from the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 18, 2000.


                               PART I
                               ------

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

     UAL Corporation ("UAL" or the "Company") was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968. The world
headquarters of the Company are located at 1200 East Algonquin Road,
Elk Grove Township, Illinois 60007.  The Company's mailing address is
P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois 60666.  The telephone number for
the Company is (847) 700-4000.

     The Company is a holding company and its principal subsidiary is
United Air Lines, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("United"), which is
wholly owned.  United accounted for virtually all of the Company's
revenues and expenses in 1999.  United is a major commercial air
transportation company, engaged in the transportation of persons,
property and mail throughout the United States and abroad.

Airline Operations
- ------------------

     During 1999, United carried, on average, more than 243,000
passengers per day and flew more than 125 billion revenue passenger
miles.  It is the world's largest airline as measured by revenue
passenger miles flown, providing passenger service in 26 countries.

     United operates a global network, which encompasses major cities
such as Chicago, Denver, Los Angeles, New York, Miami, San Francisco,
Washington-Dulles, D.C., in the U.S., and Buenos Aires, Frankfurt,
Hong Kong, London, Mexico City, Paris, Sao Paulo, Sydney and Tokyo in
the international markets.  United's network, supplemented with
strategic airline alliances, provides comprehensive transportation
service within North America (the domestic segment), within Latin
America, Europe, and the Pacific (the international segment), and
between these two segments.  Operating revenues attributed to
United's North America segment were approximately $12.5 billion in
1999, $12.0 billion in 1998, and $11.2 billion in 1997.  Operating
revenues attributed to United's international segment were
approximately $5.5 billion in 1999, $5.5 billion in 1998, and $6.1
billion in 1997.

     Since October 1994, United has operated a service, United
Shuttle(R),within its domestic segment.  This service is designed to
provide both affordable and profitable air service in highly
competitive markets, as well as critical feed traffic.  United
Shuttle is principally concentrated on the West Coast and in Denver.
United Shuttle offers approximately 500 daily flights on 30 routes
among 22 cities in the western United States.

     Pacific.  Via its Tokyo hub, United provides passenger service
between its U.S. gateway cities (Chicago, Honolulu, Los Angeles, New
York, San Francisco and Seattle) and the Asian cities of Bangkok,
Beijing, Hong Kong, Seoul, Shanghai and Singapore.  United also
provides nonstop service between Hong Kong and each of Chicago, Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Singapore, and Tokyo; between San Francisco
and each of Osaka, Sydney and Taipei; and between Los Angeles and
each of Auckland, Melbourne and Sydney.  In February 2000, United
replaced its intra-Asian service between Hong Kong and Bangkok with
service between Hong Kong and Singapore.  A U.S. - China agreement in
1999 granted United new route authorities, allowing United its first-
ever non-stop flights to China.  In April 2000, United plans to add
non-stop service between San Francisco and Shanghai and, in June
2000, Beijing, replacing Tokyo - Beijing service.  United will also
add non-stop service between San Francisco and Seoul, Korea in April
2000.

     The air services agreement between the U.S. and Japan provides
an unlimited number of frequencies to certain carriers, including
United.  United also holds significant traffic rights beyond Japan.
These rights will allow United to add service from Japan to other
Asian points as regulatory, competitive and economic conditions
warrant.

     In 1999, United was the leading U.S. carrier in the Pacific in
terms of transpacific available seat miles.  United's Pacific
operations accounted for 14.9 % of United's revenues in 1999.

     Atlantic.  Washington-Dulles is United's primary gateway to
Europe, serving Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, London, Milan,
Munich, and Paris.  United also provides nonstop passenger service
between six other U.S. cities and London, as well as service between
London and each of Brussels and Amsterdam; nonstop service between
Paris and each of Chicago and San Francisco; and nonstop service
between Chicago and each of Dusseldorf and Frankfurt.  New nonstop
service between Los Angeles and Paris will begin in April 2000, and
new service between San Francisco and Frankfurt will begin in June
2000.  In 1999, United's Atlantic operations accounted for 10.9 % of
United's revenues.

     The European Commission's ("EC") investigation into
transatlantic alliances, such as the alliance between United,
Lufthansa, and SAS, is still on-going.  The former Commission team
investigating the alliance proposed certain conditions, such as
frequency reductions, slot forfeitures, prohibitions on combining
frequent flyer programs, and restrictions on display screens of
computer reservation systems, which, if implemented, could impair the
efficiency of United's alliance with Lufthansa and SAS.  A new EC
team is now in place following the resignation en masse of the former
Commission, but it has not yet given a clear indication of its
current position on these alliances.

     In addition, the EC has issued a consultation paper regarding a
potential comprehensive passengers' bill of rights.  United has filed
comments with the EC regarding the consultation paper.  It is too
early to determine if any regulations will result from the
consultation paper, or if such regulations will have any material
impact upon United.

     Latin America.  During 1999, United's primary gateway was Miami,
providing passenger service between Miami and each of Buenos Aires,
Caracas, Lima, Montevideo (one stop), Rio de Janeiro, Santiago and
Sao Paolo.  United also provided service between Los Angeles and each
of Guatemala City, Mexico City, and San Salvador; between New York
and each of Buenos Aires, Sao Paolo, and San Juan; between Chicago
and each of Buenos Aires, Mexico City, San Juan, St. Thomas, and Sao
Paolo; between Mexico City and each of San Francisco and Washington
Dulles; and between Washington-Dulles and St. Thomas.  United also
provides service between San Jose, Costa Rica and each of Mexico City
and Guatemala City.  New York - Caracas service was discontinued
during 1999 and effective March 3, 2000, service to Lima was
discontinued.  In 1999, United's Latin America operations accounted
for 4.4 % of United's revenues.

     Financial information relative to the Company's operating
segments can be found in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in this Form 10-K.

     United Cargo.  In 1999, United Cargo generated over $900 million
in freight and mail revenue, despite the fact that during the first
six months of the year, all four of its dedicated DC10-30 freighter
aircraft underwent heavy maintenance visits, for an aggregate of 151
days.  United continued to carry the leading market share of its
largest customer, the U.S. Postal Service, of all U.S. combination
carriers.

     During 1999, United Cargo introduced a premium express service,
TD.Guaranteed(sm), designed to serve the growing world market for
highly reliable, time definite shipments.  A United Cargo website was
also launched, providing among other things immediate access to
flight information, booking capability, real-time tracking, and
tracing updates.  Over the next three years, significant investments
to upgrade cargo facilities, both domestically and internationally,
are expected to be made, such as new facilities in Los Angeles and
Miami to support growing cargo activity in the Pacific and Latin
America.

     United's Premier Partner(sm) Program is being enhanced for 2000
to allow for improved incentives to key freight forwarders.  The
Premier Partner program offers select freight forwarders preferred
handling of cargo shipments, and provides recognition and rewards for
their loyalty.  The goal is to develop a partnership with these
customers, while increasing the revenue they generate.

     Fuel.  Changes in fuel prices are industry-wide occurrences that
benefit or harm United's competitors as well as United, although fuel-
hedging activities may affect the degree to which fuel-price changes
affect individual companies.  To assure adequate supplies of fuel and
to provide a measure of control over fuel costs, United ships fuel on
major pipelines and stores fuel close to its major hub locations.

     United's results of operations are significantly affected by the
price and availability of jet fuel.  It is estimated that, absent
hedging, every $.01 change in the average annual price-per-gallon of
jet fuel causes a change of approximately $31 million in United's
annual fuel costs.  The average price per gallon of jet fuel in 1999
decreased 2%, as compared to the previous year.  But in 2000, fuel
costs have been rising sharply, prompting airlines, United included,
to impose a fuel surcharge on the price of passenger tickets.

     The impact of rising fuel costs is somewhat tempered by United's
fuel hedging program.  United pursues an options based strategy in
which the upside is retained while the downside is eliminated.  At
the end of 1999, 75% of United's fuel exposure was hedged, but the
goal is for fuel exposure in 2000 to be 100% hedged by the end of the
first quarter.

     Insurance.  United carries liability insurance of a type
customary in the air transportation industry, in amounts which it
deems adequate, covering passenger liability, public liability and
property damage liability.  The amount recoverable by United under
aircraft-hull insurance covering all damage to its aircraft is not
subject to any deductible amount in the event of a total loss.


Marketing Strategy
- ------------------

     Besides offering convenient scheduling throughout its domestic
and international segments, United seeks to attract high yield
customers and create customer preference by providing a comprehensive
network, an attractive frequent-flyer program, and enhanced service
initiatives.

     Alliances.  United has formed bilateral alliances with other
airlines to provide its customers more choices and to participate
worldwide in markets that it cannot serve directly for commercial or
governmental reasons.  An alliance is a collaborative marketing
arrangement between carriers which can include joint frequent flyer
participation, code-sharing of flight operations, coordination of
reservations, baggage handling, and flight schedules, and other
resource sharing activities.  "Code-sharing" is an agreement under
which a carrier's flights can be marketed under the two-letter
airline designator code of another carrier.  Through an alliance,
carriers can provide their customers a seamless global travel network
under their own airline code.   United now participates in a
multilateral alliance, the Star Alliance(TM).

     The Star Alliance is an integrated worldwide transport network,
which provides customers with global recognition and a wide range of
other benefits.  Collectively, the Star Alliance carriers served more
than 792 destinations in over 112 countries during 1999.  The Star
Alliance should enable its member carriers to more effectively
compete with other worldwide alliances.

     In addition to existing members United, Lufthansa, Air Canada,
SAS, Thai Airways, and Varig, the Star Alliance welcomed several new
carriers in 1999, including Air New Zealand, Ansett Australia, and
All Nippon Airways.  In 2000, the Star Alliance will grow to include
Mexicana, Singapore Airways, the Austrian Airlines Group and British
Midland. United holds integrated antitrust immunity with Lufthansa
and SAS, and bilateral immunity with Air Canada.

     Other bilateral alliance air carriers include Spanair, Aeromar,
ALM Antillean, Aloha, Cayman Airways, Continental Connection,
Emirates, Saudi Arabian Airlines, and TW Express.

     In addition, United has a marketing program in North America
known as the United Expressr, under which independent regional
carriers, utilizing turboprop equipment and regional jets, feed
United's major airports and international gateways. The carriers in
the United Express program provide service to United at 182 airports.

     Frequent Flyer Program.  United established the Mileage Plus(R)
frequent flyer program to develop and retain passenger loyalty by
offering awards and services to frequent travelers.  Over 38 million
members have enrolled in Mileage Plus since it was started in 1981.
Mileage Plus members earn mileage credit for flights on United,
United Shuttle, United Express, the Star Alliance carriers and
certain other airlines which participate in the program. Miles can
also be earned by utilizing the goods and services of other program
participants, such as hotels, car rental companies, bank credit card
issuers, and a variety of other businesses.  Mileage credits can be
redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel awards on United and
other participating airlines, or, to a limited extent, other travel
and non-travel industry awards.

     Travel awards can be redeemed at the "Standard" level for any
unsold seat on any United flight to every destination served by
United.  Redemption at the "Saver" award level, however, is
restricted with blackout dates and capacity controlled inventory,
thereby limiting the use of Saver awards on certain flights.

     When a travel award level is attained, liability is recorded for
the incremental costs of providing travel, based on expected
redemptions.  United's incremental costs include the additional costs
of providing service to the award recipient, such as fuel, meal,
personnel and ticketing costs, for what would otherwise be a vacant
seat.  The incremental costs do not include any contribution to
overhead or profit.

     In August 1999, the Mileage Plus program changed its mileage
expiration policy so that miles will no longer expire, provided a
member earns or redeems any amount of miles at least once every 36
months.  At December 31, 1999, the estimated number of outstanding
awards was approximately 7.0 million, as compared with 6.1 million at
the end of the prior year.  United estimates that 5.8 million of such
awards will ultimately be redeemed and, accordingly, has recorded a
liability amounting to $175 million.  Based on historical data, the
difference between the awards expected to be redeemed and the total
awards outstanding arises because:  (1) some awards will never be
redeemed, (2) some will be redeemed for non-travel benefits, and (3)
some will be redeemed on partner carriers.

     In 1999, 2.24 million Mileage Plus travel awards were used on
United.  This number represents the number of free awards actually
flown in 1999 and not the number of seats that were allocated to
award travel.  In 1998, 2.13 million awards were used, while 1.82
million awards were used in 1997.  Such awards represented 8.7% of
United's total revenue passenger miles in 1999, 8.6% in 1998, and
7.7% in 1997.  These low percentages, as well as passengers'
preference for the more restricted Saver awards, keep displacement,
if any, of revenue passengers by users of Mileage Plus awards to a
minimum.  Free award seats flown on United represent 66% of the total
awards issued of which 83% are used for travel within the U.S. and
Canada.  In addition to the awards issued for travel on United,
approximately 10% of the total awards issued are used for travel on
partner airlines.

     Economy Plus(sm).  United announced in August 1999 the
reconfiguration of the first six to eleven rows of the United Economy
cabins in its aircraft serving the domestic market, thereby providing
four to five additional inches of legroom for customers sitting in
the reconfigured rows. The number of seats in Economy Plus varies
depending on the aircraft type.  This initiative is designed to serve
as recognition for United's Premier(R) frequent-flyer and full-fare
United Economy customers, many of whom often travel in the United
Economy cabin, and to increase their satisfaction with United.
United is the first U.S. airline to offer additional legroom to its
domestic customers.  Approximately 450 aircraft will have been
reconfigured with Economy Plus by March 2000.

     Electronic Commerce.  While airlines continue to use computer
reservation systems ("CRS") to book travel, the cost conscious
leisure passengers, as well as the mid-market and corporate
consumers, are increasingly turning to online avenues to meet their
travel needs.  Hence, United, as well as the airline industry in
general, is using e-commerce to strengthen and enhance its market
position. United added websites to capture new market segments, while
reducing the cost of booking transportation.  United continued to
build its internet network in 1999 by establishing and/or expanding
its partnerships with companies such as GetThere.com, BuyTravel.com,
and Priceline.com.  United also announced in November 1999 that it
had formed a partnership with other major U.S. air carriers to form a
new independently owned travel website, which will be the first multi-
airline travel portal.

     On January 13, 2000, United unveiled plans to launch an e-
commerce subsidiary that will be dedicated to maximizing the sale of
travel products over the Internet and Internet enabled-devices.  By
dedicating resources and employees to e-commerce, United expects the
new e-commerce enterprise to focus on managing and growing its suite
of customer-focused e-commerce and e-service products.  An e-commerce
division, consisting of a cross-functional team of nearly 70
employees from United's marketing and technical disciplines, was
initially created; ultimately, this group will be transferred to the
new subsidiary.  This e-commerce unit will use technology and the
Internet to develop and increase lower-cost distribution channels and
to develop new customer interfaces for the purpose of enhancing
customer service opportunities. By establishing the e-commerce unit
now, United will be in a better position to further capitalize on
distribution cost savings and to enhance its value proposition to its
customers.

     Our United Commitment(sm).  To renew its commitment to improve key
areas of customer satisfaction and as part of an industry-wide,
voluntary initiative, United unveiled its comprehensive customer
service plan, Our United Commitment, in September 1999.  Our United
Commitment addresses issues identified by United's frequent flyer
customers as being most important to them, such as improved
communication, increased information throughout the travel
experience, more efficient baggage handling and greater
responsiveness to customer inquiries.  United began deploying Our
United Commitment in December 1999 after training nearly 24,000
customer service agents, reservation agents and United Express
partners on the implementation of the plan.  The company plans to
train all employees who directly work with customers.


Industry Conditions
- -------------------

     Seasonality.  Air travel business is subject to seasonal
fluctuations.  United's first- and fourth-quarter results normally
are affected by reduced travel demand in the fall and winter, and
United's operations are often affected adversely by winter weather.
Thus, operating results for the Company are generally better in the
second and third quarters.  The fourth quarter of 1999 was also
adversely affected by world-wide public fear of the potentially
adverse impact of the "Y2K" problem on flight- related computer
systems.

     Competition.  The airline industry is highly competitive.  In
domestic markets, new and existing carriers are free to initiate
service on any route.  United's domestic competitors include all of
the other major U.S. airlines as well as regional carriers, some of
which have lower cost structures than United.

     In its international service, United competes not only with U.S.
carriers but also with foreign carriers, including national flag
carriers, which in certain instances enjoy forms of governmental
support not available to U.S. carriers.  Competition on certain
international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental
regulations (see "Government Regulation").  United has advantages
over foreign air carriers in the United States because of its ability
to generate U.S. origin-destination traffic from its integrated
domestic route systems, and because foreign carriers are prohibited
by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points (known
as cabotage) in the United States.  United experiences comparable
restrictions in foreign countries.

     In addition, U.S. carriers are often constrained from carrying
passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities
due to limitations in air service agreements or restrictions imposed
unilaterally by foreign governments.  To compensate for these
structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into
alliances and marketing arrangements which allow the carriers to
provide feed to each others' flights.  (See "Marketing Strategy -
Alliances")

     In 1998, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) proposed
its "Statement of Enforcement Policy Regarding Unfair and
Exclusionary Conduct."  This proposal (Competition Guidelines) was in
response to alleged high airfares and complaints of predatory
activities by major carriers against new entrants.  Competition
Guidelines would have injected government regulation into carrier
decisions on pricing and capacity.  With Congressional and
Presidential elections slated for November of 2000, it is unclear
whether the DOT will issue final guidelines in 2000 because of their
controversial nature.

     Distribution Channels.  The overwhelming majority of United's
airline inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional
channels of travel agencies and computer reservation systems (CRS).
United's Apollo reservation system is hosted by Galileo
International, a CRS in which United holds approximately a 15% equity
interest.  In December 1999, United and Galileo signed a new five
year agreement which provides, among other things, for joint sales
force initiatives, extension of the hosting of United's reservation
system, and significant increases in Galileo resources dedicated to
supporting the hosted services.

     In recent years, the airline industry has initiated cuts in
travel agency commissions in an effort to control distribution costs.
In October 1999, United prompted a restructuring of base travel
agency commissions for tickets purchased in the U.S. and Canada for
all domestic and international travel by reducing the commission rate
to 5% and capping commissions at $50 for domestic travel and $100 for
international travel.

     The use of electronic distribution systems also provides an
important tool for lowering costs and expanding United's reach to
potential customers.  (See "Marketing Strategy -- Electronic
Commerce.")


Government Regulation
- ---------------------

     General.  All carriers engaged in air transportation in the
United States are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of
Transportation ("DOT").  The DOT has authority to: issue certificates
of public convenience and necessity for domestic air transportation
and, through the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"), air-carrier
operating certificates; authorize the provision of foreign air
transportation by U.S. carriers; prohibit unjust discrimination;
prescribe forms of accounts and require reports from air carriers;
regulate methods of competition, including the provision and use of
computerized reservation systems; and administer regulations
providing for consumer protection, including regulations governing
the accessibility of air transportation facilities for handicapped
individuals.  United holds certificates of public convenience and
necessity, as well as air-carrier operating certificates, and
therefore is subject to DOT regulations.  The FAA administers the
U.S. air traffic control system and oversees aviation safety issues.

     United's operations require licenses issued by the aviation
authorities of the foreign countries that United serves.  Foreign
aviation authorities may from time to time impose a greater degree of
economic regulation than exists with respect to United's domestic
operations. United's ability to serve some international markets and
its expansion into many of these markets are presently restricted by
lack of aviation agreements to allow such service or, in some cases,
by the restrictive terms of such agreements.

     In connection with its international services, United is
required to make regular filings with the DOT and to observe tariffs
establishing the fares charged and the rules governing the
transportation provided.  In certain cases, fares and schedules
require the approval of the relevant foreign governments.  Shifts in
United States or foreign government aviation policies can lead to the
alteration or termination of existing air service agreements between
the U.S. and other governments, and could diminish the value of
United's international route authority.  United's operating rights
under the air services agreements may not be preservable in such
cases.

     Airport Access.  Take-off and landing rights ("slots") at
Chicago O'Hare International, New York John F. Kennedy International,
New York LaGuardia and Washington Reagan National airports are
limited by the "high density traffic rule."  Under this rule, slots
may be bought, sold or traded.  The DOT, however, can require
carriers to relinquish slots for reallocation if they fail to meet
certain minimum-use standards.

     For the past few years, the DOT has been confiscating slots from
incumbent carriers at Chicago O'Hare, including United, to provide
more opportunities for foreign carriers. United holds a sufficient
number of slots at airports subject to the high-density rule, but its
ability to expand could be constrained if sufficient additional slots
are not available on satisfactory terms.

     Throughout 1999, negotiations continued in Congress over
legislation to lift the high density rule at Chicago O'Hare and New
York City's LaGuardia and JFK airports.  The proposed legislation
calls for the abolishment of the rule at O'Hare by 2002 and by 2007
for the New York City airports.  In the interim, slot exemptions
would be available to new entrants and carriers providing service to
small and non-hub airports.  On March 5, 2000, Congressional
negotiators from the House and Senate announced an agreement to
eliminate the high density rule.  If the agreed legislation is
enacted, exemptions to the rule for some international flights and
service to smaller communities could be in place as early as May
2000.

     United currently has a sufficient number of leased gates and
other airport facilities, but expansion by United may be constrained
at certain airports by insufficient availability of gates on
attractive terms or other factors, such as noise restrictions.

     Safety.  The FAA has regulatory jurisdiction over flight
operations generally, including equipment, ground facilities,
maintenance, communications and other matters.  United's aircraft and
engines are maintained in accordance with the standards and
procedures recommended and approved by the manufacturers and the FAA.

     From time to time, the FAA issues airworthiness directives
("ADs") which require air carriers to undertake inspections and to
make unscheduled modifications and improvements on aircraft, engines
and related components and parts.  The ADs sometimes cause United to
incur substantial, unplanned expense when aircraft or engines are
removed from service prematurely in order to undergo mandated
inspections or modifications.  The issuance of any particular AD may
have a greater or lesser impact on United, compared to its
competitors, depending upon the equipment covered by the directive.
Civil and criminal sanctions may be assessed for not complying with
the ADs.

     The DOT announced in 1999 a new plan to require U.S. carriers to
establish DOT approved programs for auditing the safety and security
of their foreign code-share partners.  The DOT has yet to announce
details of the program, but at a minimum, the program will require
compliance with the standards of the International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO).  Safety audits must be conducted on both
prospective and on-going code-share partners.  The FAA will review
the audits and make recommendations to the DOT.  The Air Transport
Association, an industry organization to which United belongs, and
the DOT have signed a Memorandum of Understanding, setting out
procedures for auditing the safety of code-share partners that carry
Department of Defense personnel.  These procedures may be a starting
point for auditing foreign code-share partners under the new DOT
regime.

     Environmental Regulations.  By December 31, 1999, United met
Stage 3 requirements by retiring some Stage 2 aircraft and replacing
them with newer Stage 3 aircraft, and by retrofitting the remaining
Stage 2 aircraft with special equipment (known in the industry as
"hushkits") or by restricting their takeoff gross weight.  The cost
to do so has been minimal as most of the hushkits were acquired
through an exchange program with Federal Express.

     United operates a number of underground and above-ground storage
tanks throughout its system.  They are used for the storage of fuels
and deicing fluids.  United has been identified as a potentially
responsible party in some state and federal recovery actions
involving soil and ground water contamination.  The Company has been
working with the relevant government agencies to resolve the issues
and believes they will be resolved without material adverse effect on
the Company.

     Other Government Matters.  Other federal agencies with
jurisdiction over certain aspects of United's operations include the
Department of Justice (Antitrust Division and Immigration and
Naturalization Service); the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission;
the Department of Labor (Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, and Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs of
the Employment Standards Administration); the National Mediation
Board; the National Transportation Safety Board; the Treasury
Department (U.S. Customs Service, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
Firearms, and the Internal Revenue Service); the Federal
Communications Commission (use of radio facilities by aircraft); and
the United States Postal Service (carriage of domestic and
international mail).  United is also subject to varying degrees of
regulation by foreign governments.  In time of war or certain other
national emergencies, the U.S. government may require United to
provide airlift services under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program.


Employees - Labor Matters
- -------------------------

     At December 31, 1999, the Company and its subsidiaries had more
than 100,000 employees.  Approximately 79 % of United's employees are
represented by various labor organizations.

     The employee groups, number of employees, labor organization and
current contract status for each of United's major collective
bargaining groups as of December 31, 1999 are as follows:

                              Number of                    Contract Open
       Employee Group         Employees      Union         for Amendment
       --------------         ---------      -----         -------------

       Pilots                 9,612          ALPA          April 12, 2000
       Flight Attendants      23,578         AFA           March 1, 2006
       Mechanics              12,881         IAM           July  12, 2000
       Ramp & Cabin
       Service                13,335         IAM           July  12, 2000
       Passenger Service      19,950         IAM           July  12, 2000


Corporate Governance and the ESOPs
- ----------------------------------

     Background.  In July 1994, the stockholders of UAL approved a
plan of recapitalization that provided an approximately 55% equity
and voting interest in UAL to certain employees of United, in
exchange for wage concessions and work-rule changes.  The employees'
equity interest is being allocated to individual employee accounts
through the year 2000 under Employee Stock Ownership Plans ("ESOPs")
which were created as part of the recapitalization.  The entire ESOP
voting interest is voted by the ESOP trustee at the direction of, and
on behalf of, the employees participating in the ESOPs.

     As part of the recapitalization, the Company's stockholders
approved an elaborate governance structure, which is contained
principally in the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation
("UAL Charter") and the ESOPs.  Among other matters, the UAL Charter
provides that the Company's Board of Directors is to consist of five
public directors, four independent directors, and three employee
directors who are appointed by different classes of stockholders.
(See the Company's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Shareholders for information concerning the processes for electing
the directors and for Board committee requirements.)  A number of
special shareholder and Board voting requirements were also
established, as summarized below.

     Special Voting.  In specified circumstances ("Extraordinary
Matters"), actions by UAL or United require approval of
either (a) 75% of the entire Board, including at least one union
director, or (b) 75% of the voting stock present at a stockholder
meeting.  "Extraordinary Matters" include certain business
transactions outside the ordinary course of business, significant
asset dispositions, and most issuances of equity securities.  Most
issuances of equity securities are also subject to a first refusal
agreement in favor of employees participating in the ESOPs.

     Other special voting requirements apply to amendments to the UAL
Charter and certain bylaws, repurchases of common stock, stock sales
to employee benefit plans, and business transactions with labor.

     In the case of a merger or Control Transaction (defined below)
that involves an Uninstructed Trustee Action (defined below), any
required stockholder approval must also include at least a majority
of the votes represented by all outstanding shares of the Director
Preferred Stocks (defined below), the Common Stock and such other
classes and series of stock that vote together with the Common Stock
as a single class ("Single Class Voting").

     "Sunset."  The Voting Preferred Stock (see Item 8, Note 13, to
Consolidated Financial Statements) outstanding at any time commands
voting power for approximately 55% of the vote of all classes of
capital stock in all matters requiring a stockholder vote, other than
the election of members of the Board of Directors.  The Voting
Preferred Stock will generally continue to represent approximately
55% of the aggregate voting power until Sunset, even though the
Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the ESOP stock may represent
less than 55% of the fully diluted Common Stock of the Company.
Sunset will occur when the common shares issuable upon conversion of
Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock (see Item 8, Note 13, to the
Consolidated Financial Statements), plus any common equity (generally
common stock issued or issuable at the time of the recapitalization)
held by any other Company sponsored employee benefit plans, plus any
available unissued ESOP shares held in the ESOPs, equal, in the
aggregate, less than 20% of the common equity and available unissued
ESOP shares of the Company.

     At Sunset, the UAL Charter provides that the unique governance
and voting provisions will expire, except that (i) employee group
representatives can be expected to continue to have the right to
elect three directors indefinitely and (ii) as discussed below, the
voting rights of Director Preferred Stock may continue until July 12,
2010 if Sunset occurs for specified reasons prior to that date.  For
purposes of measuring the Sunset, employee ownership was
approximately 64.41% at December 31, 1999.

     Control Transactions.  A "Control Transaction" is a tender or
exchange offer, or other opportunity to dispose of or convert at
least 3% of UAL common stock, preferred stock convertible into common
stock, and Voting Preferred Stocks, or any transaction or series of
related transactions in which any person or group acquires or seeks
to acquire control of the Company or of all or substantially all of
the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries.  In a Control
Transaction, ESOP participants are entitled to instruct the ESOP
trustee as to whether to tender, sell, convert or otherwise dispose
of shares allocated to their accounts under the ESOP, and current
employees who are ESOP participants may give the same instructions
for ESOP shares that have been issued, but not yet allocated to
participants.  Shares held by the Supplemental ESOP will be tendered
or directed by the Supplemental ESOP Committee.

     ESOP Investments.  The ESOP is required to be invested 100% in
UAL or United common or convertible preferred stock.  Limited
diversification is permitted beginning in 2004.  If a Control
Transaction results in the sale or exchange of any shares held by the
ESOPs, the proceeds will be used to acquire, to the extent possible,
shares of common stock or convertible preferred stock of UAL, an
affiliated company, or successor employer, that qualify as "employer
securities" under Internal Revenue Code Section 409(l).  The shares
must be issued by a company that meets the requirements of Section
12B of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and, if the
issuer is not UAL or United, that has a Moody's senior long-term debt
rating equal to or better than UAL and United at such time.  If such
securities cannot be acquired, then the Company will make appropriate
arrangements reasonably satisfactory to ALPA and the IAM to protect
the interests of the participants.

     Uninstructed Trustee Actions.  An "Uninstructed Trustee Action"
refers to situations in which the ESOP trustee adopts a course of
action without obtaining instructions from the ESOP participants, or
disregards their instructions, including situations involving Control
Transactions.  Under specific circumstances, this action can cause
the Voting Preferred Stocks to be converted into Common Stock, with
the special voting rights of these shares transferring to the
Director Preferred Stocks (defined as Class Pilot MEC, IAM, and SAM
junior preferred stock -- see Item 8, Note 13, to the Consolidated
Financial Statements) in the following approximate percentages: to
the holder of the Class Pilot MEC Preferred Stock, 46.23%; to the
holder of the Class IAM Preferred Stock, 37.13% ; and to the holders
of the Class SAM Preferred Stock, 16.64%.  The Director Preferred
Stocks will continue to hold the Single Class Voting Rights until
Sunset, or if Sunset occurs because of, or within one year of, an
Uninstructed Trustee Action, until July 12, 2010.

     Uninstructed Trustee Actions that give rise to a transfer of
voting rights are:

       (1) The ESOP trustee fails to solicit timely instructions or
           fails to act in accordance with such instructions (see below
           for reasons), with respect to the following:

           (a)  But for the transfer of voting rights, a stockholders
                vote would have been sufficient to approve a merger or
                Control Transaction involving UAL or United, or if no
                vote is required, the ESOP trustee enters into a
                binding commitment in connection with a Control
                Transaction; or

           (b)  the ESOP trustee disposes of 10% or more of the
                common equity represented by the Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP
                Preferred Stock (other than in connection with the usual
                distribution or diversification under the ESOP); and

       (2) (a) such transaction would not have been approved
           if the trustee had solicited and/or followed the
           instructions; (b) no timely solicitation of instructions
           occurs, and the matter would not have been approved had the
           ESOP trustee cast all its votes against the matter, or (c)
           the matter does not require a stockholder vote to approve
           such transaction.

An ESOP trustee's disregard of instructions gives rise to an
Uninstructed Trustee Action only when the failure to follow the
instructions is attributable to (1) the trustee's conclusion that its
fiduciary responsibilities require the trustee to not follow the
instructions or (2) the ESOP provisions relating to soliciting are
unenforceable.

     This section is intended as a general summary only and is
qualified in its entirety by reference to the UAL Charter, the
Stockholders' Agreements, the First Refusal Agreement, the ESOPs and
the other exhibits to this Form 10-K


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

Flight Equipment
- ----------------

     As of December 31, 1999, United's operating aircraft fleet
totaled 594 jet aircraft, of which 277 were owned and 317 were
leased.  These aircraft are listed below:


                      Average                                   Average
  Aircraft Type      No. of Seats    Owned   Leased*   Total   Age (Years)
  -------------      ------------    -----   -------   -----   -----------

  A319-100                    126       11        17      28       1
  A320-200                    144       14        42      56       4
  B727-200                    147       67         8      75      21
  B737-200                    109       24         0      24      20
  B737-300                    129       10        91     101      11
  B737-500                    112       27        30      57       7
  B747-200                    369        0         7       7      23
  B747-400                    363       22        21      43       5
  B757-200                    182       41        57      98       8
  B767-200                    168       19         0      19      17
  B767-300                    218       12        20      32       5
  B777-200                    292       22        18      40       3
  DC10-10                     287        6         1       7      25
  DC10-30                     298        0         3       3      22
  DC10-30F                    N/A        2         2       4      20

  TOTAL OPERATING
  FLEET                                277       317     594      10
                                       ===       ===     ===

    *  United's aircraft leases have initial terms of 10 to 26 years,
       and expiration dates range from 2000 through 2020.  Under the
       terms of leases for 310 of the aircraft in the operating fleet,
       United has the right to purchase the aircraft at the end of the
       lease term, in some cases at fair market value and in others at
       fair market value or a percentage of cost.

     As of December 31, 1999, 52 of the 277 aircraft owned by United
were encumbered under debt agreements.

     The following table sets forth United's firm aircraft orders and
expected delivery schedules as of December 31, 1999:

       Aircraft Type    Number     To Be Delivered      Delivery Rate
       -------------    ------     ---------------      -------------

            A319-100        19     2000-2001            0-2 per month
            A320-200        30     2000-2001            0-3 per month
            B747-400         1     2000-2001
            B767-300         5     2000-2001            0-1 per month
            B777-200        21     2000-2002            0-2 per month

          Total             76

Ground Facilities and Equipment
- -------------------------------

     United has entered into various leases relating to its use of
airport-landing areas, gates, hangar sites, terminal buildings and
other airport facilities in most of the municipalities it serves.
Major leases expire at Chicago O'Hare in 2018, Los Angeles in 2021,
San Francisco in 2011, and Washington Dulles in 2014.  United also
has leased ticketing, sales and general office space in the downtown
and outlying areas of most of the larger cities in its system.  In
suburban Chicago, United owns a 106-acre complex consisting of more
than one million square feet of office space for its world
headquarters, a computer facility and a training center.

     United's Maintenance Operation Center ("MOC") at San Francisco
International Airport occupies 129 acres of land, three-million
square feet of floor space and 12 aircraft hangar docks under a lease
expiring in 2003, with an option to extend for 10 years.  United's
Indianapolis Maintenance Center, a major aircraft maintenance and
overhaul facility, is operated under a lease with the Indianapolis
Airport Authority that expires in 2031.  United also has a major
facility at the Oakland, California airport, dedicated to widebody
airframe maintenance.

     At Denver International Airport, United operates under a lease
and use agreement expiring in 2025, and occupies 48 gates and more
than one million square feet of exclusive or preferential use
terminal building space.  United's flight training center, located at
the former Stapleton International Airport, was purchased by United
from the City and County of Denver and can accommodate 36 flight
simulators and more than 90 computer-based training stations.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.


     No material legal proceedings pending.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.


     No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of the
Company during the fourth quarter of 1999.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

     Information regarding the executive officers of the Company is
as follows:

     James E. Goodwin.  Age 55.  Mr. Goodwin has been Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company and United since July 1999.
Prior to his current position, he was President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company and United from September 1998; from April
1995 until September 1998, he served as Senior Vice President - North
America of United; and from 1992 to 1995, he served as Senior Vice
President - International of United.

     Rono Dutta.  Age 48.  Mr. Dutta has been President of the
Company and United since July 1999.  Prior to his current position,
he had served as Senior Vice President - Planning of United since
November 1994 and became an executive officer of the Company in April
1995.

     Douglas A. Hacker.  Age 44.  Mr. Hacker has been Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Executive
Vice President - Finance & Planning and Chief Financial Officer of
United since July 1999.  Prior to his current position, he had served
as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the Company
and United.

     William P. Hobgood.  Age 61.  Mr. Hobgood has been Senior Vice
President - People of United since March 1997 and Senior Vice
President of the Company since September 1999.  From 1981 until
joining United, he was in private practice as an attorney
specializing in mediation and arbitration, including labor-management
issues.

     Francesca M. Maher.  Age 42.  Ms. Maher has been Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company and United
since October 1998.  From June 1997 until October 1998, she was Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company and United.
From April 1993 until June 1997, she was Vice President - Law and
Corporate Secretary of the Company.  With respect to United, she was
VP-Law, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from October
1994 to June 1997.

     Andrew P. Studdert.  Age 43.  Mr. Studdert has been Executive
Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and of
United since July 1999.  Prior to his current position, he served as
Senior Vice President - Fleet Operations of United from September
1997.  He served as Senior Vice President and Chief Information
Officer of United from April 1995 to September 1997.  Prior to
joining United, he was an independent information systems consultant
from July 1994 to March 1995.

     There are no family relationships among the executive officers
of the Company.  The executive officers of the Company serve at the
discretion of the Board of Directors.



                               PART II
                               -------

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The Company's Common Stock, $.01 par value (the "Common Stock"),
is traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE")
under the symbol UAL, and is also listed on the Chicago Stock
Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange.  The following sets forth
for the periods indicated the high and low sales prices per share of
the Company's Common Stock on the NYSE Composite Tape.

                         High           Low
                         ----           ---
1999:
       1st quarter       $ 80 1/4       $ 57  9/16
       2nd quarter         87 3/8         60  1/16
       3rd quarter         69 3/8         58  3/16
       4th quarter         78 3/4         60  1/8

1998:
       1st quarter       $ 95 1/4       $  82
       2nd quarter         97 1/2          73 1/16
       3rd quarter         94              56
       4th quarter         70 7/8          55 1/4




     No dividends have been declared on the Company's common stock
during the past five years.  On November 1, 1999, the Company
announced its intentions to begin a dividend program, which would
include all public stockholders and ESOP participants.  An amendment
to the UAL Charter is necessary to allow holders of certain ESOP
preferred stock to participate in any dividend on common stock in the
same manner as holders of common stock.  This amendment is being
submitted to UAL stockholders at the annual meeting on May 18, 2000.
The payment of any future dividends on the Common Stock and the
amount thereof will be determined by the Board of Directors of the
Company based on earnings, the financial condition of the Company and
other relevant factors.

     At March 1, 2000, based on reports by the Company's transfer
agent for the Common Stock, there were 13,878 common stockholders of
record.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data and Operating Statistics
          ------------------------------------------------



Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations
          -------------------------------------------------
  This section contains various forward-looking statements
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, which are identified with an
asterisk (*).  Forward-looking statements represent the
Company's expectations and beliefs concerning future events,
based on information available to the Company on the date of
the filing of this Form 10K.  The Company undertakes no
obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events or otherwise.  Factors that could significantly
impact the expected results referenced in the forward-
looking statements are listed in the last paragraph of the
section, "Outlook for 2000."

      On July 12, 1994, the stockholders of UAL Corporation
("UAL") approved a plan of recapitalization that provides an
approximately 55% equity and voting interest in UAL to
certain employees of United Air Lines, Inc. ("United") in
exchange for wage concessions and work-rule changes.  The
employees' equity interest is being allocated to individual
employee accounts through the year 2000 under Employee Stock
Ownership Plans ("ESOPs") which were created as part of the
recapitalization.  Since the ESOP shares are being allocated
over time, the current ownership interest held in the ESOPs
is less than 55%.  The entire ESOP voting interest is
currently exercisable, which is voted by the ESOP trustee at
the direction of, and on behalf of, the holders of the ESOP
stock.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------
Liquidity -
      UAL's total of cash and cash equivalents and short-
term investments was $689 million at December 31, 1999,
compared to $815 million at December 31, 1998.  Operating
activities during the year generated $2.421 billion and the
Company's sale of part of its investments in Galileo
International, Inc. ("Galileo") and Equant N.V. ("Equant")
provided $828 million in cash proceeds (see Note 6
"Investments" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).  Cash was used primarily to fund net additions
to property and equipment.

      Property additions, including aircraft, aircraft spare
parts, facilities and ground equipment, amounted to $2.389
billion, while property dispositions resulted in proceeds of
$154 million.  In 1999, United took delivery of eight A319,
five A320, seven B747, two B757, five B767 and six B777
aircraft.  Twenty-one of these aircraft were purchased and
twelve were acquired under capital leases.  In addition,
United acquired two B727 aircraft off-lease during 1999 and
retired ten DC10 and six B747 aircraft.

      During 1999, the Company made payments of $261 million
for the repurchase of 3.8 million shares of common stock.
In January 2000, the Company completed its $300 million 1999
stock repurchase program after acquiring a total of 4.4
million shares.  Financing activities also included
principal payments under debt and capital lease obligations
of $513 million and $248 million, respectively.
Additionally, the Company issued, and subsequently retired,
$286 million in debt to finance the acquisition of aircraft.

      Included in cash and cash equivalents at December 31,
1999 were $89 million of securities held by third parties
under securities lending agreements, as well as collateral
in the amount of 102% of the value of the securities lent.
United is obligated to reacquire the securities at the end
of the contract.

      As of December 31, 1999, UAL had a working capital
deficit of $2.476 billion as compared to $2.760 billion at
December 31, 1998.  Historically, UAL has operated with a
working capital deficit and, as in the past, UAL expects to
meet all of its obligations as they become due.  In
addition, UAL may from time to time repurchase on the open
market, in privately negotiated purchases or otherwise, its
debt and equity securities.

      United has available approximately $1.7 billion in
short-term revolving credit facilities, as well as a
separate $227 million short-term borrowing facility, as
described in Note 8 "Short-Term Borrowings" in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

      Prior Years.  Operating activities in 1998 generated
cash flows of $3.194 billion.  Cash was used primarily to
fund net additions to property and equipment of $2.380
billion and to repurchase common stock in the amount of $459
million.  Financing activities also included repayments of
long-term debt totaling $271 million and payments under
capital leases of $322 million, as well as aircraft lease
deposits of $154 million.  Additionally, the Company issued
$928 million in debt and used part of the proceeds to
purchase $693 million in equipment certificates under
Company operating leases.

      Operating activities in 1997 generated cash flows of
$2.567 billion and the Company's sale of its interest in the
Apollo Travel Services Partnership ("ATS") provided $539
million in cash proceeds.  Cash was used primarily to fund
net additions to property and equipment of $2.729 billion
and to repurchase common stock in the amount of $250
million.  Financing activities included the early
extinguishment of $151 million in principal amount of
various debt securities, mandatory repayments of long-term
debt totaling $150 million and payments under capital leases
of $147 million.  In addition, the Company made payments of
$112 million in aircraft lease deposits and issued $597
million of enhanced pass through certificates.

Capital Commitments -
      At December 31, 1999, commitments for the purchase of
property and equipment, principally aircraft, approximated
$4.4 billion, after deducting advance payments.  Of this
amount, an estimated $2.0 billion is due to be spent in
2000.  For further details, see Note 18 "Commitments,
Contingent Liabilities and Uncertainties" in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Capital Resources -
      Funds necessary to finance aircraft acquisitions are
expected to be obtained from internally generated funds,
external financing arrangements or other external sources.

      At December 31, 1999, United's senior unsecured debt
was rated BB+ by Standard and Poor's ("S & P") and Baa3 by
Moody's Investors Service Inc. ("Moody's").  UAL's Series B
preferred stock and redeemable preferred securities were
rated B+ by S & P and Ba3 by Moody's.

Results of Operations
- ---------------------
Summary of Results -
      UAL's earnings from operations were $1.391 billion in
1999, compared to operating earnings of $1.478 billion in
1998.  UAL's net earnings in 1999 were $1.235 billion ($9.94
per share, diluted), compared to net earnings of $821
million in 1998 ($6.83 per share, diluted).

      The 1999 earnings include an extraordinary loss of $3
million, after tax, on early extinguishment of debt and an
after-tax gain on the sale of certain of the Company's
investments as described in Note 6 "Investments" in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of $468 million
($4.19 per share, diluted), as well as a one-time after-tax
charge of $11 million associated with the write-down of two
non-operating B747-200 aircraft ($0.09 per share, diluted).

      Management believes that a more complete understanding
of UAL's results may be gained by viewing them on a pro
forma, "Fully Distributed" basis.  This approach considers
all ESOP shares which will ultimately be distributed to
employees throughout the ESOP period (rather than just the
shares committed to be released) to be immediately
outstanding and thus Fully Distributed.  Consistent with
this method, the ESOP compensation expense is excluded from
Fully Distributed net earnings, and ESOP convertible
preferred stock dividends are not deducted from earnings
attributable to common stockholders.  No adjustments are
made to Fully Distributed earnings to reflect future salary
increases.  A comparison of results reported on a Fully
Distributed basis to results reported under generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) is as follows:



      The current relationship of earnings and earnings per
share as computed on a GAAP basis versus a Fully Distributed
basis may not be representative of the relationship in
future periods because of various factors.  These factors
include: the dependence of ESOP compensation expense on the
common stock price; trends and commitments with respect to
wages; and the increasing number of shares assumed
outstanding under the GAAP basis during the remainder of the
ESOP period.  During the year 2000, the shares assumed
outstanding under the GAAP basis will approach the number of
shares assumed outstanding under the Fully Distributed
basis.

1999 Compared with 1998 -
- -----------------------
      Operating Revenues.  Operating revenues increased $466
million (3%) and United's revenue per available seat mile
(unit revenue) increased 1% to 10.17 cents.  Passenger
revenues increased $264 million (2%) due to a 1% increase in
United's revenue passenger miles and a 1% increase in yield
to 12.48 cents.  Available seat miles across the system were
up 2% year over year; however, passenger load factor
decreased 0.6 points to 71.0% as traffic only increased 1%
system-wide.  The following analysis by market is based on
information reported to the U.S. Department of
Transportation:



      Pacific yields improved as the Asian economies
continue to recover.  Yields in other international markets
have been impacted by a negative pricing environment
resulting from excess industry capacity.

      Cargo revenues decreased $7 million (1%) despite
increased freight ton miles of 5%, as a 4% decline in
freight yield combined with a 3% decline in mail yield.
Other operating revenues increased $209 million (19%) due to
increases in frequent flyer program partner related
revenues, fuel sales to third parties and additional revenue
related to the Galileo services agreement (see Note 6
"Investments" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).

      Operating Expenses.  Operating expenses increased $553
million (3%) and United's cost per available seat mile
increased 2% from 9.24 to 9.41 cents, including ESOP
compensation expense.  Excluding ESOP compensation expense,
United's 1999 cost per available seat mile would have been
8.98 cents, an increase of 3% from 1998.  ESOP compensation
expense decreased $73 million (9%), reflecting the decrease
in the estimated average fair value of ESOP stock committed
to be released to employees as a result of UAL's lower
common stock price.  Salaries and related costs increased
$329 million (6%) as a result of increased staffing in
customer-contact positions, as well as salary increases for
most labor groups which took effect July 1, 1998.
Commissions decreased $186 million (14%) due to a change in
the commission structure implemented in the third quarter
1998 as well as a slight decrease in commissionable
revenues.  In addition, in October 1999, the Company reduced
the base commissions for tickets purchased in the U.S. and
Canada to 5%, subject to roundtrip caps of $50 domestic and
$100 international.  Purchased services increased $70
million (5%) due to increases in computer reservations fees
and year 2000-related expenses.  Depreciation and
amortization increased $74 million (9%) due to an increase
in the number of owned aircraft and losses on disposition of
aircraft partially offset by changes in depreciable lives of
certain aircraft.  In addition, during the fourth quarter,
United wrote-down two non-operating B747-200 aircraft to net
realizable value.  Aircraft maintenance increased $65
million (10%) due to in increase in heavy maintenance
visits.  Other operating expenses increased $235 million
(11%) primarily due to costs associated with fuel sales to
third parties.

      Other Income and Expense.  Other income (expense)
amounted to $551 million in income in 1999 compared to $222
million in expense in 1998.  Interest capitalized, primarily
on aircraft advance payments, decreased $30 million (29%).
Interest income increased $9 million (15%) due to higher
investment balances.  In addition, 1999 included a $669
million gain on the sale of Galileo stock and a $62 million
gain on the sale of Equant stock.

1998 Compared with 1997 -
- -----------------------
      Operating Revenues.  Operating revenues increased $183
million (1%) while United's revenue per available seat mile
(unit revenue) decreased 2% to 10.07 cents.  Passenger
revenues increased $178 million (1%) due to a 3% increase in
United's revenue passenger miles despite a 1% decrease in
yield from 12.55 to 12.36 cents.  Available seat miles
across the system were up 3% year over year; however,
passenger load factor decreased 0.2 point to 71.6%.  The
following analysis by market is based on information
reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation:



      Pacific yields were negatively impacted by the
weakness of the Japanese yen compared to the dollar during
the first nine months of 1998, and the continued effects of
the Asian economic turmoil on demand for travel.  Yields in
other international markets were  impacted by a negative
pricing environment resulting from excess industry capacity
and weakened economies.

      Cargo revenues increased $21 million (2%) on increased
freight ton miles of 6%.  A relatively flat freight yield
together with a 1% lower mail yield, resulted in a 1%
decrease in cargo yield for the year.  Other operating
revenues decreased $16 million (1%) due to the sale of ATS
in July 1997, partially offset by increases in frequent
flyer program partner-related revenues and contract sales to
third parties.

      Operating Expenses.  Operating expenses decreased $36
million (0.2%) and United's cost per available seat mile
including ESOP compensation expense decreased 3%, from 9.53
cents to 9.24 cents.  Without the ESOP compensation expense,
United's cost per available seat mile would have been 8.76
cents, a decrease of 2% from 1997.  ESOP compensation
expense decreased $158 million (16%) reflecting the decrease
in the estimated average fair value of stock committed to
the Supplemental ESOP due to UAL's lower common stock price.
Purchased services increased $220 million (17%) due to
increases in computer reservations fees, credit card
discounts, communications expense and year 2000-related
spending.  Depreciation and amortization increased $69
million (10%) due to an increase in the number of owned
aircraft and an $11 million decrease in gains on asset
sales, from $23 million in 1997 to $12 million in 1998.
Salaries and related costs increased $323 million (6%) due
to two mid-term wage adjustments for ESOP participants which
took place in July of 1998 and 1997 and increased staffing
in customer-contact positions.  Aircraft fuel decreased $273
million (13%) as a result of a 15% decrease in the average
cost of fuel from 69.5 cents to 59.0 cents a gallon.
Commissions decreased $183 million (12%) due to a change in
the commission structure implemented in the third quarter of
1997 as well as a slight decrease in commissionable
revenues.  Aircraft rent decreased $49 million (5%) as a
result of refinancing aircraft under operating lease.

      Other Income and Expense.  Other income (expense)
amounted to $222 million in expense in 1998 compared to $265
million in income in 1997.  Interest expense increased $69
million (24%) in 1998 due to the issuance of long-term debt
in 1997 and 1998.  Interest income increased $7 million
(13%) due to higher investment balances.  In 1998, foreign
exchange losses increased $65 million.  Because not all
economic hedges qualify as accounting hedges, unrealized
gains and losses may be recognized in income in advance of
the actual foreign currency cash flows.  This mismatch of
accounting gains and losses and foreign currency cash flows
was especially pronounced during the fourth quarter of 1998
as a result of the appreciation in value of the Japanese
yen, relative to the U.S. dollar.  This mismatch resulted in
a pre-tax charge of $52 million which is included in foreign
exchange losses.  In addition, 1997 included a $275 million
gain on the sale of ATS and a $103 million gain on the
initial public offering of Galileo stock.

Other Information
- -----------------
Labor Agreements and Wage Adjustments -
      On May 27, 1999, United's public contact employees
(primarily customer service and reservations sales and
service representatives) ratified the tentative agreement
between the Company and the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers ("IAM").  The contract
provides for an across-the-board wage increase of 5.5
percent effective April 13, 2000.  In addition, certain
employees hired after July 12, 1994 received an immediate
14.5% pay increase and benefits comparable to other affected
employees.

      The Company's contracts with the Air Line Pilots'
Association International ("ALPA") and the IAM become
amendable in April and July 2000, respectively.  The Company
is currently in the process of negotiating new contracts
with ALPA and the IAM.  Wage rates for U.S.-based non-union
employees will be adjusted in April 2000 as well. It is the
Company's objective through this wage adjustment process to
provide compensation for its employees that, on average over
the life of the labor contracts, is competitive with peer
group compensation.  In this regard, wages for airline
employees over the last year have increased at faster than
historical rates.

      Coupled with increased staffing levels, these
negotiations and wage rate adjustments are expected to
increase the Company's salaries and related costs above 1999
levels.  While the amount of these increases cannot be fully
determined until contract negotiations are complete, the
Company currently estimates that salaried and related costs
will increase by over $750 million (14%) in 2000 as a result
of these wage rate adjustment processes.*  At the same time,
once the final ESOP shares are committed to be released in
April 2000, the Company will no longer record ESOP
compensation expense.

Foreign Operations -
      United generates revenues and incurs expenses in
numerous foreign currencies.  These expenses include
aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel costs,
reservation and ticket office services, customer service
expenses and aircraft maintenance.  Changes in foreign
currency exchange rates impact operating income through
changes in foreign currency-denominated operating revenues
and expenses.  Despite the adverse (favorable) effects a
strengthening (weakening) foreign currency may have on U.S.
originating traffic, a strengthening (weakening) of foreign
currencies tends to increase (decrease) reported revenue and
operating income because United's foreign currency-
denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign
currency-denominated operating expense for each currency.

      By carrying passengers and cargo in both directions
between the U.S. and almost every major economic region in
the world and by selling its services in each local country,
United attempts to mitigate its exposure to fluctuations in
any single foreign currency.  The Company's biggest net
exposures are typically for Japanese yen, Hong Kong dollars,
Australian dollars and British pounds.  During 1999, yen-
denominated operating revenue net of yen-denominated
operating expense was approximately 26 billion yen
(approximately $206 million), Hong Kong dollar-denominated
operating revenue net of Hong Kong dollar-denominated
operating expense was approximately 1,299 million Hong Kong
dollars (approximately $166 million), Australian dollar-
denominated operating revenue net of Australian dollar-
denominated operating expense was approximately 208 million
Australian dollars (approximately $134 million) and British
pound-denominated operating revenue net of British pound-
denominated operating expense was approximately 67 million
British pounds (approximately $109 million).

      To reduce the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on
United's financial results, the Company hedges some of the
risk of exchange rate volatility on its anticipated future
foreign currency revenues by purchasing put options
(consisting of yen, Euro, Australian dollars and British
pounds) and selling Hong Kong dollar forwards.  To reduce
hedging costs, the Company sells a correlation basket option
in the four currencies referred to above.  United also
attempts to reduce its exposure to transaction gains and
losses by converting excess local currencies generated to
U.S. dollars and by entering into currency forward or
exchange contracts.  The total notional amount of
outstanding currency options and forward exchange contracts,
and their respective fair market values as of December 31,
1999, are summarized in Item 7A.  Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

      United's foreign operations involve insignificant
amounts of physical assets; however, there are sizable
intangible assets related to acquisitions of Atlantic and
Latin America route authorities.  Operating authorities in
international markets are governed by bilateral aviation
agreements between the United States and foreign countries.
Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies can
lead to the alteration or termination of existing air
service agreements that could adversely impact the value of
United's international route authority.  Significant changes
in such policies could also have a material impact on UAL's
operating revenues and results of operations.

Airport Rents and Landing Fees -
      United is charged facility rental and landing fees at
virtually every airport at which it operates.  In recent
years, many airports have increased or sought to increase
rates charged to airlines as a means of compensating for
increasing demands upon airport revenues.  Airlines have
challenged certain of these increases through litigation and
in some cases have not been successful.  The Federal
Aviation Administration ("FAA") and the DOT have instituted
an administrative hearing process to judge whether rate
increases are legal and valid.  However, to the extent the
limitations on such charges are relaxed or the ability of
airlines to challenge such charges is restricted, the rates
charged by airports may increase substantially.  Management
cannot predict the magnitude of any such increase.

Environmental and Legal Contingencies -
      United has been named as a Potentially Responsible
Party at certain Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA")
cleanup sites which have been designated as Superfund Sites.
United's alleged proportionate contributions at the sites
are minimal; however, at sites where the EPA has commenced
litigation, potential liability is joint and several.
Additionally, United has participated and is participating
in remediation actions at certain other sites, primarily
airports.  The estimated cost of these actions is accrued
when it is determined that it is probable that United is
liable. Environmental regulations and remediation processes
are subject to future change, and determining the actual
cost of remediation will require further investigation and
remediation experience.  Therefore, the ultimate cost cannot
be determined at this time.  However, while such cost may
vary from United's current estimate, United believes the
difference between its accrued reserve and the ultimate
liability will not be material.*

      UAL has certain other contingencies resulting from
this and other litigation and claims incident to the
ordinary course of business.  Management believes, after
considering a number of factors, including (but not limited
to) the views of legal counsel, the nature of such
contingencies and prior experience, that the ultimate
disposition of these contingencies is not likely to
materially affect UAL's financial condition, operating
results or liquidity.*

Year 2000 -
      UAL completed a successful transition to the Year 2000
as systems performed without interruption during the
rollover from December 31, 1999 to January 1, 2000.  As of
December 31, 1999, the Company had incurred $81 million in
project costs ($50 million in expense and $31 million in
capital.)  During 1999, the Company incurred $52 million in
project costs ($26 million in expense and $26 million in
capital.)

Air Canada -
      On October 19, 1999, the Company announced its
intentions, along with Deutsche Lufthansa AG ("Lufthansa"),
to provide a financial package of up to 730 million
Canadian dollars for Air Canada.  In November, United
invested 93 million Canadian ($64 million) in Air Canada's
non-voting convertible preferred shares through an
investment partnership owned by UAL (40%) and Lufthansa
(60%).

      The remaining UAL investment in Air Canada consists
of the purchase from and subsequent leaseback to Air Canada
of three Airbus A330 aircraft, two of which occurred in
1999, and a commitment by the Company to guarantee a 160
million Canadian dollar line of credit.

Common Stock Dividends -
      On November 1, 1999, UAL's Board of Directors
announced its intention to begin a dividend program for
common stock dividends totaling $1.25 per share in the year
2000.  The payment of dividends is contingent upon
stockholder approval of amendments to the Company's
charter, which will be voted on at the UAL annual meeting
in May 2000.  If the charter amendment is approved and the
Board declares a dividend, participants in the Company's
ESOP plan will be eligible to receive dividends ($5.00 per
year per ESOP share, as each ESOP share is convertible into
four common shares) in the same manner as public
stockholders.

New Accounting Pronouncements -
      In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities" ("SFAS No. 133"), which establishes accounting
and reporting standards requiring that every derivative
instrument be recorded in the balance sheet as either an
asset or liability measured at its fair value.  SFAS No.
133 requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be
recognized currently in earnings unless specific hedge
accounting criteria are met.  Special accounting for
qualifying hedges allows a derivative's gains and losses to
offset related results on the hedged item in the income
statement, and requires that a company must formally
document, designate and assess the effectiveness of
transactions that receive hedge accounting.

      The effective date of SFAS No. 133 has been delayed
one year, to fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000.
The Company plans on adopting SFAS No. 133 in the first
quarter of 2001.  United is in the process of reviewing its
various contracts to determine which contracts meet the
requirements of SFAS No. 133 and would need to be reflected
as derivatives under the standard and accounted for at fair
value.  The Company has not yet quantified the impacts of
adopting SFAS No. 133 on the financial statements.
However, it could increase volatility in earnings and other
comprehensive income.

      In September 1999, the Financial Accounting Standard
Board's ("FASB") Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") issued
EITF Issue No. 99-13, "Application of Issue No. 97-10, "The
Effect of Lessee Involvement in Asset Construction" and
FASB Interpretation No. 23, Leases of Certain Property
Owned by a Governmental Unit or Authority, to Entities that
Enter into Leases with Governmental Entities" ("EITF 99-
13").  EITF 99-13 discusses the application of lease
accounting for property owned by governmental authorities,
such as airport facilities.  Historically, airlines have
received operating lease treatment for assets funded by
governmental units and separately disclosed the bond
guarantee and lease commitment in the footnotes to the
financial statements.  EITF 99-13 would require United to
apply different guidelines for determining the accounting
treatment for special facility bonds and may result in
United's recording the property and related financing on
the balance sheet for future transactions.  The EITF is
effective for transactions entered into after September 23,
1999.

      In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC") issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements", ("SAB
101"), which provides guidance on the recognition,
presentation and disclosure of revenue in financial
statements.  Although SAB 101 does not change existing
accounting rules on revenue recognition, changes in
accounting to apply the guidance in SAB 101 may be
accounted for as a change in accounting principle.  In the
first quarter of 2000, United intends to change the method
it uses to account for the sale of mileage to participating
partners in its Mileage Plus program.  Under the new
accounting method, a portion of the revenue from the sale
of mileage will be deferred and recognized when
transportation is provided.  In accordance with the
provisions of SAB 101, United will recognize a charge for
the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle
in the first quarter of 2000, to reflect application of the
accounting method to prior years.

Outlook for 2000 -
     The Company's revenue performance is expected to
benefit from stronger global economic growth in 2000, as
well as the full implementation of Economy Plus. Total unit
revenues are estimated to range between 2% and 4% higher
than 1999, driven by improvement in three of the company's
four global regions: North America, Atlantic, Pacific and
Latin America.

     The Company expects to face two major cost challenges
during the year.  The first involves material wage increases
consistent with its commitment to provide competitive
compensation to its employees after the ESOP allocation
period comes to a close.  In addition, fuel prices are
expected to average 71 cents per gallon, including taxes and
hedging activity, or 23% above 1999 levels.  Fully
distributed unit costs excluding ESOP compensation expense
are estimated to be about 6% higher than 1999, based on
system capacity growth just under 3%.

     In summary, the Company anticipates 2000 earnings
should range between $7.00 and $9.00 per fully distributed
share.

     During the first quarter, the Company expects to
benefit from its fuel hedging activity.  Fully distributed
unit costs are expected to rise 5%, 2% excluding fuel.
Total unit revenue is expected to increase 2 to 4%, based
primarily on continued healthy demand for travel in the
United States and continued economic recovery in the
Pacific. Therefore, the Company expects fully distributed
earnings per share in the first quarter to range from $0.80
to $1.20.

     The information included in the above outlook section,
as well as certain statements made throughout the
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations that are identified by an asterisk
(*) is forward looking and involves risks and uncertainties
that could result in actual results differing materially
from expected results.  It is not reasonably possible to
itemize all of the many factors and specific events that
could affect the outlook of an airline operating in the
global economy.  Some factors that could significantly
impact expected capacity, unit revenues, wages, fully
distributed unit costs, fuel prices and fully distributed
earnings per share include: the success of the Company's
cost-control efforts, the outcome of negotiations on new
contracts with the union groups, industry capacity
decisions, the airline pricing environment, the economic
environment of the airline industry, fuel prices, actions of
the U.S., foreign and local governments, the Asian economic
environment and travel patterns, foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations and the general economic environment.
With respect to the forward-looking statements set forth in
the "Environmental and Legal Contingencies" section, some of
the factors that could affect the ultimate disposition of
these contingencies are changes in applicable laws, the
development of facts in individual cases, settlement
opportunities and the actions of plaintiffs, judges and
juries.


Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
          ----------------------------------------------------------
     Interest Rate Risk - United's exposure to market risk
associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to
its debt obligations and short-term investments.  United does
not use derivative financial instruments in its investments
portfolio.  United's policy is to manage interest rate risk
through a combination of fixed and floating rate debt and
entering into swap agreements, depending upon market
conditions.  A portion of the borrowings are denominated in
foreign currencies which exposes the Company to risks
associated with changes in foreign exchange rates.  To hedge
against some of this risk, the Company has placed foreign
currency deposits (primarily for Japanese yen, French francs,
German marks and Euros) to meet foreign currency lease
obligations designated in the respective currencies.   Since
unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign
currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the
foreign currency obligations, the Company reduces its overall
exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility.  The
fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present
value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate.  The
fair value of long-term debt is based on the quoted market
prices for the same or similar issues or the present value of
future cash flows using a U.S. Treasury rate that matches the
remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread.



     Foreign Currency Risk - United has established a foreign
currency hedging program using currency forwards and currency
options to hedge exposure to the yen, Euro, Australian dollar,
British pound and Hong Kong dollar.  The goal of the hedging
program is to effectively manage risk associated with
fluctuations in the value of the foreign currency, thereby
making financial results more stable and predictable.  United
does not use currency forwards or currency options for trading
purposes.


     As of December 31, 1998, United had $215 million of
Japanese yen forwards outstanding with a fair value of $3
million, $315 million yen put options with a fair value of $4
and $317 million yen call options with a fair value of $(50)
million.

     Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel) - At December 31, 1999, the
Company had contracted to purchase approximately 6% of the
Company's 2000 fuel requirements at an average fixed price of
$0.51 per gallon. In addition, to a limited extent United
trades short-term heating oil futures and option contracts,
which are immaterial. When market conditions indicate risk
reduction is achievable, United enters into fuel option
contracts to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel.  As
market conditions change, so may United's hedging program.
Currently United purchases call options to provide protection
against sharp increases in the price of aircraft fuel.
Through this approach, at December 31, 1999, United had hedged
75% of the Company's expected 2000 fuel purchases.  It is the
Company's intent to be fully hedged for probable jet fuel
purchases for year 2000 by the end of the first quarter.

     At December 31, 1998, United had $496 million in purchased
call contracts for crude oil with an estimated fair value of
$13 million and $202 million in sold put contracts for crude
oil with an estimated fair value of $(50) million.


     *Estimated fair values represent the amount United would
      pay/receive on December 31, 1999 to terminate the contracts.




Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
         -------------------------------------------





           REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



To the Stockholders and
Board of Directors, UAL Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying statements of consolidated
financial position of UAL Corporation (a Delaware corporation)
and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and
the related statements of consolidated operations, consolidated
cash flows and consolidated stockholders' equity for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999.  These
financial statements and the schedule referred to below are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of UAL Corporation and subsidiary companies
as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on
the basic financial statements taken as a whole.  The schedule
referenced in Item 14(a)2 herein is presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules
and is not part of the basic financial statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied
in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial
data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.

                              /s/   Arthur Andersen LLP

                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Chicago, Illinois
February 24, 2000



   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


  See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




  See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


             See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
         ------------------------------------------
(1)  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
     ------------------------------------------
     (a)  Basis of Presentation - UAL Corporation ("UAL") is
a holding company whose principal subsidiary is United Air
Lines, Inc. ("United").  The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of UAL and all of its
majority-owned affiliates (collectively "the Company").  All
significant intercompany transactions are eliminated.
Investments in affiliates are carried on the equity basis.
Certain prior-year financial statement items have been
reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation.

     (b)  Use of Estimates - The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

     (c)  Airline Revenues - Passenger fares and cargo
revenues are recorded as operating revenues when the
transportation is furnished.  The value of unused passenger
tickets is included in current liabilities.

     (d)  Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-term
Investments - Cash in excess of operating requirements is
invested in short-term, highly liquid, income-producing
investments.  Investments with a maturity of three months or
less on their acquisition date are classified as cash and
cash equivalents.  Other investments are classified as short-
term investments.

     From time to time, United lends certain of its
securities classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-
term investments to third parties.  United requires
collateral in an amount exceeding the value of the
securities and is obligated to reacquire the securities at
the end of the contract.  United accounts for these
transactions as secured borrowings rather than sales and
does not remove the securities from the balance sheet.  At
December 31, 1999, United was obligated to repurchase $89
million of securities lent to third parties.

     At December 31, 1999 and 1998, $406 million and $418
million, respectively, of investments in debt securities
included in cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments were classified as available-for-sale, and $177
million and $241 million, respectively, were classified as
held-to-maturity.  Investments in debt securities classified
as available-for-sale are stated at fair value based on the
quoted market prices for the securities, which does not
differ significantly from their cost basis.  Investments
classified as held-to-maturity are stated at cost which
approximates market due to their short-term maturities.  The
proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities are
included in interest income for each respective year.

     (e)  Derivative Financial Instruments -

     Foreign Currency - From time to time, United enters
into Japanese yen forward exchange contracts to minimize
gains and losses on the revaluation of short-term yen-
denominated liabilities.  The yen forwards typically have
short-term maturities and are marked to fair value at the
end of each accounting period.  The unrealized mark-to-
market gains and losses on the yen forwards generally offset
the losses and gains recorded on the yen liabilities.

     United has also entered into forwards and swaps to
reduce exposure to currency fluctuations on yen-, Euro- and
French franc-denominated capital lease obligations.  The
cash flows of the forwards and swaps mirror those of the
capital leases.  The premiums on the forwards and swaps, as
measured at inception, are being amortized over their
respective lives as components of interest expense.  Any
gains or losses realized upon early termination of these
forwards and swaps are deferred and recognized in income
over the remaining life of the underlying exposure.

     The Company hedges some of the risks of exchange rate
volatility on its anticipated future yen, Euro, Australian
dollar and British pound revenues by purchasing put options
with little or no intrinsic value and on Hong Kong dollar
revenues by entering into forward contracts.  The amount and
duration of these options are synchronized with the expected
revenues, and thus, the put options have been designated as
a hedge.  The premiums on purchased option contracts are
amortized over the lives of the contracts.  Unrealized gains
on purchased put option contracts are deferred until
contract expiration and then recognized as a component of
passenger revenue.  To reduce hedging costs, the Company
sells a correlation basket option in the four currencies
referred to above.  The unrealized mark-to-market gains and
losses on the correlation options are included in
"Miscellaneous, net," net of premiums received.

     Interest Rates - United may from time to time, enter
into swaps to reduce exposure to interest rate fluctuations
in connection with certain debt, capital leases and
operating leases.  The cash flows of the swaps mirror those
of the underlying exposures.  The premiums on the swaps, as
measured at inception, are amortized over their respective
lives as components of interest expense.  Any gains or
losses realized upon the early termination of these swaps
are deferred and recognized in income over the remaining
life of the underlying exposure.

     Aircraft Fuel - United uses purchased call options to
hedge a portion of its price risk related to aircraft fuel
purchases.  The purchased call options have been designated
as a hedge.  Gains or losses on hedge positions, net of
premiums paid, are recognized upon contract expiration as a
component of aircraft fuel inventory.  In addition, to a
limited extent, United trades short-term heating oil futures
contracts.  Unrealized losses on these contracts are
recorded currently in income while unrealized gains are
deferred until contract expiration.  Both gains and losses
are recorded as a component of aircraft fuel expense.

     (f)  Aircraft Fuel, Spare Parts and Supplies - Aircraft
fuel and maintenance and operating supplies are stated at
average cost.  Flight equipment spare parts are stated at
average cost less an obsolescence allowance.

     (g)  Operating Property and Equipment - Owned operating
property and equipment is stated at cost.  Property under
capital leases, and the related obligation for future lease
payments, are initially recorded at an amount equal to the
then present value of those lease payments.

     Depreciation and amortization of owned depreciable
assets is based on the straight-line method over their
estimated service lives.  Leasehold improvements are
amortized over the remaining period of the lease or the
estimated service life of the related asset, whichever is
less.  Aircraft are depreciated to estimated salvage values,
generally over lives of 4 to 30 years; buildings are
depreciated over lives of 25 to 45 years; and other property
and equipment are depreciated over lives of 3 to 15 years.

     Properties under capital leases are amortized on the
straight-line method over the life of the lease, or in the
case of certain aircraft, over their estimated service
lives.  Lease terms are 10 to 30 years for aircraft and
flight simulators and 25 years for buildings.  Amortization
of capital leases is included in depreciation and
amortization expense.

     Maintenance and repairs, including the cost of minor
replacements, are charged to maintenance expense accounts.
Costs of additions to and renewals of units of property are
charged to property and equipment accounts.

     (h)  Intangibles - Intangibles consist primarily of
route acquisition costs and intangible pension assets (see
Note 16, "Retirement and Postretirement Plans").  Route
acquisition costs are amortized over 40 years.

     (i)  Mileage Plus Awards - United accrues the estimated
incremental cost of providing free travel awards earned
under its Mileage Plus frequent flyer program (including
awards earned from mileage credits sold) when such award
levels are reached.  United, through its wholly owned
subsidiary, Mileage Plus Holdings, Inc., sells mileage
credits to participating partners in the Mileage Plus
program.  The resulting revenue is recorded in other
operating revenues during the period in which the credits
are sold.  Effective January 1, 2000, the Company intends to
change the method of accounting for the sale of mileage.
See "New Accounting Pronouncements" in Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.

     (j)  Deferred Gains - Gains on aircraft sale and
leaseback transactions are deferred and amortized over the
lives of the leases as a reduction of rental expense.

(2)  Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Recapitalization
     ---------------------------------------------------
     On July 12, 1994, the shareholders of UAL approved a
plan of recapitalization to provide an approximately 55%
equity interest in UAL to certain employees of United in
exchange for wage concessions and work-rule changes.  The
employees' equity interest is being allocated to individual
employees through the year 2000 under Employee Stock
Ownership Plans ("ESOPs") which were created as a part of
the recapitalization.

     The ESOPs cover employees represented by the Air Line
Pilots' Association, International, the International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and U.S.
management and salaried employees.  The ESOPs include a
"Leveraged ESOP," a "Non-Leveraged ESOP" and a "Supplemental
ESOP."  Both the Leveraged ESOP and the Non-Leveraged ESOP
are tax-qualified plans while the Supplemental ESOP is not a
tax-qualified plan.  Shares are delivered to employees
primarily through the Leveraged ESOP, then through the Non-
Leveraged ESOP, and finally, through the Supplemental ESOP.

     The equity interests are being delivered to employees
through two classes of preferred stock (Class 1 and Class 2
ESOP Preferred Stock, collectively "ESOP Preferred Stock"),
and the voting interests are being delivered through three
separate classes of preferred stocks (Class P, M and S
Voting Preferred Stock, collectively, "Voting Preferred
Stock").  The Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock is being
delivered to an ESOP trust in seven separate sales under the
Leveraged ESOP, the last of which occurred on January 5,
2000.  Based on Internal Revenue Code Limitations, shares of
the Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock are either contributed to
the Non-Leveraged ESOP or allocated as "book entry" shares
to the Supplemental ESOP, annually through the year 2000.
The classes of preferred stock are described more fully in
Note 13, "ESOP Preferred Stock."

     The Leveraged ESOP and Non-Leveraged ESOP are being
accounted for under AICPA Statement of Position 93-6,
"Employers' Accounting for Employee Stock Ownership Plans"
("SOP").  For the Leveraged ESOP, as shares of Class 1 ESOP
Preferred Stock are sold to an ESOP trust, the Company
reports the issuance as a credit to additional capital
invested and records a corresponding charge to unearned ESOP
preferred stock. ESOP compensation expense is recorded for
the average fair value of the shares committed to be
released during the period with a corresponding credit to
unearned ESOP preferred stock for the cost of the shares.
Any difference between the fair value of the shares and the
cost of the shares is charged or credited to additional
capital invested.  For the Non-Leveraged ESOP, the Class 2
ESOP Preferred Stock is recorded as additional capital
invested as the shares are committed to be contributed, with
the offsetting charge to ESOP compensation expense.  The
ESOP compensation expense is based on the average fair value
of the shares committed to be contributed.  The Supplemental
ESOP is being accounted for under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees."

     Shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are legally released or
allocated to employee accounts as of year-end.  Dividends on
the ESOP Preferred Stock are also paid at the end of the
year.  Dividends on unallocated shares are used by the ESOP
to pay down the loan from UAL and are not considered
dividends for financial reporting purposes.  Dividends on
allocated shares are satisfied by releasing shares from the
ESOP's suspense account to the employee accounts and are
charged to equity.

     During 1999, 2,334,370 shares of Class 1 ESOP Preferred
Stock, 123,841 shares of Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock and
2,453,337 shares of Voting Preferred Stock were allocated to
employee accounts, and another 615,757 shares of Class 2
ESOP Preferred Stock were allocated in the form of "book
entry" shares, effective December 31, 1998.  Another 100,180
shares of Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock previously allocated
in book entry form were issued and either contributed to the
qualified plan or converted and sold on behalf of
terminating employees.  At December 31, 1999, the year-end
allocation of Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock to employee
accounts had not yet been completed.  There were 2,390,935
shares of Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock committed to be
released and 130,643 shares held in suspense by the ESOP as
of December 31, 1999.  For the Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock,
683,038 shares were committed to be contributed to employees
at December 31, 1999.  The fair value of the unearned ESOP
shares recorded on the balance sheet at December 31, 1999
and 1998 was $41 million and $141 million, respectively.

     For the Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock committed to be
contributed to employees under the Supplemental ESOP,
employees can elect to receive their "book entry" shares in
cash upon termination of employment.  The estimated fair
value of such shares at December 31, 1999 and 1998 was $954
million and $600 million, respectively.

(3)  Other Income (Expense) - Miscellaneous
     --------------------------------------
     Other income (expense) - "Miscellaneous, net" consisted
of the following:


(4) Other Comprehensive Income
    --------------------------
     The following table presents the tax effect of those
items included in other comprehensive income:


     The components of accumulated other comprehensive
income consist of the following items:


     Unrealized gains on securities primarily represents
gains on the Company's investments in Galileo International,
Inc. and Equant N.V. as discussed in Note 6 "Investments".

(5)  Per Share Amounts
     -----------------
     Basic earnings per share were computed by dividing net
income before extraordinary item by the weighted-average
number of shares of common stock outstanding during the
year.  In addition, diluted earnings per share amounts
include potential common shares, including common shares
issuable upon conversion of ESOP shares committed to be
released.


     At December 31, 1999, stock options to purchase
1,334,722 shares of common stock were outstanding, but were
not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
share because the options' exercise price was greater than
the average market price of the common shares.

(6)  Investments
     -----------
     In June 1999, United sold 17,500,000 common shares of
Galileo International, Inc. ("Galileo") in a secondary
offering for $766 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of
approximately $669 million.  This sale reduced United's
holdings in Galileo from 32 percent to approximately 15
percent, requiring United to discontinue the equity method
of accounting for its investment in Galileo.  United has
classified its remaining 15,940,000 shares of Galileo common
stock as available-for-sale.  The market value of these
shares at December 31, 1999 ($477 million) is reflected in
Investments in Affiliates on the balance sheet and the
market value in excess of United's investment is classified
net-of-tax ($253 million) in accumulated other comprehensive
income.  The market value of United's investment in Galileo
at December 31, 1998 was $1,455 million.  Included in the
Company's retained earnings is approximately $240 million of
undistributed earnings of Galileo and its predecessor
companies.

     In July 1997, United completed the sale of its interest
in the Apollo Travel Services Partnership ("ATS") a 77%
owned affiliate whose accounts were consolidated, to Galileo
for $539 million in cash.  This transaction resulted in a
pre-tax gain of approximately $405 million.  Of this amount,
$275 million was recognized in 1997, $7 million in 1998 and
$4 million in 1999.  The remaining balance ($119 million)
reduced the basis of the Company's investment in Galileo.

     Under operating agreements with Galileo, United
purchases computer reservations services from Galileo and
during 1999 and 1998 provided communications services to
Galileo, while during 1997 provided marketing, sales and
communication services to Galileo.  Revenues derived from
the sale of services to Galileo amounted to approximately $4
million in 1999, $13 million in 1998 and $159 million in
1997.  The cost to United of services purchased from Galileo
amounted to approximately $170 million in 1999, $170 million
in 1998 and $134 million in 1997.  In connection with the
sale of ATS, United entered into an additional services
agreement with Galileo under which the Company provides
certain marketing and other services designed to increase
the competitiveness of Galileo's business and to generate
additional bookings and revenues for Galileo.  In December
1999, United recognized $14 million in other operating
revenues related to the achievement of improvements in
Galileo's air booking revenues as specified in the
agreements.

     Prior to the sale to Galileo, ATS contributed the
following amounts to the Company's consolidated results, net
of intercompany eliminations and minority interests:


     United owns depositary certificates in Equant N.V.
("Equant"), a provider of international data network
services to multinational businesses and a single source for
global desktop communications.  Each depositary certificate
represents a beneficial interest in an Equant common share.
During the fourth quarter of 1999, transferability
restrictions on these shares were removed and the investment
was classified as available-for-sale.  The market value in
excess of United's investment is classified net-of-tax ($100
million) in accumulated other comprehensive income.  In
December 1999, United sold 709,000 shares of common stock in
Equant in a secondary offering by Equant for $62 million.
At December 31, 1999, the estimated fair value of United's
remaining investment in Equant was approximately $156
million.

     GetThere.com is a leading provider of internet-based
travel planning products tailored to individual, corporate,
travel supplier and travel agency customers.  During 1999,
United invested approximately $51 million in GetThere.com,
resulting in a 28% minority interest in GetThere.com
consisting of common stock, warrants and options. United
accounts for its investment in GetThere.com using the equity
method of accounting.

     In July 1999, United and Buy.com agreed to form a joint
venture (BuyTravel.com) to sell travel on all major
airlines, as well as hotels, car rentals and cruises via the
Internet.  Both United and Buy.com will have a 50 percent
interest in BuyTravel.com.  United also received warrants
exercisable for 2.0 million shares of Buy.com common stock.
United will account for its investment in BuyTravel.com
using the equity method of accounting.

     In November 1999, United entered into a participation
agreement with Priceline.com to provide inventory to
Priceline.com.  In exchange, United received 5.5 million
warrants for Priceline.com common stock exercisable in five
years.  The participation agreement contains early exercise
provisions allowing United to exercise the warrants if in
three years specific performance criteria are met.  The
warrants have been valued at $61 million by an investment
bank and are being recognized as passenger revenue over a
three-year period.  In 1999, the total revenue recognized
was $6 million.

(7)  Income Taxes
     ------------
     In 1999, the alternative minimum tax ("AMT") liability
of the Company exceeded the regular tax liability resulting
in additional AMT credits.  The federal income tax liability
is the greater of the tax computed using the regular tax
system or the tax under the AMT system.  If the regular tax
liability exceeds the AMT liability and AMT credits are
available, then AMT credits are used to reduce the net tax
liability to the amount of the AMT liability.

     The provision for income taxes is summarized as
follows:


     The income tax provision differed from amounts computed
at the statutory federal income tax rate, as follows:

     Temporary differences and carryforwards that give rise
to a significant portion of deferred tax assets and
liabilities for 1999 and 1998 are as follows:

     At December 31, 1999, UAL and its subsidiaries had $210
million of federal AMT credits which may be carried forward
to reduce the tax liabilities of future years.

(8)   Short-Term Borrowings
      ---------------------
     United has an agreement with a syndicate of banks for a
$750 million revolving credit facility expiring in 2002.
Interest on drawn amounts under the facility is calculated
at floating rates based on the London interbank offered rate
("LIBOR") plus a margin which is subject to adjustment based
on certain changes in the credit ratings of United's long-
term senior unsecured debt.  Among other restrictions, the
credit facility contains a covenant that restricts United's
ability to grant liens on or otherwise encumber certain
identified assets with a market value of approximately $1.1
billion.

     Additionally, United has available $900 million in
short-term secured aircraft financing facilities.  Interest
on drawn amounts under the facilities is calculated at
floating rates based on LIBOR plus a margin.

     At December 31, 1999, United had outstanding $61
million under a separate short-term borrowing facility,
bearing an average interest rate of 5.72%.  Receivables
amounting to $233 million were pledged by United to secure
repayment of such outstanding borrowings.  The maximum
available borrowing amount under this arrangement is $227
million.

(9)  Long-Term Debt
     --------------
     A summary of long-term debt, including current
maturities, as of December 31 is as follows (interest rates
are as of December 31, 1999):


     In addition to scheduled principal payments, in 1999
the Company repaid $23 million in principal amount of
debentures prior to maturity.  The debentures were scheduled
to mature through 2021.  An extraordinary loss of $3
million, net of tax benefits of $2 million was recorded
reflecting amounts paid in excess of the debt carrying
value.

     In March 1998, the Company, through a special-purpose
financing entity that is consolidated, issued $604 million
of commercial paper to refinance certain lease commitments.
Although the issued commercial paper has short maturities,
the Company expects to continually rollover this obligation
throughout the 5-year life of its supporting liquidity
facility or bank standby facility.  As such, the commercial
paper is classified as a long-term obligation in the
Company's statement of financial position.

     In 1997, the California Statewide Communities
Development Authority (the "Authority") issued $190 million
in special facilities revenue bonds to finance the
acquisition and construction of certain facilities at the
Los Angeles International Airport  which United guarantees
payment of under a payment agreement with the Authority.
The bond proceeds are restricted to expenditures on the Los
Angeles facilities and unspent amounts are classified as
other assets in the balance sheet.

     At December 31, 1999, United had outstanding a total of
$1.307 billion of long-term debt bearing interest rates at
22 to 47.5 basis points over LIBOR.

     Maturities of long-term debt for each of the four years
after 2000 are:  2001 - $83 million; 2002 - $597 million;
2003 - $681 million; and 2004 - $302 million.  Various
assets, principally aircraft, having an aggregate book value
of $1.348 billion at December 31, 1999, were pledged as
security under various loan agreements.


(10)  Lease Obligations
      -----------------
     The Company leases aircraft, airport passenger terminal
space, aircraft hangars and related maintenance facilities,
cargo terminals, other airport facilities, real estate,
office and computer equipment and vehicles.

     Future minimum lease payments as of December 31, 1999,
under capital leases (substantially all of which are for
aircraft) and operating leases having initial or remaining
noncancelable lease terms of more than one year are as
follows:



     As of December 31, 1999, United leased 317 aircraft, 76
of which were under capital leases.  These leases have terms
of 10 to 26 years, and expiration dates range from 2000
through 2020.

     In connection with the financing of certain aircraft
accounted for as capital leases, United had on deposit at
December 31, 1999 an aggregate 39 billion yen ($379
million), 326 million German marks ($167 million), 64
million French francs ($10 million), 27 million Euro ($27
million) and $11 million in certain banks and had pledged an
irrevocable security interest in such deposits to certain of
the aircraft lessors.  These deposits will be used to pay
off an equivalent amount of recorded capital lease
obligations.

     Amounts charged to rent expense, net of minor amounts
of sublease rentals, were $1.412 billion in 1999, $1.385
billion in 1998 and $1.416 billion in 1997.  Included in
1999 rental expense was $11 million in contingent rentals,
resulting from changes in interest rates for operating
leases under which the rent payments are based on variable
interest rates.



(11)  Company-Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
      Securities of a Subsidiary Trust
      --------------------------------------------------
     In December 1996, UAL Corporation Capital Trust I (the
"Trust") issued $75 million of its 13 1/4% Trust Originated
Preferred Securities (the "Preferred Securities") in
exchange for 2,999,304 depositary shares, each representing
1/1000 of one share of Series B 12 1/4% preferred stock (see
Note 12).  Concurrent with the issuance of the Preferred
Securities and the related purchase by UAL of the Trust's
common securities, the Company issued to the Trust $77
million aggregate principal amount of its 13 1/4% Junior
Subordinated Debentures (the "Debentures") due 2026.  The
Debentures are and will be the sole assets of the Trust.
The interest and other payment dates on the Debentures
correspond to the distribution and other payment dates on
the Preferred Securities.  Upon maturity or redemption of
the Debentures, the Preferred Securities will be mandatorily
redeemed.  The Debentures are redeemable at UAL's option, in
whole or in part, on or after July 12, 2004, at a redemption
price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed,
plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
Upon the repayment of the Debentures, the proceeds thereof
will be applied to redeem the Preferred Securities.

     There is a full and unconditional guarantee by UAL of
the Trust's obligations under the securities issued by the
Trust.  However, the Company's obligations are subordinate
and junior in right of payment to certain other of its
indebtedness.  UAL has the right to defer payments of
interest on the Debentures by extending the interest payment
period, at any time, for up to 20 consecutive quarters.  If
interest payments on the Debentures are so deferred,
distributions on the Preferred Securities will also be
deferred.  During any deferral, distributions will continue
to accrue with interest thereon.  In addition, during any
such deferral, UAL may not declare or pay any dividend or
other distribution on, or redeem or purchase, any of its
capital stock.

     The fair value of the Preferred Securities at December
31, 1999 and 1998 was $83 and $90 million, respectively.

(12)  Serial Preferred Stock
      ----------------------
     At December 31, 1999, UAL had outstanding 3,203,177
depositary shares, each representing 1/1000 of one share of
Series B 12 1/4% preferred stock, with a liquidation
preference of $25 per depositary share ($25,000 per Series B
preferred share) and a stated capital of $0.01 per Series B
preferred share.  Under its terms, any portion of the Series
B preferred stock or the depositary shares is redeemable for
cash after July 11, 2004, at UAL's option, at the equivalent
of $25 per depositary share, plus accrued dividends.  The
Series B preferred stock is not convertible into any other
securities, has no stated maturity and is not subject to
mandatory redemption.

     The Series B preferred stock ranks senior to all other
preferred and common stock, except the Preferred Securities,
as to receipt of dividends and amounts distributed upon
liquidation.  The Series B preferred stock has voting rights
only to the extent required by law and with respect to
charter amendments that adversely affect the preferred stock
or the creation or issuance of any security ranking senior
to the preferred stock.  Additionally, if dividends are not
paid for six cumulative quarters, the Series B preferred
stockholders are entitled to elect two additional members to
the UAL Board of Directors until all dividends are paid in
full.  Pursuant to UAL's restated certificate of
incorporation, UAL is authorized to issue a total of 50,000
shares of Series B preferred stock.

     During 1998, UAL repurchased 64,300 depositary shares,
at an aggregate cost of $3 million, to be held in treasury.

     UAL is authorized to issue up to 15,986,584 additional
shares of serial preferred stock.

(13)  ESOP Preferred Stock
      --------------------
     The following activity related to UAL's outstanding
ESOP preferred stocks (see Note 2 for a description of the
ESOPs):


     An aggregate of 17,675,345 shares of Class 1 and Class
2 ESOP Preferred Stock will be issued to employees under the
ESOPs.  Each share of ESOP Preferred Stock is convertible
into four shares of UAL common stock and shares are
converted to common as employees retire or otherwise leave
the Company.  The stock has a par value of $0.01 per share
and is nonvoting.  The Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock has a
liquidation value of $126.96 per share plus all accrued and
unpaid dividends; the Class 2 does not have a liquidation
value.  The Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock provides a fixed
annual dividend of $8.8872 per share, which ceases on March
31, 2000; the Class 2 does not pay a fixed dividend.

     Class P, M and S Voting Preferred Stocks were
established to provide the voting power to the employee
groups participating in the ESOPs.  Additional Voting
Preferred Stock is issued as shares of the Class 1 and Class
2 ESOP Preferred Stock are allocated to employees.  In the
aggregate, 17,675,345 shares of Voting Preferred Stock will
be issued through the year 2000.  The Voting Preferred Stock
outstanding at any time commands voting power for
approximately 55% of the vote of all classes of capital
stock in all matters requiring a stockholder vote, other
than for the election of members of the Board of Directors.
The Voting Preferred Stock has a par value and liquidation
preference of $0.01 per share.  The stock is not entitled to
receive any dividends and is convertible into .0004 shares
of UAL common stock.

     Class Pilot MEC, IAM, SAM and I junior preferred stock
(collectively "Director Preferred Stocks") were established
to effectuate the election of one or more members to UAL's
Board of Directors.  One share each of Class Pilot MEC and
Class IAM junior preferred stock is authorized and issued.
The Company is authorized to issue ten shares each of Class
SAM and Class I junior preferred stock.  There are three
shares of Class SAM and four shares of Class I issued.  Each
of the Director Preferred Stocks has a par value and
liquidation preference of $0.01 per share.  The stock is not
entitled to receive any dividends and Class I will be
redeemed automatically upon the transfer of the shares to
any person not elected to the Board of Directors or upon the
occurrence of the "Sunset."

14)  Common Stockholders' Equity
     ---------------------------
     Changes in the number of shares of UAL common stock
outstanding during the years ended December 31 were as
follows:


     During 1999, 1998 and 1997, the Company repurchased
3,754,802, 7,061,109 and 2,881,092 shares of common stock,
respectively, at a total purchase price of $261 million,
$459 million and $250 million, respectively.

(15)  Stock Options and Awards
      ------------------------
     The Company has granted options to purchase common
stock to various officers and employees.  The option price
for all stock options is at least 100% of the fair market
value of UAL common stock at the date of grant.  Options
generally vest and become exercisable in four equal, annual
installments beginning one year after the date of grant, and
generally expire in ten years.

     As a result of the 1994 recapitalization, all
outstanding options became fully vested at the time of the
transaction and the holders of such options became eligible
to utilize the cashless exercise features of stock options.
Under a cashless exercise, the Company withholds, at the
election of the optionee, from shares that would otherwise
be issued upon exercise, that number of shares having a fair
market value equal to the exercise price and/or related
income taxes.  For outstanding options eligible for cashless
exercise, changes in the market price of the stock are
charged (credited) to earnings currently.  The expense
(credit) recorded for such eligible options was $4 million
in 1999, $(7) million in 1998 and $14 million in 1997.

     Stock options which were outstanding at the time of the
recapitalization are exercisable for shares of old common
stock, each of which is in turn converted into two shares of
new common stock and $84.81 in cash upon exercise.
Subsequent to the recapitalization, the Company granted
stock options which are exercisable for shares of new common
stock.

     The Company has also awarded shares of restricted stock
to officers and key employees.  These shares generally vest
over a five-year period and are subject to certain transfer
restrictions and forfeiture under certain circumstances
prior to vesting.  Unearned compensation, representing the
fair market value of the stock at the measurement date for
the award, is amortized to salaries and related costs over
the vesting period.  During 1999 and 1997, respectively,
75,000 and 5,000 shares of restricted stock were issued from
treasury.  No shares were issued in 1998.  As of December
31, 1999, 154,400 shares were restricted and still
nonvested.   Additionally, 277,250 shares were reserved for
future awards under the plan.

     SFAS No. 123 ("Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation") establishes a fair value based method of
accounting for stock options.  The Company has elected to
continue using the intrinsic value method of accounting
prescribed in APB 25, as permitted by SFAS No. 123.  Had
compensation cost for awards been determined based on the
fair value at the grant dates consistent with the method of
SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and earnings per
share would have instead been reported as the pro forma
amounts indicated below:


     The weighted-average grant date fair value of
restricted shares issued was $69.51 for shares issued in
1999 and $87.44 for shares issued in 1997.  The fair value
of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following assumptions:


     Stock option activity for the past three years was as
follows:




     The following information related to stock options
outstanding as of December 31, 1999:


(16)  Retirement and Postretirement Plans
      -----------------------------------
     The Company has various retirement plans, both defined
benefit and defined contribution, which cover substantially
all employees.  The Company also provides certain health
care benefits, primarily in the U.S., to retirees and
eligible dependents, as well as certain life insurance
benefits to retirees.  The Company has reserved the right,
subject to collective bargaining agreements, to modify or
terminate the health care and life insurance benefits for
both current and future retirees.

     The following table sets forth the reconciliation of
the beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation
and plan assets, the funded status and the amounts
recognized in the statement of financial position for the
defined benefit and other postretirement plans as of
December 31:









     The assumed health care cost trend rates for gross
claims paid were 4.0% and 5.0% for 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

     The net periodic benefit cost included the following
components:


     Total pension expense for all retirement plans
(including defined contribution plans) was $285 million in
1999, $304 million in 1998 and $229 million in 1997.

     The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit
obligation, and fair value of plan assets for the plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets
were $500 million, $444 million, and $47 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 1999, and $1.688 billion,
$1.510 billion, and $1.118 billion, respectively, as of
December 31, 1998.

     Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant
effect on the amounts reported for the health care plan.  A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care trend
rate would have the following effects:


     Changes in interest rates or rates of inflation may
impact the assumptions used in the valuation of pension
obligations and postretirement obligations including
discount rates and rates of increase in compensation,
resulting in increases or decreases in United's pension and
postretirement liabilities and pension and postretirement
costs.

(17)  Financial Instruments and Risk Management
      -----------------------------------------
     See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk ("Item 7A") for a discussion of the
Company's foreign currency and fuel price risk management
activities, and the fair value of all significant financial
instruments.

Credit Exposures of Derivatives
     The Company's theoretical risk in the derivative
financial instruments described in Item 7A is the cost of
replacing the contracts at current market rates in the event
of default by any of the counterparties.  However, the
Company does not anticipate such default as counterparties
are selected based on credit ratings and the relative market
positions with each counterparty are monitored.

Financial Guarantees
     Special facility revenue bonds have been issued by
certain municipalities to build or improve airport and
maintenance facilities leased by United.  Under the lease
agreements, United is required to make rental payments in
amounts sufficient to pay the maturing principal and
interest payments on the bonds.  At December 31, 1999,
$1.274 billion principal amount of such bonds was
outstanding.  As of December 31, 1999, UAL and United had
jointly guaranteed $35 million of such bonds and United had
guaranteed $1.258 billion of such bonds, including accrued
interest.  The payments required to satisfy these
obligations are included in the future minimum lease
payments disclosed in Note 10, "Lease Obligations."

Concentrations of Credit Risk
     The Company does not believe it is subject to any
significant concentration of credit risk.  Most of the
Company's receivables result from sales of tickets to
individuals through geographically dispersed travel agents,
company outlets or other airlines, often through the use of
major credit cards.  These receivables are short term,
generally being settled shortly after the sale.

(18)  Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Uncertainties
      -----------------------------------------------------
     The Company has certain contingencies resulting from
litigation and claims (including environmental issues)
incident to the ordinary course of business.  Management
believes, after considering a number of factors, including
(but not limited to) the views of legal counsel, the nature
of contingencies to which the Company is subject and its
prior experience, that the ultimate disposition of these
contingencies is not expected to materially affect UAL's
consolidated financial position or results of operations.
UAL records liabilities for legal and environmental claims
against it in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.  These amounts are recorded based on the
Company's assessments of the likelihood of their eventual
settlements.  The amounts of these liabilities could
increase or decrease in the near term, based on revisions to
estimates relating to the various claims.

     At December 31, 1999, commitments for the purchase of
property and equipment, principally aircraft, approximated
$4.4 billion, after deducting advance payments.  An
estimated $2.0 billion will be spent in 2000, $1.8 billion
in 2001 and $0.6 billion in 2002.   The major commitments
are for the purchase of A319, A320, B747, B767, and B777
aircraft, which are scheduled to be delivered through 2002.
These commitments, combined with aircraft retirements, are
part of the Company's plan to eventually increase the fleet
to an expected 645 aircraft at the end of 2001.

     In connection with the construction of the Indianapolis
Maintenance Center, United agreed to spend an aggregate $800
million on capital investments by the year 2001 and employ
at least 7,500 individuals by the year 2004.  In the event
such targets are not reached, United may be required to make
certain payments to the city of Indianapolis and state of
Indiana.

     Approximately 79% of United's employees are represented
by various labor organizations.  The labor contracts with
the Air Line Pilots' Association and the International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers become
amendable in April and July 2000, respectively.  The Company
is currently in the process of negotiating these contracts.
The contract with the Association of Flight Attendants
becomes amendable in 2006.  See Other Information, "Labor
Agreements and Wage Adjustments" in Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations for details.

(19)  Segment Information
      -------------------
     United has a global route network designed to transport
passengers and cargo between destinations in North America,
the Pacific, Latin America and Europe.  These regions
constitute United's four reportable segments.  The
accounting policies for each of these segments are the same
as those described in Note 1, "Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies," except that segment financial
information has been prepared using a management approach
which is consistent with how the Company's management
internally disaggregates financial information for the
purpose of making internal operating decisions.  UAL
evaluates performance based on United's fully distributed
earnings before income taxes and gains on sales.  Revenues
are attributed to each reportable segment based on the
allocation guidelines provided by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, which classifies flights between the U.S.
and foreign designations as part of each respective region.
A reconciliation of the total amounts reported by reportable
segments to the applicable amounts in the financial
statements follows:








     UAL's operations involve an insignificant level of
dedicated revenue producing assets by reportable segment.
The overwhelming majority of UAL's revenue producing assets
can be deployed in any of the four reportable segments.  UAL
has significant intangible assets related to the acquisition
of its Atlantic and Latin America route authorities.

(20)  Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows - Supplemental
      Disclosures
      ---------------------------------------------------
     Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information and
non-cash investing and financing activities were as follows:


(21)  Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
      ---------------------------------------------


     The sum of quarterly earnings per share amounts is not
the same as annual earnings per share amounts because of
changing numbers of shares outstanding.

     During the second quarter of 1999, UAL recognized a pre-
tax gain of $669 million on the sale of a portion of its
investment in Galileo.  Additionally, in the fourth quarter
1999, UAL recognized a pre-tax gain of $62 million on the
sale of a portion of its investment in Equant.  (See Note 6,
"Investments").



ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.


                            PART III
                            --------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Information regarding the
executive officers is included in Part I of this Form 10-K under
the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant."


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
          AND MANAGEMENT.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.


                             PART IV
                             -------

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
          ON FORM 8-K.

(a)  1.   Financial Statements.  The financial statements
required by this item are listed in Item 8, "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data" herein.

     2.   Financial Statement Schedules.  The financial statement
schedule required by this item is listed below and included in
this report after the signature page hereto.

     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the
     years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997.

     All other schedules are omitted because they are not
     applicable, not required or the required information is
     shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes
     thereto.

     3.   Exhibits.  The exhibits required by this item are
listed in the Exhibit Index which immediately precedes the
exhibits filed with this Form 10-K, and is incorporated herein by
this reference.  Each of Exhibits 10.30 through 10.41 listed in
the Exhibit Index is a management contract or compensatory plan
or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit pursuant to
Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

     Form 8-K dated October 19, 1999 to report a press release in
which UAL Corporation announced a strategic investment in Air
Canada.

     Form 8-K dated October 20, 1999 to report a cautionary
statement for purposes of the "Safe Harbor for Forward Looking
Statements" provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act.



                           SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, on the 24th day of February 2000.

                         UAL CORPORATION



                              By:  /s/ James E. Goodwin
                                   --------------------
                                   James E. Goodwin
                                   Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                   Executive Officer




Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below on the 24th day of
February 2000 by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated.



/s/ James E. Goodwin                  /s/ Douglas A. Hacker
- --------------------                  ---------------------
James E. Goodwin                      Douglas A. Hacker
Chairman of the Board and Chief       Executive Vice President and
Executive Officer (principal          Chief Financial Officer
executive officer)                    (principal financial and
                                      accounting officer)

/s/ Rono Dutta                        /s/ Hazel R. O'Leary
- --------------                        --------------------
Rono Dutta                            Hazel R. O'Leary
Director                              Director

/s/ John W. Creighton, Jr.            /s/ Deval L. Patrick
- --------------------------            --------------------
John W. Creighton, Jr.                Deval L. Patrick
Director                              Director

/s/ Frederick C. Dubinsky             /s/ John F. Peterpaul
- -------------------------             ---------------------
Frederick C. Dubinsky                 John F. Peterpaul
Director                              Director

/s/ Richard D. McCormick              /s/ Paul E. Tierney, Jr.
- ------------------------              ------------------------
Richard D. McCormick                  Paul E. Tierney, Jr.
Director                              Director

/s/ John F. McGillicuddy              /s/ John K. Van de Kamp
- ------------------------              -----------------------
John F. McGillicuddy                  John K. Van de Kamp
Director                              Director

/s/ James J. O'Connor
- ---------------------
James J. O'Connor
Director






                    UAL Corporation and Subsidiary Companies

                 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1999





                                                      F-1
- ---------------------
(1) Deduction from reserve for purpose for which reserve was created.





                    UAL Corporation and Subsidiary Companies

                 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1998





                                                      F-2

- ------------------------
(1) Deduction from reserve for purpose for which reserve was created.



                    UAL Corporation and Subsidiary Companies

                 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                      For the Year Ended December 31, 1997





                                             F-3


- ----------------------
(1) Includes deduction from reserve due to the sale of the Apollo Travel
     Services Partnership.
(2) Deduction from reserve for purpose for which reserve was created.

                          EXHIBIT INDEX
                          -------------

 3.1    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of UAL Corporation
        ("UAL"), as amended (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to UAL's Form
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 3.2    By-laws (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 1999 and incorporated herein
        by reference).

 4.1    Deposit Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994 between UAL
        Corporation and holders from time to time of Depository
        Receipts described herein (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to UAL's
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 4.2    Indenture dated as of December 20, 1996 between UAL
        Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago, as
        Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to UAL's Form 10-K for the
        year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by
        reference).

 4.3    Officer's Certificate relating to UAL's 13-1/4% Junior
        Subordinated Debentures due 2026 (filed as Exhibit 4.3
        to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996
        and incorporated herein by reference).

 4.4    Form of UAL's 13-1/4% Junior Subordinated Debenture due
        2026 (filed as Exhibit 4.4 to UAL's Form 10-K for the
        year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by
        reference).

 4.5    Guarantee Agreement dated as of December 30, 1996 with
        respect to the 13-1/4% Trust Originated Preferred
        Securities of UAL Corporation Capital Trust I (filed as
        Exhibit 4.5 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

 4.6    Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of UAL
        Corporation Capital Trust I dated as of December 30,
        1996 (filed as Exhibit 4.6 to UAL's Form 10-K for year
        ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by
        reference).

        UAL's indebtedness under any single instrument does not
        exceed 10% of UAL's total assets on a consolidated
        basis.  Copies of such instruments will be furnished to
        the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

 10.1   Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of
        Recapitalization, dated as of March 25, 1994 (the
        "Recapitalization Agreement"), as amended, among UAL
        Corporation, the Air Line Pilots Association,
        International ("ALPA") and the International Association
        of Machinists and Aerospace Workers ("IAM") (filed as
        Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 8-K dated June
        2, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference; amendment
        thereto filed as Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 8-K dated
        June 29, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.2   Agreement, dated as of July 16, 1996, pursuant to
        Section 1.6q of the Recapitalization Agreement among
        UAL, ALPA and IAM (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.3   UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan, effective
        as of July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.4   First Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated December 28, 1994 (filed as
        Exhibit 10.39 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated herein
        by reference).

 10.5   Second Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated as of August 17, 1995 (filed as
        Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        September 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
        reference).

 10.6   Third Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated as of December 28, 1995 (filed as
        Exhibit 10.7 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.7   Fourth Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated as of July 16, 1996 (filed as
        Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        June 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.8   Fifth Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated as of December 31, 1996 (filed as
        Exhibit 10.10 of UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.9   Sixth Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated as of August 11, 1997 (filed as
        Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        September 30, 1997, as amended, and incorporated herein
        by reference).

 10.10  Seventh Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated as of May 19, 1999.

 10.11  Eighth Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated as of November 10, 1999.

 10.12  Ninth Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock
        Ownership Plan, dated as of October 29, 1999.

 10.13  UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust
        Agreement between UAL Corporation and State Street Bank
        and Trust Company ("State Street"), effective July 12,
        1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
        by reference).

 10.14  UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP, effective as of July
        12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated
        herein by reference).

 10.15  First Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated February 22, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995, as
        amended, and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.16  Second Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated as of August 17, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
        UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995
        and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.17  Third Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated as of December 28, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to
        UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.18  Fourth Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated as of July 16, 1996 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
        UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.19  Fifth Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated as of December 31, 1996 (filed as Exhibit 10.17 to
        UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.20  Sixth Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated as of August 11, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.4 of
        UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
        1997, as amended, and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.21  Seventh Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated as of May 19, 1999.

 10.22  Eighth Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated as of November 10, 1999.

 10.23  Ninth Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP,
        dated as of October 29, 1999.

 10.24  UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP Trust Agreement
        between UAL Corporation and State Street, effective July
        12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated
        herein by reference).

 10.25  Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of August
        12, 1998, between UAL Corporation and State Street Bank
        and Trust Company (filed as Exhibit 10.21 of UAL's Form
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).

 10.26  Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of August
        12, 1999, between UAL Corporation and State Street Bank
        and Trust Company.

 10.27  Class I Junior Preferred Stockholders' Agreement, dated
        as of June 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to UAL's
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.28  Class SAM Preferred Stockholders' Agreement, dated as of
        July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to UAL's Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.29  First Refusal Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1994, as
        amended (filed as Exhibit 10.25 to UAL's Form 10-K for
        the year ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein
        by reference).

 10.30  UAL Corporation 1981 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended
        March 26, 1998 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 and incorporated
        herein by reference).

 10.31  UAL Corporation 1998 Restricted Stock Plan (filed as
        Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        June 30, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.32  UAL Corporation Incentive Compensation and Profit
        Sharing Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 and incorporated
        herein by reference).

 10.33  United Employees Performance Incentive Plan

 10.34  Summary Description of Compensation and Benefits for
        Directors.

 10.35  UAL Corporation 1995 Directors Plan, as amended June 26,
        1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 1997, as amended, and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.36  United Supplemental Retirement Plan (filed as Exhibit
        10.35 of UAL's 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998
        and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.37  Description of Officer Benefits (filed as Exhibit 10.36
        of UAL's 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.38  Employment Agreement, dated as of April 12, 1999,
        between UAL Corporation, United Air Lines, Inc. and
        James E. Goodwin (filed as Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 10-
        Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999 and incorporated
        herein by reference).

 10.39  Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement, dated as of
        April 5, 1999, between UAL Corporation and Gerald
        Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.2 of UAL's Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended June 30, 1999 and incorporated herein
        by reference).

 10.40  Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, dated as of July 13,
        1999, between UAL Corporation (together with its wholly
        owned subsidiary, United Air Lines, Inc.) and each of
        Rono Dutta, Douglas A. Hacker, and Andrew P. Studdert
        (filed as Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 1999 and incorporated herein
        by reference).

 10.41  Form of Severance Agreement between UAL Corporation and
        certain officers (filed as Exhibit 10.37 of UAL's Form
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 and
        incorporated herein by reference).

 10.42  Supplemental Agreement No. 8, dated as of February 10,
        1999, to the Agreement dated December 18, 1990, between
        The Boeing Company and United (and United Worldwide
        Corporation) for acquisition of Boeing 777-200 aircraft
        (as previously amended and supplemented, the "777-200
        Purchase Agreement" (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to UAL's Form
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, and
        incorporated herein by reference; supplements thereto
        filed as (i) Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.22 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993, (ii) Exhibit
        10.2 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1993, (iii) Exhibit 10.14 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended June 30, 1994, (iv) Exhibits 10.27 and
        10.28 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1994, (v) Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended March 31, 1995, (vi) Exhibits 10.4,
        through 10.6 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        June 30, 1995, (vii) Exhibits 10.37 through 10.40 to
        UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
        (viii) Exhibits 10.9 through 10.12 and 10.17 through
        10.19 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
        1996, (ix) Exhibit 10.38 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 1998, (x) Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999, and (xi) and
        Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        September 30, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference)).

 10.43  Supplemental Agreement No. 13, dated as of February 10,
        1999, to the Agreement dated December 18, 1990, between
        The Boeing Company and United for acquisition of Boeing
        747-400 aircraft (as previously amended and
        supplemented, the "747-400 Purchase Agreement" (filed as
        Exhibit 10.8 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1990, and incorporated herein by reference;
        supplements thereto filed as (i) Exhibits 10.4 and 10.5
        to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991,
        (ii) Exhibits 10.3 through 10.6 and Exhibit 10.22 to
        UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993,
        (iii) Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1993, (iv) Exhibit 10.14 to UAL's Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended June 30, 1994, (v) Exhibits 10.29
        and 10.30 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December
        31, 1994, (vi) Exhibits 10.4 through 10.8 to UAL's
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995,
        (vii) Exhibits 10.7 and 10.8 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended June 30, 1995, (viii) Exhibit 10.41 to
        UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
        (ix) Exhibits 10.4 through 10.8 and Exhibit 10.17 to
        UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996, (x)
        Exhibits 10.1 through 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended March 31, 1997, (xi) Exhibits 10.47 and
        10.48 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1998, and (xii) Exhibit 10.2 of UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended March 31, 1999, and incorporated herein by
        reference)).

 10.44  Letter Agreement No. 6-1162-PJG-064, Pratt and Whitney
        Engine Model PW4074 Surge Mapping, dated as of December
        8, 1999, to Purchase Agreement No. 1663 dated December
        18, 1990, between Boeing and United Air Lines, Inc. for
        acquisition of Boeing 777-200 aircraft. (as previously
        amended and supplemented, the "777-200 Purchase
        Agreement" (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to UAL's Form 10-K for
        the year ended December 31, 1990, and incorporated
        herein by reference; supplements thereto filed as (i)
        Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.22 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended June 30, 1993, (ii) Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, (iii)
        Exhibit 10.14 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        June 30, 1994, (iv) Exhibits 10.27 and 10.28 to UAL's
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, (v)
        Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended March 31, 1995, (vi) Exhibits 10.4,
        through 10.6 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        June 30, 1995, (vii) Exhibits 10.37 through 10.40 to
        UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
        (viii) Exhibits 10.9 through 10.12 and 10.17 through
        10.19 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
        1996, (ix) Exhibit 10.38 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 1998, (x) Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999, and (xi) and
        Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        September 30, 1999.  (Exhibit 10.44 hereto is filed with
        a request for confidential treatment of certain portions
        thereof.)

 12     Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

 12.1   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
        Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.

 21     List of UAL's subsidiaries

 23     Consent of Independent Public Accountants

 27     Financial Data Schedule

 99     Annual Report on Form 11-K for Employees' Stock Purchase
        Plan of UAL Corporation





