
10-K





                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        Washington, DC 20549
                              FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1994 or
[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the transition period from                to

Commission File No. 1-6033
                          UAL CORPORATION
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                                 36-2675207
(State or other jurisdiction of                     (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

Location: 1200 Algonquin Road, Elk Grove Township, Illinois   60007
Mailing Address: P. O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois           60666
(Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code   (708) 952-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
            TITLE OF EACH CLASS               ON WHICH REGISTERED

        Common Stock ($.01 par value)          New York, Chicago and
                                               Pacific Stock Exchanges

        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights        New York, Chicago and
                                               Pacific Stock Exchanges
        Depositary Shares representing
        interests in Registrant's Series
        B Preferred Stock, without par value   New York Stock Exchange
        
        6-3/8% Convertible Subordinated 
        Debentures due 2025                    New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section  12(g) of the Act:

                                  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.
                         Yes   X         No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.[ ]

The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of March 1, 1995
was 12,434,865.  The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was $1,178,423,998 as of
March 1, 1995.

Part III information shall be incorporated by reference from the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders or shall be added hereto by an amendment to this Form
10-K, in either case within the time required by the instructions to
Form 10-K.



                             PART I                           

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS.

     Introduction

     UAL Corporation ("UAL" or the "Company") was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968.
The world headquarters of the Company are located at 1200
Algonquin Road, Elk Grove Township, Illinois  60007.  The
Company's mailing address is P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois
60666.  The telephone number for the Company is (708) 952-4000.

     The Company is a holding company and its principal
subsidiary is United Air Lines, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("United"), which is wholly-owned.  United accounted for
virtually all of the Company's revenues and expenses in 1994.
United is a major commercial air transportation company.

     Employee Investment Transaction and Recapitalization

     On July 12, 1994, the stockholders of the Company approved
and adopted the Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of
Recapitalization, dated as of March 25, 1994, among UAL, the Air
Line Pilots Association, International and the International
Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (the
"Recapitalization"), that provides an approximately 55% equity
and voting interest in the Company to certain employees of United
in exchange for wage concessions and work-rule changes.  The
employees' equity interest will be allocated to individual
employee accounts through the year 2000 under Employee Stock
Ownership Plans ("ESOPs") which were created as a part of the
Recapitalization.  The entire 55% ESOP voting interest generally
will be voted by the ESOP trustee at the direction of, and on
behalf of, the employees participating in the ESOPs. In
connection with the Recapitalization, holders of the Company's
old common stock received approximately $2.1 billion in cash and
the remaining 45% of the equity in the form of Common Stock.
Each share of old common stock was converted into one-half share
of Common Stock and cash in lieu of fractional shares plus a cash
payment of $84.81.  In connection with the Recapitalization,
United issued $370 million of 10.67% debentures due in 2004 and
$371 million of 11.21% debentures due 2014 and the Company issued
Series B 12-1/4% preferred stock with an aggregate liquidation
preference of $410 million.  In addition, in connection with the
consummation of the plan of Recapitalization, the Rights
Agreement was amended to provide, among other things, for one
right to purchase shares of the Company's Series C Junior
Participating Preferred Stock to be attached to and issued with
each share of Common Stock, including shares of Common Stock into
which the preferred stock held in the ESOPs is convertible.

     Airline Operations

     United has been engaged in the air transportation of per-
sons, property and mail since 1934, and certain of its
predecessors began operations as early as 1926.  United is the
world's largest employee-owned airline and one of the world's
largest airlines as measured by operating revenues, revenue
passengers and revenue passenger miles flown.  At the end of
1994, United served 152 airports in the United States and 29
foreign countries.  During 1994, United averaged 2,004 departures
daily, flew a total of 108 billion revenue passenger miles, and
carried an average of 203,400 passengers per day.

     United provides its domestic and international service
principally through a system of hub airports at major cities.
Each hub provides United flights to a network of spoke
destinations as well as flights to the other United hubs.  This
arrangement permits travelers to fly from point of origin to more
destinations without changing carriers.  Currently, United flies
from four U.S. hubs - Chicago-O'Hare International, Denver
International, San Francisco International, and Dulles
International near Washington, D.C. - and is the principal
carrier at each of these hubs.  United also has a Pacific hub
operation at Tokyo Narita Airport.  During the last several
years, United has strengthened the revenue-generating capability
of the hub airports by:  (1) adding new spokes (routes to new
cities and airports); (2) adding frequency on previously operated
route segments; and (3) entering into marketing agreements with
smaller U.S. air carriers which serve less populated destinations
and with foreign carriers which serve destinations that United
could not serve itself for economic or regulatory reasons.

     United has developed a route system covering North America,
Asia, the South Pacific, Europe and Latin America.

     Within North America, East-West traffic is served by nonstop
transcontinental flights and by the hubs at Chicago O'Hare and
Denver, while North-South traffic on the West Coast is served by
the San Francisco hub.

     In October 1994, United launched a new service designed to
be cost competitive on routes under 750 miles.  Named "Shuttle by
United", this service achieves lower costs through special work
rules and wage rates for pilots, high station and aircraft
utilization and minimal service amenities.  As of February 1995,
Shuttle by United was operating daily 342 flights on 15 routes
between 10 West Coast cities and, as of April 1995, expects to be
operating 378 flights on 16 routes between 11 cities.

     United has a marketing program in North America with
selected independent regional air carriers, known as the United
Express program, which allows United to increase the number of
destinations served by its hub-and-spoke network.  Six regional
carriers currently participate in the United Express marketing
program providing connecting schedules to ten major cities also
served by United.

     United also has marketing agreements that provide for
sharing of the "UA" code on certain routes with three other
independent domestic air carriers.  Code-sharing allows an
airline to expand the marketing of its service brand by using its
two-letter designator code in computer reservations systems on a
connecting flight operated by another airline on the itinerary.
Also, North American traffic is served by code-sharing agreements
United has with two independent Caribbean air carriers.

     Asian traffic is served from six U.S. cities via the Tokyo
hub and with nonstop flights from San Francisco to Hong Kong,
Osaka, Seoul and Taipei; from Honolulu to Osaka; and from Los
Angeles to Hong Kong and Osaka.  South Pacific traffic to Sydney
is served from Los Angeles and San Francisco, while traffic to
Auckland and Melbourne is served from Los Angeles.  In December
1994, service began from Guam and Saipan to Osaka and from Guam
to Saipan, further strengthening United's presence at Osaka's new
Kansai International Airport which opened September 4, 1994.  In
addition, United plans to initiate service between the U.S. and
Ho Chi Minh City via an intermediate point as soon as government
approvals are received.  United also has code-sharing agreements
with two independent South Pacific air carriers.  Based on
reports filed with the Department of Transportation, United was
the leading U.S. carrier in the Pacific in 1994 in terms of
revenue passenger miles and available seat miles.  During 1994,
United's Pacific Division accounted for 22% of United's revenues.

     Service between the U.S. and Europe is provided by:  flights
from six U.S. cities (five after Seattle service is discontinued
in April 1995) to London, with connecting service at
London to Amsterdam and Brussels; flights from four U.S. cities
to Paris; nonstop service from Dulles to Amsterdam, Brussels,
Frankfurt, Madrid, Milan/Rome and Zurich; and nonstop service
from Chicago to Frankfurt.  European traffic is also served by
United's code-sharing agreements with three independent air
carriers, including Germany's flag carrier, Lufthansa.

     United's comprehensive marketing agreement with Lufthansa
began during 1994.  This worldwide alliance involves, among other
things, coordination of scheduling, ground handling, frequent
flyer programs and other passenger services, and allows, among
other things, code-sharing between the two airlines on
Transatlantic route segments, and permits United to code-share on
Lufthansa flights in certain markets beyond Lufthansa's European
gateways.  Similarly, the agreement permits Lufthansa to code-
share on United flights to certain cities in the U.S.  As of
February 1995, the list of markets includes 43 city pairs in
which United places its code on flight segments operated by
Lufthansa and Lufthansa places its code on 30 flight segments
operated by United.  Code-share segments include North America,
Europe, Africa and the Middle East.

     Service between the U.S. and Latin America is provided by
flights to eleven Latin American cities in nine countries from a
number of cities in the U.S.  Eight Latin American cities are
served nonstop from Miami, two nonstop from Los Angeles, and
three from New York-Kennedy.  In addition, United expects to
commence daily nonstop service in the summer of 1995 to Belo
Horizonte, Brazil from Miami.  United has code-sharing agreements
with two independent air carriers in this region.

     Operating revenues attributed to United's foreign operations
were approximately $4.9 billion in 1994, $4.5 billion in 1993 and
$3.9 billion in 1992.

     Selected Operating Statistics
                                  
      The following table sets forth certain selected operating
data for United:


(a)  "Revenue aircraft miles" means the number of miles flown in
revenue producing service.
(b)  "Available seat miles" represents the number of seats
available for passengers multiplied by the number of miles those
seats are flown.
(c)  "Revenue passenger miles" represents the number of miles
flown by revenue passengers.
(d)  "Passenger load factor" represents revenue passenger miles
divided by available seat miles.
(e)  "Break-even load factor" represents the number of revenue
passenger miles at which operating earnings would have been zero
(based on the actual average yield) divided by available seat
miles.
(f)  "Average yield per revenue passenger mile" represents the
average revenue received for each mile a revenue passenger is
carried.
(g)  "Cost per available seat mile" represents operating expenses
divided by available seat miles.
(h)  "Average daily utilization of each aircraft" means the
average air hours flown in service per day per aircraft for the
total fleet of aircraft.


     Industry Conditions

     Seasonal and Other Factors.   The Company's results of
operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of
those for an entire year, since the air travel business is
subject to seasonal fluctuations.  United's first and fourth
quarter results normally are affected by reduced travel demand in
the fall and winter, and United's operations, particularly at its
O'Hare and Denver hubs, are often affected adversely by winter
weather.  In the past, these fluctuations have generally resulted
in better operating results for United and, thus, the Company, in
the second and third quarters.  See Item 8, "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data," for summarized unaudited financial data
for the four quarters of 1994 and 1993.

     The results of operations in the air travel business have
also fluctuated significantly in the past in response to general
economic conditions.  In addition, the airline business is
characterized by a high degree of operating leverage.  As a
result, the economic environment and small fluctuations in
United's yield per revenue passenger mile and cost per available
seat mile can have a significant impact on operating results.
The Company anticipates that seasonal factors and general
economic conditions, in addition to industrywide fare levels,
labor and fuel costs, the competition from other airlines,
international government policies, and other factors, will
continue to impact United's operations.

     Competition and Fares.  The airline industry is highly
competitive.  In domestic markets, new and existing carriers are
free to initiate service on any route.  United faces competition
from other carriers on virtually every route it serves.  In
United's domestic markets, these competitors include all of the
other major U.S. airlines as well as smaller carriers.

     United's marketing strategy is driven by four principal
competitive factors: schedule convenience, overall customer
service, frequent flyer programs and price.  United seeks to
attract travelers through convenient scheduling, high quality
service, frequent flyer programs designed to reward customer
loyalty, and competitive pricing.

     During the past few years, certain domestic carriers
reorganized their operating cost structures.  These carriers,
together with more recent entrants to the airline business, and a
select number of established domestic carriers, have had cost
structures which were significantly lower than United's, and
therefore may have been able to operate profitably at lower fare
levels.  Furthermore, certain carriers in the short haul domestic
markets have been able to compete against major air carriers,
including United, by operating without as great a reliance upon a
hub-and-spoke system.  These airlines operate efficiently through
strategies such as rapid turnaround of flights on a point-to-
point basis.  United's response to these competitive pressures
has been the consummation of the employee investment transaction
which allowed United to lower its labor costs and to introduce
the Shuttle by United, a low cost point-to-point service
operating in the West Coast.

     From time to time, excess aircraft capacity and other
factors such as the cash needs of financially distressed carriers
induce airlines to engage in "fare wars."  Such factors can have
a material adverse impact on the Company's revenues.  The Company
maintains yield and inventory management programs designed to
manage the number of seats offered in various fare categories in
order to enhance the effectiveness of fare promotions and
maximize revenue production on each flight.

     In its international markets, United competes with major
U.S. carriers as well as investor-owned, government-subsidized
and national flag carriers of foreign countries.  Competition in
certain international markets is subject to varying degrees of
governmental regulation (see "Government Regulation"), and in
certain instances United's foreign competitors enjoy subsidies
and other forms of governmental support which are not available
to U.S. carriers.

     United and other U.S. carriers have certain advantages over
foreign air carriers in their ability to generate U.S.-origin-
destination traffic from their integrated domestic route systems.
In addition, foreign carriers are prohibited by law from carrying
local passengers between two points in the United States.

     However, the U.S. carriers are in many cases constrained
from carrying passengers to points beyond designated gateway
cities in foreign countries due to limitations in the bilateral
air service agreements with such countries or restrictions
imposed unilaterally by the foreign governments.  To the extent
that foreign competitors can offer more connecting services to
points beyond these gateway cities, they have an advantage in
attracting traffic moving between these foreign points and in
attracting traffic moving between such cities and points in the
United States.  Also, several foreign air carriers have sought
and obtained access to the U.S. domestic market through
substantial equity investments and code sharing arrangements with
U.S. airlines.  The comprehensive marketing agreement with
Lufthansa has enhanced the Company's competitive position in
international markets.

     To improve profitability, in late 1994 United announced
discontinuation of all service to 15 destinations.  This included
three European, seven domestic and five Latin America
destinations.

     No material part of the business of United, or of the
Company and its subsidiaries, is dependent upon a single customer
or very few customers.  Consequently, the loss of the few largest
customers of United, or of the Company, would not have a material
adverse effect on the Company.

     Airport Access.  United's operations at its principal
domestic hub, Chicago-O'Hare International Airport ("O'Hare"), as
well as at three other airports, Kennedy, New York LaGuardia
("LaGuardia"), and Washington National ("National"), are limited
by the "high density traffic airports rule" administered by the
Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA").   Under this rule, take-
off and landing rights ("slots") required for the conduct of
domestic flight operations may be bought, sold or traded.  As of
December 31, 1994, United held 754 domestic air carrier slots at
O'Hare, 34 at National, 62 at LaGuardia and 11 at Kennedy.  In
addition, Air Wisconsin, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, held or owned the beneficial interest
in 38 air carrier slots and 118 commuter slots at O'Hare which
are either operated by United or leased to United Express
carriers serving O'Hare.  Under the high density rule carriers
are required to relinquish slots to the FAA for reallocation if
they fail to meet certain minimum use standards.

     Slots for international services at O'Hare are allocated by
the FAA seasonally to both U.S. and foreign carriers based upon
the carriers' historic operations and requests for additional
capacity.  The FAA holds a certain number of slots in reserve for
this purpose.  Slots over that number are provided through the
withdrawal of domestic slots from carriers at O'Hare and the
reallocation of those slots for international operations of
requesting carriers. The FAA prohibits domestic carriers with
more than 100 slots from using another carrier's slots for its
own international operations.  United has lost as many as 33
daily slots - that is, slots that were being used by United three
days or more per week - during a single operating season.

     Congress capped for fiscal year 1995 the number of slots
that could be withdrawn from U.S. carriers for allocation to
international operations.  United currently has a sufficient
number and distribution of slots it holds at airports subject to
the high density rule to support its current operations.  There
can be no assurance, however, that additional slots sufficient to
accommodate otherwise desirable service expansions will be
available to United on satisfactory terms in the future.  The FAA
is preparing a comprehensive review of its slot rules, and
rulemaking proceedings proposing changes to the rules are
expected to follow.  If an alternative to the current system were
to be adopted, no assurance can be given that such alternative
would preserve United's investment in slots already acquired or
that slots adequate for future operations would be available.

     United currently has a sufficient number of leased gates and
other airport facilities at the cities it serves to meet its
current and near term needs.  From time to time, expansion by
United at certain airports may be constrained by insufficient
availability of gates on attractive terms.  United's ability to
expand its international operations in Asia, the South Pacific,
Europe and Latin America is subject to restrictions at many of
the airports in these regions, including noise curfews, slot
controls and absence of adequate airport facilities.

     Mileage Plus Program.  United operates a frequent flyer
marketing program known as "Mileage Plus" wherein credits are
earned by flying on United or using the services of one of the
other airlines, credit card companies, car rental agencies and
hotels (the "Partners") participating in the Mileage Plus
program.  Mileage Plus, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, administers frequent flyer bonus programs for United.
The program is designed to enable United to retain and increase
the business of frequent travelers.  Credits earned under the
program may be exchanged at certain plateaus for free travel or
service upgrades on United or for use with one or more of the
Partners.

     In November 1994, United implemented a new marketing
program, "Mileage Plus Reward Miles", that can be used by
companies as incentives for their employees or customers.  Reward
Miles certificates can be purchased in three denominations:  60
certificates good for 500 miles each for $600;  30 certificates
good for 1,000 miles each for $600;  and 15 certificates good for
5,000 miles each for $1,500, subject to a minimum purchase
requirement and processing fee.  Recipients of Reward Miles can
generally have the certificates credited to their Mileage Plus
personal accounts.

     When an award level is attained, a liability is recorded for
the incremental costs of accrued credits under the Mileage Plus
program based on the expected redemptions.  United's incremental
costs include the costs of providing service for an otherwise
vacant seat including fuel, meals, certain incremental personnel
and ticketing costs.  The incremental costs do not include any
contribution to overhead or profit.  Awards earned after July
1989 have an expiration date three years from date earned.  The
program also contains certain restrictive provisions, including
blackout dates and capacity controlled bookings, which
substantially limit the use of the awards on certain flights.
  
     Effective February 10, 1995, United increased the mileage
levels for Mileage Plus domestic award travel on a prospective
basis requiring 25,000 miles, instead of the previous level,
20,000 miles, for award tickets issued for economy class travel
within the continental United States.  In addition, United made
certain other mileage award level changes as well as a change to
a bank-account type of system to track mileage.

     Lawsuits challenging these changes are pending in Illinois.
United believes that it has the right to make the aforementioned
changes to its program and is defending itself vigorously in the
pending litigation.  However, an adverse court decision could
restrict United's ability to alter award levels now or in the
future.

     At December 31, 1994 and 1993, it was estimated that the
total number of outstanding awards was approximately 7.8 million
and 7.7 million, respectively.  United estimated that 5.8 million
and 5.8 million, respectively, of such awards could be expected
to be redeemed and, accordingly, had recorded a liability
amounting to $195 million and $205 million, respectively, at
December 31, 1994 and 1993.  The difference between the awards
expected to be redeemed and the total awards outstanding is the
estimate, based on historical data, of awards (1) which will
never be redeemed, (2) which will be redeemed for other than free
trips, or (3) which will be redeemed on Partner carriers.

     The number of awards used on United were 1.9 million, 1.6
million and 1.4 million for the years 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  Such awards represented 9.1%, 7.5% and 6.7% of
United's total revenue passenger miles for each period, res
pectively.  With these percentages, seat availability and
restrictions on the use of free travel awards, the displacement,
if any, of revenue passengers by users of Mileage Plus awards is
minimal.

     United has agreements with certain air carriers and other
parties to utilize the Mileage Plus program and receives and
makes payments based on the earning and redemption of awards by
Mileage Plus participants with such parties.
  
     Computer Reservations Systems.  Travel agents account for a
substantial percentage of United's sales.  The complexity of the
various schedules and fares offered by air carriers has fostered
the development of electronic distribution systems that display
information relating the fares and schedules of United and other
airlines to travel agents and others.  The use of such systems
has been a key factor in the marketing and distribution of
airlines' products and has been subject to regulation by the
Department of Justice.  See "Government Regulation - General".

     Before September 1993, United had an ownership interest in
two entities which owned and marketed computer reservation system
("CRS") products and services.  In September 1993, The Covia
Partnership ("Covia"), a 50%-owned affiliate of United, and The
Galileo Company Limited, a 25.6%-owned affiliate of United,
combined.  In the combination Covia was renamed as Galileo
International Partnership ("Galileo"), and a second entity, the
Apollo Travel Services Partnership ("ATS"), was formed.  These
two general partnerships are owned 38% and 77%, respectively, by
United through a wholly-owned subsidiary.

     Galileo owns the Apollo and Galileo CRSs and markets CRS
services worldwide through a system of national distribution
companies.  ATS, directly or through its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, is responsible for marketing, sales and support of
Apollo CRS products and services in the United States, Mexico and
the Caribbean.  

Competition among CRS vendors is intense, and services
similar to those offered by ATS and Galileo are marketed by
several air carriers and other concerns, both in the United
States and worldwide.  In the European and Pacific CRS market,
various consortia of foreign carriers have formed CRSs to be
marketed in countries in which the owning carriers have a
substantial presence.

     In February 1995, United announced that it is introducing a
new travel agency commission payment plan that offers a maximum
of $50 for round-trip or multiple stopover domestic tickets and a
maximum of $25 for one-way domestic tickets.

     Lawsuits have been filed challenging the reductions by
United and other carriers in the commissions paid to travel
agencies for ticketing of air transportation alleging, among
other things, a conspiracy to restrain trade among the carriers
in violation of antitrust laws.  United believes it has the right
to make the aforementioned changes to such commissions, and will
defend itself vigorously in the pending litigation.

     Government Regulation
  
     General.  All carriers engaged in air transportation in the
United States, including United, are subject to regulation by the
Department of Transportation ("DOT") and the Federal Aviation
Administration ("FAA") under federal aviation laws.  The DOT has
authority to regulate certain economic and consumer protection
aspects of air transportation.  It is empowered to issue
certificates of public convenience and necessity for domestic air
transportation upon a carrier's showing of fitness; to authorize
the provision of foreign air transportation by U.S. carriers; to
prohibit unjust discrimination; to prescribe forms of accounts
and require reports from air carriers; to regulate methods of
competition, including the provision and use of computerized
reservation systems; and to administer regulations providing for
consumer protection, including regulations governing the
accessibility of air transportation facilities for handicapped
individuals.  United's operations require certificates of public
convenience and necessity issued by the DOT (or specific
exemptions therefrom), and an air carrier operating certificate
and related operations specifications issued by the FAA.

     United's operations also require licenses issued by the
aviation authorities of the foreign countries United serves.
Foreign aviation authorities may from time to time impose a
greater degree of economic regulation than exists with respect to
United domestic operations.

     In international markets, United competes against foreign
and U.S. carriers that have been granted authority to provide
scheduled passenger and freight service between points in the
United States and various overseas destinations.  In connection
with its international services, United is required to file with
the DOT and observe tariffs establishing the fares and rates
charged and the rules governing the transportation provided.  In
certain cases, fares, rates and schedules require the approval of
the DOT and the relevant foreign governments.

     In addition, United's operating authorities in international
markets are governed by the aviation agreements between the
United States and foreign countries.  United's expansion into
many foreign markets is presently precluded by lack of an
aviation agreement allowing such service.  United continually
urges the U.S. Government to negotiate increased access to such
restricted markets.

     Shifts in United States or foreign government aviation
policies can lead to the alteration or termination of existing
air service agreements that the U.S. has with other governments,
which could diminish the value of United's international route
authority.  While such events are generally the subject of inter-
governmental negotiations, there are no assurances that United's
operating rights under the bilateral aviation agreements and DOT-
issued certificates of public convenience and necessity can be
preserved in such cases.

     The DOT and the U.S. Congress have engaged from time to time
in various regulatory and legislative initiatives, respectively,
with respect to CRS activities and issues, such as the level of
booking fees, host versus non-host functionality, mandatory
dehosting, travel agency connection of third-party hardware and
software to a CRS, terms of the contracts between CRS vendors and
travel agencies, continued airline ownership of CRS vendors, and
the ability to access multiple CRS systems from a single computer
terminal.  New regulatory or legislative initiatives in many of
these areas, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect
upon CRS vendors in general and ATS and United in particular.

     Safety.  The FAA has regulatory jurisdiction over flight
operations generally, including equipment, ground facilities,
maintenance, communications and other matters.  In order to
ensure compliance with its operational and safety standards, the
FAA requires air carriers to obtain operating, airworthiness and
other certificates.

     United's aircraft and engines are maintained in accordance
with the standards and procedures recommended and approved by the
manufacturers and the FAA.  For all of its engines, United
utilizes a "condition monitoring" maintenance program so that the
schedule for engine removals and overhauls is based on
performance trend monitoring of engine operating data.  In
addition, all engines contain time-limited components, each of
which has a maximum amount of time (measured by operating hours)
or a maximum number of operating cycles (measured by takeoffs and
landings) after which the component must be removed from the
engine assembly and overhauled or scrapped.  Similarly, United's
FAA-approved maintenance program specifies the number of hours or
operating cycles between inspections and overhauls of the
airframes and their component parts.  The nature and extent of
each inspection and overhaul is specifically prescribed by the
approved maintenance program.

     From time to time, the FAA issues airworthiness directives
("ADs") which require air carriers to undertake inspections and
to make unscheduled modifications and improvements on aircraft,
engines and related components and parts.  The ADs sometimes
cause United to incur substantial, unplanned expense and
occasionally aircraft or engines must be removed from service
prematurely in order to undergo mandated inspections or
modifications on an accelerated basis.  The issuance of any
particular AD may have a greater or lesser impact on United
compared to its competitors depending upon the equipment covered
by the directive.

     Since 1988 the airlines, in cooperation with the FAA, have
been engaged in an in-depth review of the adequacy of existing
maintenance procedures applicable to older versions of most of
the aircraft types in general use in the airline industry.  These
include certain of the Boeing and Douglas aircraft used by
United.  As a part of this program, the FAA has issued ADs
requiring interim inspections and remedial maintenance
procedures.  While certain of these aging aircraft ADs have
necessitated unscheduled removals from service and increased
maintenance costs, compliance is not expected to have a material
adverse impact on United's costs or operations.

     Both the DOT and the FAA have authority to institute
administrative and judicial proceedings to enforce federal
aviation laws and their own regulations, rules and orders.  Both
civil and criminal sanctions may be assessed for violations.

     Environmental Regulations.  The Airport Noise and Capacity
Act of 1990 ("ANCA") requires the phase-out by December 31, 1999
of Stage 2 aircraft operations, subject to certain waivers.  The
FAA has issued final regulations which would require carriers to
modify or reduce the number of Stage 2 aircraft operated by 25%
by December 31, 1994, 50% by December 31, 1996, 75% by December
31, 1998 and 100% by December 31, 1999.  Alternatively, a carrier
could satisfy compliance requirements by operating a fleet that
is at least 55% Stage 3 by December 31, 1994, 65% Stage 3 by
December 31, 1996, 75% Stage 3 by December 31, 1998 and 100%
Stage 3 by December 31, 1999.  At December 31, 1994, United
operated 374 Stage 3 aircraft representing 69% of United's total
operating fleet, and thus is in compliance with these
regulations.

     The ANCA recognizes the rights of operators of airports with
noise problems to implement local noise abatement procedures so
long as such procedures do not interfere unreasonably with inter
state or foreign commerce or the national air transportation
system.  ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise
restrictions on Stage 3 aircraft first effective after October
1990, and establishes a regulatory notice and review process for
local restrictions on Stage 2 aircraft first proposed after
October 1990.  While United has had sufficient scheduling
flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to
the present, United's operations could be adversely affected if
locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or
widespread.

     Federal Aviation Regulation Part 150, which was issued
pursuant to Title I of the Aviation Safety and Noise Abatement
Act of 1979, provides limited funding to airport operators to
formulate noise compatibility programs, and established
procedures through which such programs may be approved by the
FAA.  This rule may encourage the consideration of additional
local aircraft and airport usage restrictions.

     The Environmental Protection Agency regulates operations,
including air carrier operations, which affect the quality of air
in the United States.  United has made all necessary
modifications to its operating fleet to meet emission standards
issued by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA").

     Federal and state environmental laws require that
underground storage tanks (USTs) be upgraded to new construction
standards and equipped with leak detection by December 22, 1998.
These requirements are phased into effect based on the age,
construction and use of existing tanks.  United operates a number
of underground and above ground storage tanks throughout its
system, primarily used for the storage of fuels and deicing
fluids.  A program for the removal or upgrading of USTs and
remediation of any related contamination has been ongoing since
1987.  Compliance with these federal and state UST regulations is
not expected to have a material adverse effect on United's
financial condition.

     United has been identified by the EPA as a potentially
responsible party with respect to Superfund sites involving soil
and groundwater contamination at the Bay Area Drum Site in San
Francisco, California, the Chemsol, Inc. Site in Piscataway, New
Jersey, the Petrochem/Ekotek Site in Salt Lake City, Utah, the
Monterey Park Site at Monterey Park, California, the West Contra
Costa Sanitary Landfill Site in Richmond, California, and the
Douglasville Site in Berks County, Pennsylvania.  Because of the
limited nature of the volume of pollutants allegedly contributed
by United to the above Superfund sites, the outcome of these
matters is not expected to have a material adverse effect on
United's financial condition.

     United is aware of soil and groundwater contamination
present on its leaseholds at several U.S. airports, with the most
significant locations being San Francisco International Airport,
John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, Seattle Tacoma
International Airport and Stapleton International Airport in
Denver (which closed on February 28, 1995).  United is
investigating these sites, assessing its obligations under
applicable environmental regulations and lease agreements and,
where appropriate, remediating these sites.  Remediation of these
sites, for which United may be responsible, is not expected to
have a material adverse effect on United's financial condition.

     Other Government Matters.  Besides the DOT and the FAA,
other federal agencies with jurisdiction over certain aspects of
United's operations are the Department of Justice (Antitrust
Division and Immigration and Naturalization Service), the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, the Department of Labor (the Office of
Federal Contract Compliance Programs of the Employment Standards
Administration), the National Labor Relations Board, the National
Mediation Board, the National Transportation Safety Board, the
Treasury Department (U.S. Customs Service), the Federal
Communications Commission (due to use of radio facilities by
aircraft), and the United States Postal Service (carriage of
domestic and international mail).  In connection with its service
to cities in other countries, United is subject to varying
degrees of regulation by foreign governments.

     In time of war or during an unlimited national emergency or
civil defense emergency declared by the President or the Congress
of the United States, or in a situation short of this if approved
by the Director of the Office of Emergency Preparedness, the
Commander in Chief, Military Airlift Command, or any official
designated by the President to coordinate all civil and defense
mobilization activities, United may be required to provide
airlift services to the Military Airlift Command under the Civil
Reserve Air Fleet Program.  As of February 1, 1995, up to 34 B747
and 12 DC-10 aircraft operated, or to be operated by United could
be subject to such requirements.

     Fuel

     United's results of operations are significantly affected by
the price and availability of jet fuel.  Based on 1994 fuel
consumption, every $.01 change in the average annual
price-per-gallon of jet fuel caused a change of approximately $27
million in United's annual fuel costs.  The table below shows
United's fuel expenses, fuel consumption, average price per
gallon and fuel as a percent of total operating expenses for
annual periods from 1990 through 1994:


     United's average fuel cost per gallon in 1994 was 7.5% lower
than in 1993.  Changes in fuel prices are industry-wide
occurrences that benefit or harm United's competitors as well as
United.  Accordingly, lower fuel prices may be offset by
increased price competition and lower revenues for all air
carriers, including United.  There can be no assurance that
United will be able to increase its fares in response to any
increases in fuel prices in the future.

     In order to assure adequate supplies of fuel and to provide
a measure of control over fuel costs, United ships fuel on major
pipelines, maintains fuel storage facilities, and trades fuel to
locations where it is needed.  In 1994, almost all of United's
fuel was purchased under contracts with major U.S. and
international oil companies.  Most of these contracts are
terminable by United on short notice.  United also purchases
minor volumes of fuel on the spot market at some domestic
locations.  In addition, United purchases foreign fuel on a spot
basis from the Middle East, Caribbean and Far East and delivers
this to the West Coast.  Although United has not experienced any
problem with fuel availability in the past few years and does not
anticipate any in the near future,  it is impossible to predict
the future availability of jet fuel.  If there were major
reductions in the availability of jet fuel, United's business
would be adversely affected.

     The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 imposes a 4.3
cent per gallon tax on commercial aviation jet fuel purchased for
use in domestic operations.  This new fuel tax is scheduled to
become effective October 1, 1995 and continue until October 1,
1998.  United, through the Air Transportation Association, is
actively lobbying for repeal of this tax.
  
     Insurance

     United carries liability insurance of a type customary in
the air transportation industry, in amounts which it deems
adequate, covering passenger liability, public liability and
property damage liability.  Insurance is subject to price
fluctuations from time to time.  The amount recoverable by United
under aircraft hull insurance covering all damage to its aircraft
is not subject to any deductible amount in the event of a total
loss.  In the event of a partial loss, however, such recovery is
subject to a per-occurrence deductible of $1,000,000 for B747s,
B757s, B767s and DC10s, $750,000 for B737-300s, B737-500s, and
A320s, and $500,000 for all other aircraft.

     Employees - Labor Matters

     On December 31, 1994, the Company and its subsidiaries had
approximately 77,900 employees, of which 76,068 were employed by
United (approximately ten percent of whom are part-time
employees) and 1,160 were employed by ATS.  Approximately 62% of
United's employees were represented by various labor
organizations.

     The employee groups, number of employees, labor organization
and current contract status for each of United's major collective
bargaining groups as of December 31, 1994 are as follows:
  
                         Number of                Contract Open
  Employee Group         Employees      Union     For Amendment

  Mechanics, ramp
  servicemen & other
  ground employees         22,464        IAM      July 12, 2000
  
  Flight
  attendants               16,906        AFA      April 1, 1996
  
  
  Pilots                    7,708        ALPA     April 12, 2000 *  
  
  *  However, certain provisions regarding Shuttle by United
     become amendable at a later date.

     United's relations with these labor organizations are
governed by the Railway Labor Act.  Under this Act, collective
bargaining agreements between United and these organizations
become amendable upon the expiration of their stated term.  If
either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it
must notify the other party before the contract becomes
amendable.  After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet
for direct negotiations and, if no agreement is reached, either
party may request that a mediator be appointed.  If no agreement
is reached, the National Mediation Board may determine, at any
time, that an impasse exists and may proffer arbitration.  Either
party may decline to submit to arbitration.  If arbitration is
rejected, a 30-day "cooling off" period commences, following
which the labor organization may strike and the airline may
resort to "self-help," including the imposition of its proposed
amendments and the hiring of replacement workers.



ITEM 2.      PROPERTIES.

     Flight Equipment

     As of December 31, 1994, United's operating aircraft fleet
totaled 543 jet aircraft, of which 228 were owned and 315 were
leased.  These aircraft are listed below:

                                     
    *  United' s aircraft leases have initial terms of 4 to 26
       years, and expiration dates range from 1996 through 2018.
       Under the terms of leases for 306 of the aircraft in the
       operating fleet, United has the right to purchase the
       aircraft at the end of the lease term, in some cases at fair
       market value and in others at fair market value or a
       percentage of cost.
       
       
     As of December 31, 1994, 73 of the 228 aircraft owned by
United were encumbered under transaction agreements.

     In 1994 United took delivery of 18 new aircraft.  United
acquired two B747-400s and sixteen A320-200s.

     In addition, United retired nineteen widebody aircraft in
1994, ten DC10-10s and nine B747-SPs.

     As of December 31, 1994, United had taken delivery of all
aircraft on order, with the exception of 34 B777-200 aircraft,
which are scheduled to be delivered between 1995 and 1999, and
United has arrangements with Airbus and A320 engine manufacturer
International Aero Engines to lease an additional 29 A320-200
aircraft, which are scheduled for delivery through 1998.  The
following table sets forth United's firm aircraft orders, options
and expected delivery schedules as of December 31, 1994:

    *  In addition, United has agreed to lease an additional 29
       A320-200 aircraft.  Deliveries of these aircraft are
       expected to occur between 1995 and 1998.
  
   **  Rate of deliveries with respect to option aircraft assumes
       that all options are exercised and that all orders subject
       to reconfirmation are confirmed by United.
  
   *** Models 300, 400 and 500, at United's discretion.
  
  
     Ground Facilities

     In the vicinity of O'Hare, United owns a 106 acre complex
consisting of over one million square feet of office space for
its world headquarters, a computer facility and a training
center.  United operates reservation centers in or near eight
U.S. cities - Chicago, Denver, Detroit, Honolulu, Los Angeles,
San Francisco, Seattle and Washington, D.C.  United also operates
140 city ticket offices in the U.S., plus offices in the Pacific
and European countries served by United.

     United's Maintenance Operation Center ("MOC") at San
Francisco International Airport occupies 144 acres of land, three
million square feet of floor space and 12 aircraft hangar docks,
under leases expiring in 2013.  Most major aircraft and component
maintenance for United's fleet occurs at the MOC, including
aircraft acceptance and flight testing, and the installation,
testing and repairing of engines, electronics, and interior
fittings.  United also has a major facility at the Oakland,
California airport which is dedicated to airframe maintenance and
which includes a hangar with sufficient space to accommodate
maintenance work on four wide-bodied aircraft simultaneously.  As
of December 31, 1994, United employed more than 11,000 mechanics,
inspectors, engineers, and maintenance support personnel at the
MOC and over 1,600 at the Oakland facility.  United also has line
aircraft maintenance employees and facilities at 62 domestic and
international locations.

      In March 1994, United opened a new major aircraft
maintenance and overhaul facility in Indianapolis, operating
under a lease with the Indianapolis Airport Authority which
expires November 30, 2031.  Initially, the Indianapolis
Maintenance Center ("IMC") is being used for maintenance of
Boeing 737 aircraft.  In December 1994, United announced that it
will significantly expand its operations at IMC by maintaining
its fleets of Boeing 757 and 767 aircraft at the facility in the
future.  Construction of certain Boeing 737 airframe facilities
is still in process and construction of facilities for the other
fleet types will begin in 1995.  In connection with incentives
received, United has agreed to reach an $800 million capital
spending target and employ at least 7,500 individuals.

     On February 28, 1995, United relocated its Denver hub
operations to the new Denver International Airport.  Under a new
30-year lease and use agreement, expiring in 2023, United
eventually will occupy 44 gates and over one million square feet
of exclusive terminal building space.  The new airport is located
northeast of Stapleton International Airport and approximately 25
miles from downtown Denver.  Upon the opening of the new airport,
Stapleton will be closed to all aircraft operations.  United's
flight training center will continue to be located near Stapleton
and is under lease, including options to extend, until 2018.
This flight training center consists of four buildings with a
total of 300,000 square feet located on 22 acres of land
adjoining Stapleton.  The flight training center accommodates 26
flight simulators and over 90 computer-based training stations,
as well as cockpit procedures trainers, autoflight system
trainers and emergency evacuation trainers.

     United has entered into various leases relating to its use
of airport landing areas, gates, hangar sites, terminal buildings
and other airport facilities in most of the municipalities it
serves.  Major leases expire at O'Hare in 2018, San Francisco in
2011 and Washington Dulles in 2015.  In many cases United has
constructed, at its expense, the buildings it occupies on its
leased properties.  In general, buildings and fixtures
constructed by United on leased land are the property of the
lessor upon the expiration of such leases.  United also has
leased and improved ticketing, sales and general office space in
the downtown and outlying areas of most of the larger cities in
its system.  United believes its facilities are suitable and
adequate for its current requirements.  United will continue to
acquire equipment and facilities as necessary to support its
airline operations.

     Transfers of Assets

     In October 1994, UAL announced an agreement to sell for $119
million ten Dash 8 aircraft and spare parts owned by Air
Wisconsin, Inc. to Mesa Airlines, and United agreed to a ten year
extension of its United Express marketing agreement with Mesa
Airlines.  Two of the sales were completed in January 1995, four
more of the sales were completed in February 1995, and the rest
should take place by the end of the first quarter of 1995.



ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     The Company is involved from time to time in legal
proceedings incidental to the ordinary course of its business.
Such proceedings include claims brought by and against the
Company or its subsidiaries including claims seeking substantial
compensatory and punitive damages.  Such claims arise from
routine commercial disputes as well as incidents resulting in
bodily injury and damage to property.  The Company believes that
the potential liabilities in all of the bodily injury and
property damage actions are adequately insured and none of the
other actions are expected to have any material adverse effect on
the Company or its subsidiaries.

     Shareholder Suits

1.   Fry, et al. v. UAL Corp.  --  On February 21, 1990, a class
action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, by several UAL
shareholders, on behalf of the class of UAL shareholders who sold
puts or common stock from October 29, 1987 through December 8,
1987.  The complaint alleges that UAL committed common law fraud
and violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
promulgated thereunder and the Illinois Deceptive Trade Practices
Act by falsely announcing that it intended to distribute proceeds
of the sales of non-core businesses as a special dividend, when
in fact it was negotiating a cash tender offer for the buyback of
shares.  Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages, plus fees and other
costs.  UAL filed a motion for summary judgment which is fully
briefed.  No trial date has been set.

2.   Kaufman v. UAL Corporation and Krasner, et al. v. UAL  --
The Company, together with certain officers and directors of the
Company and the Air Line Pilots Association, International and
the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace
Workers, are parties to two stockholder actions filed in the
Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, New Castle County,
captioned Kaufman v. Wolf, C.A. No. 13312, and Krasner v. UAL
Corp., C.A. No. 13316 (the "Shareholder Actions").  On June 17,
1994, plaintiffs in these two actions jointly filed an Amended
Complaint.  The Amended Complaint alleged, among other things,
that the Proxy Statement issued by the Company in connection with
the proposed plan of Recapitalization of the Company, on which
common stockholders voted on July 12, 1994, was false and
misleading, and further alleged that the proposed plan of
Recapitalization failed to maximize shareholder value.  The
Amended Complaint sought, among other things, a preliminary and
permanent injunction against consummation of the Plan of
Recapitalization.

     On June 21, 1994, plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary
injunction to enjoin consummation of the Recapitalization.  On
July 1, 1994, the Company and the plaintiffs entered into a
memorandum of understanding relating to a settlement of the
Shareholder Actions.  On January 24, 1995, following due notice
to class member shareholders, the court, after a fairness hearing
approved the settlement, dismissed the complaint and awarded
plaintiffs' counsel $5.1 million in costs and attorneys' fees.

     Noise Proceedings

     United may be affected by legal proceedings brought by
owners of property located near certain airports.  Plaintiffs
generally seek to enjoin certain aircraft operations and/or to
obtain damages against airport operators and air carriers as a
result of alleged aircraft noise or air pollution.  Any liability
or injunctive relief imposed against airport operations or air
carriers could result in higher costs to United and other air
carriers.

     The ultimate disposition of the matters discussed in Item 3
hereof, and other claims affecting the Company, are not expected
to have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.


                                
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of the
Company during the fourth quarter of 1994.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding the executive officers of the Company is as
follows:

                              Office
                              Held
Name                     Age  Since   Position and Office

Gerald Greenwald         59   1994    Chairman and Chief
                                      Executive Officer

John A. Edwardson        45   1994    President

Stuart I. Oran           44   1994    Executive Vice
                                      President - Corporate
                                      Affairs and General Counsel

Joseph R. O'Gorman, Jr.  51   1991    Executive Vice President

James M. Guyette         50   1988    Executive Vice President

Paul G. George           43   1988    Senior Vice President -
                                      People of United  Air Lines,
                                      Inc. ("United")

Douglas A. Hacker        39   1994    Senior Vice President - Finance


     Mr. Greenwald has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
of the Company and United since July 12, 1994.  He previously
served as Chairman of Tatra Truck Company, Czech Republic 
(a truck manufacturer) from March 1993 until July 1994.  
Mr. Greenwald served as Vice Chairman of the Chrysler Corporation 
(an automotive manufacturer) from 1989 to 1990.  Prior thereto, 
he was employed by Chrysler for approximately 10 years
in a number of senior executive positions.  In 1990, Mr.
Greenwald was selected to serve as chief executive officer of
United Employee Acquisition Corp. in connection with the proposed
1990 employee acquisition of the Company.  Following the
termination of that proposed transaction, Mr. Greenwald served as
a managing director of Dillon Read & Co. Inc. (an investment
banking firm) in 1991 and as president of Olympia & York
Developments Limited (a real estate development company that was
in the process of a financial restructuring at the time Mr.
Greenwald agreed to serve as president and certain subsidiaries
of which filed for protection under federal bankruptcy laws in
connection with such restructuring) from April 1992 until March
1993.

     Mr. Edwardson has been President of the Company and United
and a member of the board of directors since July 12, 1994.
Prior to joining the Company, he served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Ameritech Corporation 
(a telecommunications company) from June 1991 to July 1994. 
In July 1990, Mr. Edwardson was elected to serve as Chief Financial 
Officer of United Employee Acquisition Corp. in connection with 
the proposed 1990 employee acquisition of the Company.  Previously, 
he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of 
Imcera Group, Inc. (a chemical and mineral company), where he was 
responsible for strategic planning, human resources, and legal 
and financial functions from November 1988 to July 1990.  
Mr. Edwardson also served as Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of Northwest Airlines, Inc. (an air carrier)
from 1985 to 1988.

     Mr. Oran has been Executive Vice President - Corporate
Affairs and General Counsel of the Company and United since July
12, 1994.  Prior to joining the Company, he was a corporate
partner with Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton and Garrison, a law
firm he joined in 1974.

     Mr. O'Gorman has been Executive Vice President of the
Company since February 18, 1991.  He has been Executive Vice
President - Operations of United since April 30, 1992.  He had
served as Executive Vice President - Flight Services of United
since February 25, 1991.  Previously, Mr. O'Gorman served as
Executive Vice President - Operations of USAir Group (an air carrier)
from August 1990 until February 1991.  He served as United's Senior 
Vice President - Maintenance Operations from June 1988 to August 1990.

     Mr. Guyette has been Executive Vice President of the Company
since January 28, 1988.  He has been Executive Vice President -
Marketing and Planning of United since April 30, 1992.

     Mr. George has been Senior Vice President - People of United
since April 11, 1988.

     Mr. Hacker has been Senior Vice President - Finance and
chief financial officer of the Company since July 12, 1994.  He
has been Senior Vice President - Finance of United since March 8,
1993.  Prior to joining United, Mr. Hacker served in various
senior management positions at American Airlines, Inc. (an air carrier)
since July 1987 including Vice President - Corporate and Fleet Planning,
Vice President - Corporate Services, Vice President and Treasurer
and Vice President - Corporate Finance and Development.

          There are no family relationships among the executive
officers of the Company.  The executive officers of the Company
serve at the discretion of the board of directors.


                                
                                
                             PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The Company's Common Stock, is traded principally on the New
York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol UAL, and are
also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Stock
Exchange.  The following sets forth for the periods indicated the
high and low sales prices per share of the Company's old common
stock outstanding immediately prior to the Recapitalization and
of the Common Stock on the NYSE Composite Tape.

OLD COMMON STOCK:
                          High                Low
  1993:
       1st quarter       $132 1/4            $110 3/4
       2nd quarter        149 3/4             118
       3rd quarter        150 1/2             121 5/8
       4th quarter        155 1/2             135 7/8


  1994:
       1st quarter        150                 123 3/4
       2nd quarter        130 1/2             115 1/8
       3rd quarter        130 1/2             125 1/2
        (through July 12)

COMMON STOCK:

  1994:
       3rd quarter        105                 86 3/4
        (from July 13)
       4th quarter        96 7/8              83 1/8

     The Recapitalization was consummated on July 12, 1994.  In
connection with the Recapitalization, holders of the Company's
old common stock received one-half of a share of Common Stock and
$84.81 for each share of old common stock.  As a result of the
foregoing, the price per share of old common stock is not
comparable to the price per share of the Common Stock.

     No dividends have been declared on the Company's common
stock since 1987.  The payment of any future dividends on the
Common Stock and the amount thereof will be determined by the
Board of Directors of the Company in light of earnings, the
financial condition of the Company and other relevant factors.
At March 1, 1995, based on reports by the Company's transfer
agent for the Company's Common Stock, there were 15,779 common
stockholders of record (which includes 4,949 holders of
record of the Company's old common stock, $5 par value, who have
not tendered their stock certificates as the result of the
Recapitalization).

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA





ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


EMPLOYEE INVESTMENT TRANSACTION AND RECAPITALIZATION

      On July 12, 1994, the shareholders of UAL Corporation ("UAL") approved 
a plan of recapitalization that provides an approximately 55% equity and 
voting interest in UAL to certain employees of United Air Lines, Inc. 
("United") in exchange for wage concessions and work-rule changes.  The 
employees' equity interest will be allocated to individual employee accounts 
through the year 2000 under Employee Stock Ownership Plans ("ESOPs") which 
were created as a part of the recapitalization.  Since the ESOP shares will 
be allocated over time, the current ownership interest held by employees is 
substantially less than 55%.  The entire 55% ESOP voting interest is 
currently exercisable, which generally will be voted by the ESOP trustee at 
the direction of, and on behalf of, the employees participating in the 
ESOPs.  The employee interest may increase to up to 63%, depending on the 
average market value of UAL common stock in the year after the transaction 
closed.  Based on the average market value of UAL common stock through 
February 23, 1995, the market value of UAL common stock for the remainder of 
the measuring period would have to average at least $204 for any adjustment 
to be made in the ESOP percentage interest.  Pursuant to the terms of the 
plan of recapitalization, holders of old UAL common stock received 
approximately $2.1 billion in cash and the remaining 45% (subject to a 
possible reduction to not less than 37%) of the equity in the form of new 
common stock.  The conversion of certain convertible securities and the 
exercise of certain stock options could result in additional cash 
distributions of up to $428 million.  Distributions on account of stock 
option exercises would be reduced by cash proceeds received on the exercise 
of the options.  In connection with the recapitalization, United issued $370 
million of 10.67% debentures due in 2004 and $371 million of 11.21% 
debentures due in 2014 and UAL issued Series B 12 1/4% preferred stock with 
an aggregate liquidation preference of $410 million.  Approximately $169 
million of pretax costs were incurred in connection with the 
recapitalization, including transaction costs and severance payments to 
certain former United employees.

      The employee investment transaction has put in place a lower cost 
structure which allows United to compete more effectively against low-cost 
carriers and improve UAL's long-term financial viability.  The transaction 
also facilitated the creation of a low-cost short-haul operation, Shuttle by 
United ("Shuttle"), which began operating on October 1, 1994.  This service 
achieves lower costs through special work rules and wage rates for pilots, 
high station and aircraft utilization and minimal service amenities.  Based 
on its initial operations, the Shuttle has been well accepted by the 
marketplace and its costs are within expectations.  As a result, United 
expects the Shuttle will be able to sustain a competitive presence in the 
short-haul markets against low cost competitors.

      As a result of the recapitalization, UAL's capital structure became 
more highly leveraged, as UAL's equity decreased by approximately $1.7 
billion and debt increased $741 million at the time of the transaction.  
With the increase in debt and reduction in equity resulting from the 
recapitalization, UAL's exposure to certain industry risks could be greater 
than might have been the case prior to the recapitalization.  In addition, 
the transaction resulted in new labor agreements for certain employee groups 
and a new corporate governance structure, which was designed to achieve 
balance between the various employee-owner groups and public shareholders.  
The new labor agreements and governance structure could inhibit management's 
ability to alter strategy in a volatile, competitive industry by restricting 
certain operating and financing activities, including the sale of assets and 
the issuance of equity securities and the ability to furlough employees.  
UAL's ability to react to competition may be hampered further by the fixed 
long-term nature of these various agreements.  The success of the 
recapitalization is dependent upon a number of factors, including the state 
of the competitive environment in the airline industry, competitive 
responses to United's efforts, United's ability to achieve enduring cost 
savings through productivity improvements and the renegotiation of labor 
agreements at the end of the investment period.

      The employee investment transaction and recapitalization had an 
initial adverse effect on UAL's cash position as a result of the cash 
consideration paid to holders of old UAL common stock and certain other 
recapitalization costs.  However, the transaction is expected to result in 
an improvement to cash flow through the term of the employee investment.  
This improvement is expected to result from the employee concessions which 
reduce cash expenses, partially offset by the additional interest expense on 
the debentures, dividends on the preferred stock and foregone interest on 
the cash consideration distributed to holders of old UAL common stock.

      The employee investment transaction will reduce UAL's cash operating 
expenses due to wage and benefit reductions and work-rule changes.  These 
cash expense reductions will be offset by non-cash compensation charges for 
stock periodically committed to be released to employees under the ESOPs, 
additional interest expense on the debentures and foregone interest on the 
cash distributed to shareholders.  The amount of the non-cash compensation 
expense cannot be predicted, because it is based on the future fair value of 
UAL's stock.

      The ESOPs consist of two tax-qualified plans, as defined under the 
Internal Revenue Code, and one plan that is not tax qualified.  Tax 
deductions related to the ESOPs are partially based on factors unrelated to 
the future fair value of UAL's stock.  Accordingly, it is anticipated that 
tax provisions (credits) in future periods could be impacted by permanent 
differences between tax deductions and book expenses related to the ESOPs.  
Additionally, timing differences between tax deductions and book expenses 
related to the ESOPs could impact the balance of the net deferred tax asset 
in the future.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity -

      UAL's total of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments 
was $1.532 billion at December 31, 1994, compared to $1.828 billion at 
December 31, 1993.  Cash flows during the year were considerable.  The most 
significant was the distribution of $2.1 billion to holders of old UAL 
common stock under the recapitalization, which was partially funded by net 
proceeds of $735 million on the issuance of debentures and $400 million on 
the issuance of Series B preferred stock.  Subsequent to issuance, UAL 
repurchased $87 million of the Series B preferred stock to be held in 
treasury.  Other financing activities included principal payments under debt 
and capital lease obligations of $305 million and $87 million, respectively, 
and a $46 million reduction of short-term borrowings.  Cash flows from 
operating activities amounted to $1.334 billion.  Investing activities 
resulted in cash flows of $198 million.

      In 1994, United took delivery of 16 A320 aircraft and two B747 
aircraft.  With the exception of one B747, these aircraft were acquired 
under operating leases.  Property additions, including the B747 and spare 
parts, amounted to $636 million.  Property dispositions, including the sale 
and leaseback of the B747 aircraft purchased in 1994, five B737 aircraft and 
one B757 aircraft, resulted in proceeds of $432 million.

      As of December 31, 1994, UAL had a working capital deficit of $1.714 
billion as compared to $1.183 billion at December 31, 1993.  Historically, 
UAL has operated with a working capital deficit and, as in the past, UAL 
expects to meet all of its obligations as they become due.

      During 1993, UAL's balance of cash and cash equivalents decreased $85 
million while short-term investments increased $430 million.  Operating 
activities resulted in cash flows of $858 million, which more than offset 
cash used for net property additions and financing activities.  Investing 
activities, including the short-term investment increase and net property 
additions, used $740 million.  Property additions amounted to $1.496 
billion, including the purchase of 34 aircraft, and property dispositions 
resulted in proceeds of $1.165 billion, including the sale and leaseback of 
18 aircraft.  In all, 10 B737 aircraft, 16 B757 aircraft, four B747 
aircraft, eight B767 aircraft and five A320 aircraft were acquired, 
including purchases and leases.  Financing activities used $203 million.  
Reductions in short-term borrowings, capital lease obligations and long-term 
debt, including the early extinguishment of $500 million of senior 
subordinated notes, more than offset cash proceeds from the issuance of 
Series A preferred stock and long-term debt. 

      Operating activities in 1992 generated cash flows of $575 million, 
which more than offset cash used for net additions to property, resulting in 
a $306 million increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term 
investments.  During 1992, $2.519 billion was spent on property 
additions, principally aircraft.  United acquired 25 B737 aircraft, 25 B757 
aircraft, 10 B767 aircraft and six B747 aircraft in 1992.  Of these, 18 
aircraft were purchased, 38 were purchased and then sold and leased back and 
10 were acquired in capital lease transactions.  Property dispositions 
provided cash proceeds of $2.367 billion.  In 1992, United also acquired 
certain Latin American route authorities and other related assets from Pan 
American World Airways, Inc.

Capital Commitments -

      At December 31, 1994, commitments for the purchase of property and 
equipment, principally aircraft, approximated $3.9 billion, after deducting 
advance payments.  An estimated $1.2 billion will be spent in 1995, $0.7 
billion in 1996, $1.3 billion in 1997, $0.5 billion in 1998 and $0.2 billion 
in 1999 and thereafter.  The major commitments are for the purchase of 
thirty-four B777 aircraft which are expected to be delivered between 1995 
and 1999.

      In addition to the B777 order, United has arrangements with Airbus 
Industrie and International Aero Engines to lease 29 A320 aircraft, which 
are scheduled for delivery through 1998.  At December 31, 1994, United also 
had options for an additional 162 B737 aircraft, 39 B757 aircraft, 34 B777 
aircraft, 49 B747 aircraft, 8 B767 aircraft and 50 A320 aircraft.  Under the 
terms of certain of these options which are exercisable during the period 
1995 through 1997, United would forfeit significant deposits on such options 
it does not exercise.  United continually reviews its fleet to determine 
whether aircraft acquisitions will be used to expand the fleet or to replace 
older aircraft, depending on market and regulatory conditions at the time of 
delivery.

Capital Resources -

      Funds necessary to finance aircraft acquisitions are expected to be 
obtained from internally generated funds, irrevocable external financing 
arrangements or other external sources.

      At December 31, 1994, UAL and United had an effective shelf 
registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
to offer up to $1.035 billion of securities, including secured and unsecured 
debt, equipment trust and pass through certificates, equity or a combination 
thereof.  UAL's ability to issue equity securities is limited by its 
certificate of incorporation, which was restated in connection with the 
recapitalization.  

      United's senior unsecured debt is rated BB by Standard and Poor's ("S 
& P") and Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. ("Moody's").  UAL's Series 
A and Series B preferred stocks are rated B+ by S & P and ba3 by Moody's.

      On February 3, 1995, UAL filed a registration statement with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission offering to exchange up to $600 million 
aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated debentures, due 2025, 
for up to all shares of the outstanding Series A cumulative 6.25% 
convertible preferred stock.  Each $1,000 principal amount of debentures 
issued would be convertible into a combination of cash in the amount of 
$541.90 and approximately 3.192 shares of UAL common stock (equivalent to a 
conversion price of $143.50 per share of common stock).  To the extent that 
shares of Series A preferred stock are exchanged for the debentures, UAL's 
shareholders' equity will be reduced on a net basis by the aggregate fair 
value of the debentures issued.  A reduction in shareholders' equity will 
reduce surplus as defined under Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL").  
DGCL requires that dividends on outstanding capital stock may only be made 
from surplus or the net profits of the Company for the fiscal year in which 
the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

      The results of operations in the airline business historically 
fluctuate significantly in response to general economic conditions.  This is 
because small fluctuations in yield (passenger revenue per revenue passenger 
mile) and cost per available seat mile can have a significant effect on 
operating results.  UAL anticipates industrywide fare levels, increasing 
low-cost competition, general economic conditions, fuel costs, international 
governmental policies and other factors will continue to affect its 
operating results.  

Summary of Results and Impact of Recapitalization -

      UAL's results of operations improved in 1994 as compared to 1993.  In 
1994, UAL recorded net earnings of $51 million, representing a loss per 
share of $0.61 after preferred stock dividends, compared to a 1993 net loss 
of $50 million, or $3.40 per share after preferred stock dividends.  
Included in 1994 were $169 million of pretax expenses incurred in connection 
with the recapitalization, of which $48 million were recorded in operating 
expenses.  The 1994 results also include an after tax charge of $26 million 
($1.37 per share) for the cumulative effect of adopting Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for 
Postemployment Benefits," which UAL adopted effective January 1, 1994.  The 
1993 results include an extraordinary loss of $19 million, $0.76 per share, 
on the early extinguishment of debt. 

      In connection with the recapitalization, each share of old common 
stock was converted to one half share of new common stock (and cash in lieu 
of fractional shares) and $84.81 in cash.  As a result, the number of 
outstanding shares was reduced proportionately.  Accordingly, the weighted 
average shares in the earnings per share calculations are based on the 
number of old common shares outstanding prior to the recapitalization and 
the reduced number of new common shares outstanding subsequent to the 
transaction.  Thus, a direct comparison of the earnings per share in 1994 
versus 1993 is not meaningful.  The earnings per share calculations 
subsequent to the transaction also include those ESOP shares which have been 
committed to be released to employees, if doing so is dilutive.  

      Management believes that a more complete understanding of UAL's 
results can be gained by viewing them on a pro forma, "fully distributed" 
basis.  This approach considers all ESOP shares which will ultimately be 
distributed to employees throughout the ESOP (rather than just the shares 
committed to be released) to be immediately outstanding and thus fully 
distributed.  Consistent with this method, the ESOP compensation expense and 
the one-time costs associated with the completion of the transaction, are 
excluded from fully distributed expenses.  On a fully distributed basis, 
UAL's net earnings for the 1994 third and fourth quarters would have been 
$233 million ($6.86 per share) and $67 million ($1.47 per share), 
respectively.  UAL's net earnings for the 1994 third and fourth quarters, as 
reported under generally accepted accounting principles, were $82 million 
($4.21 per share fully diluted) and $11 million (loss of $0.98 per share), 
respectively.

Other Factors Affecting Comparability -

      In 1994, United began recording certain air transportation price 
adjustments, which were previously recorded as commissions, as adjustments 
to revenue.  Operating revenue and expense amounts and related operating 
statistics for 1993 and prior periods have been adjusted to conform with the 
current presentation.

      Prior to the September 1993 merger of the Covia Partnership ("Covia") 
and Galileo Ltd., United's investments in these companies were carried on 
the equity basis.  United now owns 77% of Apollo Travel Services Partnership 
("ATS"), one of the companies formed in the merger, and its accounts are 
consolidated with those of United.  As a result, United's consolidated 
operating revenues and expenses have increased.  In 1993, UAL also 
transferred the operations of Air Wisconsin, Inc. to other parties, the 
effect of which was to reduce UAL's gross operating revenues and expenses.  
In addition, the sales of flight kitchen assets in late 1993 and early 1994 
had the effect of reducing United's salaries and related costs and 
increasing, to a lesser degree, food and beverage expense.  These changes 
have affected the 1994 comparisons to 1993 as indicated in the discussion 
which follows.

1994 Compared with 1993 - 

      Operating Revenues.   Operating revenues increased $625 million (5%).  
United's revenue per available seat mile increased 4% to 9.12 cents.  
Passenger revenues increased $337 million (3%) due primarily to a 7% 
increase in United's revenue passenger miles, partially offset by a 3% 
decrease in yield to 11.31 cents.  Domestic revenue passenger miles 
increased by 4.1 billion (7%) while international increased by 2.9 billion 
(8%).  Available seat miles increased 1% systemwide, as increases of 6% in 
the Pacific and 2% in the Atlantic were partially offset by decreases of 1% 
on domestic routes and 3% in Latin America.  As a result, United's system 
passenger load factor increased 4.0 points to 71.2%.  In addition, Air 
Wisconsin, Inc., which accounted for $159 million of passenger revenues in 
1993, accounted for no passenger revenue in 1994 as previously discussed.

      Cargo revenues increased $26 million (4%), due to increased freight 
revenues partially offset by decreased mail revenues.  Freight and mail 
revenue ton miles increased 3%; however, freight yield increased 5% while 
mail yield decreased 8%.  Other operating revenues increased $262 million 
(37%) primarily as a result of the consolidation of ATS, revenues resulting 
from the lease of Air Wisconsin, Inc. assets to other parties and an 
increase in fuel sales.

      Operating Expenses.   Operating expenses increased $367 million (3%).  
United's cost per available seat mile also increased 3% from 8.54 cents to 
8.79 cents, which includes certain one-time costs relating to the 
recapitalization and ESOP compensation expense.  Without these costs, 
United's cost per available seat mile would have been 8.64 cents.  Food and 
beverage costs increased $162 million (51%) due to the new catering 
arrangements resulting from the flight kitchen sales as discussed above.  
Commissions increased $96 million (7%) due principally to increased 
commissionable revenues.  An increase of $50 million (3%) in rentals and 
landing fees reflects rent associated with a higher number of aircraft on 
operating leases, including new aircraft acquired in the past year.  Aircraft 
maintenance increased $25 million (6%) as a result of increased 
vendor-provided maintenance due to the timing of maintenance cycles.  Other 
operating expenses increased $169 million (20%) due to the consolidation of 
ATS, depreciation in 1994 on Air Wisconsin, Inc. assets leased to others and 
higher fuel sales.

      Aircraft fuel expense decreased $148 million (9%), due to an 8% 
decrease in United's average price per gallon of fuel to 58.8 cents and a 
slight decrease in United's consumption.  Salaries and related costs 
decreased $81 million (2%) primarily due to lower wage rates for employees 
participating in the ESOPs and a lower number of employees as a result of 
the flight kitchen sales, partially offset by higher average wage rates for 
other employee groups, higher costs associated with medical benefits and $48 
million of one-time costs related to the recapitalization.  Depreciation and 
amortization decreased $39 million (5%) due principally to the transfer of 
Air Wisconsin, Inc. assets to other parties and the subsequent 
classification of depreciation on those assets in other expenses.  Purchased 
services decreased $36 million (4%), as certain services, principally 
computer reservations and communications, have been provided by ATS since 
the time of the merger.

      Other Income and Expense.   Other expense amounted to $350 million in 
1994 compared to $310 million in 1993.  Interest expense increased $14 
million (4%) due to higher average interest rates resulting from the 
debentures issued in July 1994, partially offset by the benefit of the 
extinguishment of $500 million of subordinated debt in 1993.  Interest 
capitalized decreased $10 million (20%) as a result of lower average advance 
payments on new aircraft and lower capitalized interest rates.  Interest 
income decreased $13 million (13%) due primarily to interest received in 
1993 in connection with the final settlement of certain pension benefits.  
United's equity in results of affiliates changed from a loss of $30 million 
in 1993 to earnings of $20 million in 1994 due primarily to a charge 
recorded by Galileo International in 1993 for the cost of eliminating 
duplicate facilities and operations after the merger of Covia and Galileo 
Ltd.  Included in "Miscellaneous, net" in 1994 were charges of $121 million 
for fees and costs incurred in connection with the employee investment 
transaction and recapitalization, a $22 million charge for minority 
interests in ATS and foreign exchange gains of $15 million.  Included in 
1993 was a $59 million charge to reduce the net book value of 15 DC-10 
aircraft to estimated realizable value, a $17 million gain resulting from 
the final settlement of certain pension benefits and foreign exchange losses 
of $20 million.

      Income Tax Provision.   The income tax provision for 1994 was 
significantly impacted by the nondeductibility of certain recapitalization 
costs and the statutory change in the deductibility of other expenses.

1993 Compared with 1992 -

      Operating Revenues.   Operating revenues increased $1.472 billion 
(12%).  Passenger revenues increased $1.280 billion (12%) due to a 9% 
increase in United's revenue passenger miles and a 3% increase in yield to 
11.61 cents.  United's domestic revenue passenger miles increased 6% on an 
increase of 8% in domestic available seat miles, resulting in a decrease of 
1.0 point in domestic passenger load factor to 65.2%.  International revenue 
passenger miles increased 14%.  Passenger traffic increased in substantially 
all international markets, especially in Latin America, where United began 
service in the first quarter of 1992.  Passenger load factors increased in 
Latin America, the Atlantic and the Pacific.  On a system basis, United's 
available seat miles increased 10% and passenger load factor decreased 0.2 
points to 67.2%.

      Cargo revenues increased $54 million (9%), due to increases of $31 
million in freight revenues and $23 million in mail revenues.  The freight 
revenue increase reflects volume increases largely attributable to increased 
international operations.  Contract services and other revenues increased 
$138 million (24%) primarily as a result of revenues generated by ATS in the 
1993 period subsequent to the merger.

      Operating Expenses.   Operating expenses increased $671 million (5%).  
United's cost per available seat mile decreased 4% to 8.54 cents.  The 
decrease in unit cost was largely due to the implementation of a cost 
reduction program in early 1993.  Salaries and related costs increased $198 
million (4%) primarily due to higher average wage rates and higher costs 
associated with pensions and health insurance.  Rentals and landing fees 
increased $163 million (12%) primarily reflecting rent associated with a 
larger number of aircraft on operating leases.  Commissions increased $136 
million (11%) due to increased revenues and slightly higher cargo commission 
rates.  Aircraft maintenance increased $55 million (17%) due principally to 
higher outside maintenance costs.  Purchased services increased $47 million 
(5%) due principally to higher computer reservations fees and higher costs 
associated with international operations, such as communications, navigation 
charges and security.  Depreciation and amortization increased $38 million 
(5%) due principally to newly acquired aircraft.  Aircraft fuel expense 
increased $34 million, as a 7% increase in fuel consumption was partially 
offset by a 4% decrease in the average price per gallon of fuel to 63.6 
cents.  Other operating expenses increased $85 million (11%) due principally 
to the consolidation of ATS after the merger.  Advertising and promotion 
decreased $52 million (24%) and food and beverages decreased $25 million 
(7%) due to cost reduction efforts.

      Other Income and Expense.   Other expense amounted to $310 million in 
1993 compared to $118 million in 1992.  Interest expense increased $30 
million due primarily to increased debt and capital lease obligations 
incurred in connection with aircraft financings.  Interest capitalized 
decreased $41 million (45%) due to lower advance payments on new aircraft.  
United's equity in the results of affiliates shifted from income of $42 
million in 1992, representing United's share of Covia earnings, to losses of 
$30 million in 1993, primarily due to a charge recorded by Galileo 
International for the cost of eliminating duplicate facilities and 
operations after the merger of Covia and Galileo Ltd.  Included in 
"Miscellaneous, net" were foreign exchange losses of $20 million in 1993 
compared to gains of $2 million in 1992.  Also included in 1993 was a charge 
of $59 million to reduce the net book value of 15 DC-10 aircraft to 
estimated net realizable value and a $17 million gain resulting from the 
final settlement for overpayment of annuities purchased in 1985 to cover 
certain vested pension benefits.  Interest income increased $29 million due 
principally to interest received in connection with the same settlement.  In 
1992, "Miscellaneous, net" also included gains on disposition of property of 
$32 million, a charge of $13 million to record the cash settlement of class 
action claims resulting from litigation relating to the use of airline fare 
data and charges of $8 million related to other litigation.

OTHER INFORMATION

Deferred Tax Asset -

      UAL's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 1994 includes a net 
cumulative deferred tax asset of $631 million, compared to $714 million at 
December 31, 1993.  The net deferred tax asset is composed of approximately 
$1.9 billion of deferred tax assets and approximately $1.3 billion of 
deferred tax liabilities.  The deferred tax assets include, among other 
things, $537 million related to obligations for postretirement and other 
employee benefits, $472 million related to gains on sales and leasebacks, 
$262 million related to alternative minimum tax ("AMT") credit carryforwards 
and $58 million of federal and state net operating loss ("NOL") 
carryforwards.  The AMT credit carryforwards do not expire; the federal NOL 
carryforwards begin to expire in 2006 if not utilized prior to that time.  

      The majority of the deferred tax assets will be realized through 
reversals of existing deferred tax liabilities with similar reversal 
patterns.  To realize the benefits of the remaining deferred tax assets 
relating to temporary differences, UAL needs to generate approximately $1.2 
billion in future taxable income.

      Although United experienced book and tax losses in both 1993 and 1992, 
1994 resulted in book and taxable income.

     While the losses in 1992 and 1993 were largely attributable to events 
beyond management's control, including the unanticipated duration of the 
recession in both the U. S. and other areas of the world and the 
proliferation of numerous low-cost air carriers, UAL has taken several steps 
to reduce costs and improve profitability.  Most notably, the employee 
investment transaction and recapitalization was partially responsible for 
UAL's improved operating results in 1994 versus 1993, and is expected to 
continue to improve the financial stability and profitability of the 
company.  The recapitalization put in place a lower cost structure which is 
designed to allow United to compete effectively against low-cost carriers.  
The transaction also facilitated the creation of a low-cost short-haul 
operation, Shuttle by United, the benefits of which are expected to increase 
as it expands into additional markets.  Other actions taken by UAL to 
improve profitability include the discontinuance of service at 15 
unprofitable domestic and international stations and the planned reduction 
of capacity in 1995 on certain unprofitable routes such as those to Hawaii.  
Resources are expected to be re-allocated to areas that currently benefit 
the company the most - the Shuttle and the expanding Denver hub.

     Severe competition in the airline industry, particularly by new entry 
and low-fare carriers, and the general economic outlook could continue to 
negatively affect United's operating results.  However, the benefits 
expected to be derived from the recapitalization and the new era of employee 
ownership, should further improve UAL's financial results.

     UAL's ability to generate sufficient amounts of taxable income from 
future operations is dependent upon numerous factors, including general 
economic conditions, inflation, oil prices, the state of the industry and 
other factors beyond management's control.  There can be no assurances that 
UAL will meet its expectation of future taxable income.  However, based on 
the above factors, including the extended period over which postretirement 
benefits will be recognized, and the indefinite carryforward period for AMT 
credits, management believes it is more likely than not that future taxable 
income will be sufficient to utilize the cumulative deferred tax assets at 
December 31, 1994.

Contingencies -

     United has been named as a Potentially Responsible Party at certain 
Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") cleanup sites which have been 
designated as Superfund Sites.  At sites where the EPA has commenced 
remedial litigation, potential liability is joint and several.  United's 
alleged proportionate contributions at the sites are minimal.  Additionally, 
United has participated and is participating in remediation actions at 
certain other sites, primarily airports.  The estimated cost of these 
actions is accrued when it is determined that it is probable that United is 
liable.  Such accruals have not been material.  Environmental regulations 
and remediation processes are subject to future change, and determining the 
actual cost of remediation will require further investigation and 
remediation experience.  Therefore, the ultimate cost cannot be determined 
at this time.  However, while such cost may vary from United's current 
estimate, United believes the difference between its accrued reserve and the 
ultimate liability will not be material.

     UAL has certain other contingencies resulting from litigation and 
claims incident to the ordinary course of business.  Management believes, 
after considering a number of factors, including (but not limited to) the 
views of legal counsel, the nature of such contingencies and prior 
experience, that the ultimate disposition of these contingencies is not 
likely to materially affect UAL's financial condition, operating results or 
liquidity.

Energy Tax - 

     The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 signed into law on August 
10, 1993, imposes a 4.3 cent per gallon tax on commercial aviation jet fuel 
purchased for use in domestic operations.  This new fuel tax is scheduled to 
become effective October 1, 1995, and continue until October 1, 1998.  Based 
on United's 1994 domestic fuel consumption of 1.7 billion gallons, the new 
fuel tax, when effective, is expected to increase United's operating 
expenses by approximately $75 million annually.  United, through the Air 
Transportation Association, is actively lobbying for repeal of this tax.

Foreign Currency Transactions -

     United generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign 
currencies; however, United mitigates its exposure to foreign exchange rate 
fluctuations by converting excess local currencies generated to U.S. 
dollars.  In addition, United has exposure to transaction gains and losses 
resulting from rate fluctuation.  The foreign exchange gains and losses 
recorded by UAL result from the impact of exchange rate changes on foreign 
currency-denominated assets and liabilities, primarily Japanese 
yen-denominated balances.  To the extent such balances are predictable, 
United attempts to minimize transaction gains and losses by investing in 
yen-denominated time deposits to offset the impact of rate changes on 
certain liabilities.  In addition, United entered into a foreign currency 
swap contract in 1994 to reduce exposure to currency fluctuations in 
connection with other long-term yen-denominated obligations.  Foreign 
currency gains and losses on the swap contract are included in income 
currently, exactly offsetting the foreign currency losses and gains on the 
obligations being hedged.

Changes Expected to Impact 1995 -

     In October 1994, United announced that it will discontinue service to 
15 unprofitable destinations by early 1995 and will reallocate resources 
elsewhere, including the Shuttle.  United will incur certain route 
restructuring costs, which are expected to be immaterial.  However, this 
restructuring is expected to result in improvements to operating earnings of 
approximately $25 million annually.  Also in October 1994, UAL announced an 
agreement to sell for $119 million ten Dash 8 aircraft and spare parts owned 
by Air Wisconsin, Inc. to Mesa Airlines, and United agreed to a ten year 
extension of its United Express marketing agreement with Mesa Airlines.  The 
sales are expected to take place in the first quarter of 1995.  In addition, 
increased rent associated with new airport facilities in Denver and Osaka is 
expected to increase 1995 operating expenses by approximately $140 million.

     In February 1995, United announced that it would put in place a new 
travel agency commission payment plan that offers a maximum of $50 for 
round-trip domestic tickets and a maximum of $25 for one-way domestic 
tickets.  The new commission plan will be implemented in the first quarter 
of 1995, and will apply to all tickets issued by U. S. travel agents for 
travel within and between the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii, 
Puerto Rico and the U. S. Virgin Islands.  Litigation has been initiated 
challenging this payment plan.




ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA



                 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To the Shareholders and Board of Directors,
      UAL Corporation:

      We have audited the accompanying statement of consolidated financial 
position of UAL Corporation (a Delaware corporation) and subsidiary 
companies as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related statements of 
consolidated operations, consolidated cash flows and consolidated 
shareholders' equity for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 1994.  These financial statements and the schedule referred 
to below are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements 
based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted 
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the 
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes 
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing 
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by 
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for 
our opinion.

      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to 
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 
UAL Corporation and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, 
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the 
three years in the period ended December 31, 1994, in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles.

      As discussed in notes 7 and 16 to the consolidated financial 
statements, effective January 1, 1992, the Company changed its methods of 
accounting for income taxes and postretirement benefits other than 
pensions.

      Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the 
basic financial statements taken as a whole.  The schedule referenced in 
Item 14(a)(2) herein is presented for purposes of complying with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic 
financial statements.  This schedule has been subjected to the auditing 
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in 
our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data 
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial 
statements taken as a whole.



                                             /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 23, 1995











                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

      (a) Basis of Presentation-

      UAL Corporation ("UAL") is a holding company whose principal 
subsidiary is United Air Lines, Inc. ("United").  The consolidated financial 
statements include the accounts of UAL and all of its subsidiaries 
(collectively "the Company").  All significant intercompany transactions are 
eliminated.  Investments in affiliates are carried on the equity basis.

      (b) Accounting Changes-

      Effective January 1, 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for 
Postemployment Benefits," resulting in a cumulative after-tax charge of $26 
million (see Note 16) and SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments 
in Debt and Equity Securities" (see Note 17).

      Effective January 1, 1992, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106, 
"Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" (see 
Note 16) and SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (see Note 7).

      (c) Reclassification-

      In 1994, United began recording certain air transportation price 
adjustments, which were previously recorded as commissions, as adjustments 
to revenue.  Certain amounts in the Statements of Consolidated Operations 
for 1993 and 1992 and these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements have 
been reclassified to conform with the current presentation.

      (d) Airline Revenues-

      Passenger fares and cargo revenues are recorded as operating revenues 
when the transportation is furnished.  The value of unused passenger tickets 
is included in current liabilities.

      (e) Foreign Currency Transactions-

      Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 
converted at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date.  The 
resulting foreign exchange gains and losses are charged or credited directly 
to income.  United has entered into a foreign currency swap contract to 
reduce exposure to certain currency fluctuations.  Foreign currency gains 
and losses on the contract are included in income currently, exactly 
offsetting the foreign currency losses and gains on the obligations.  
Foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency call options which 
were previously used to hedge foreign currency obligations were also charged 
or credited directly to income.

      (f) Cash and Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments-

      Cash in excess of operating requirements is invested in short-term, 
highly liquid, income-producing investments.  Investments with an original 
maturity of three months or less on their acquisition date are classified as 
cash and cash equivalents.  Other investments are classified as short-term 
investments.

      (g) Aircraft Fuel, Spare Parts and Supplies-

      Aircraft fuel and maintenance and operating supplies are stated at 
average cost.  Flight equipment spare parts are stated at average cost less 
an obsolescence allowance.

      (h) Operating Property and Equipment-  

      Owned operating property and equipment is stated at cost.  Property 
under capital leases, and the related obligation for future minimum lease 
payments, are initially recorded at an amount equal to the then present 
value of those lease payments.

      Depreciation and amortization of owned depreciable assets is based on 
the straight-line method over their estimated service lives.  Leasehold 
improvements are amortized over the remaining period of the lease or the 
estimated service life of the related asset, whichever is less.  Aircraft 
are depreciated to estimated salvage values, generally over lives of 10 to 
25 years; buildings are depreciated over lives of 25 to 45 years; and other 
property and equipment are depreciated over lives of three to 15 years.

      Properties under capital leases are amortized on the straight-line 
method over the life of the lease, or in the case of certain aircraft, over 
their estimated service lives.  Lease terms are 10 to 19 years for aircraft 
and flight simulators and 25 years to 40 years for buildings.  Amortization 
of capital leases is included in depreciation and amortization expense.

      Maintenance and repairs, including the cost of minor replacements, are 
charged to maintenance expense accounts.  Costs of additions to and renewals 
of units of property are charged to property and equipment accounts.

      (i) Intangibles-

      Intangibles consist primarily of route acquisition costs, slots and 
intangible pension assets (see Note 15).  Route acquisition costs and slots 
are amortized over 40 years and 5 years, respectively.

      (j) Mileage Plus Awards-

      United accrues the estimated incremental cost of providing free travel 
awards earned under its Mileage Plus frequent flyer program when such award 
levels are reached.

      (k) Deferred Gains-  

      Gains on aircraft sale and leaseback transactions are deferred and 
amortized over the lives of the leases as a reduction of rental expense.

      (l) Interest Rate Swap Agreements-

      United enters into interest rate swap agreements to hedge interest 
rate exposure on certain obligations.  The differential to be paid or 
received under the swap agreements is charged or credited to interest 
expense or rental expense depending on the obligation.

(2) Employee Investment Transaction and Recapitalization

      On July 12, 1994, the shareholders of UAL approved a plan of 
recapitalization to provide an approximately 55% equity interest in UAL to 
certain employees of United in exchange for wage concessions and work-rule 
changes.  The employees' equity interest will be allocated to individual 
employees through the year 2000 under Employee Stock Ownership Plans 
("ESOPs") which were created as a part of the recapitalization.  The 
employee interest may increase to up to 63%, depending on the average market 
value of UAL common stock in the year after the transaction closed.  Based 
on the average market value of UAL common stock through February 23, 1995, 
the market value of UAL common stock for the remainder of the measuring 
period would have to average at least $204 for any adjustment to be made in 
the ESOP percentage interest.  Pursuant to the terms of the plan of 
recapitalization, holders of old UAL common stock received approximately 
$2.1 billion in cash and the remaining 45% (subject to decrease down to 37%) 
of the equity in the form of new common stock, which was issued at the rate 
of one half share of new common stock for each share of old common stock.  
The cash distribution was recorded as a $1.6 billion reduction in retained 
earnings, a $0.4 billion reduction in additional capital invested and a $0.1 
billion reduction in common stock.  In connection with the recapitalization, 
United issued $370 million of 10.67% debentures due in 2004 and $371 million 
of 11.21% debentures due in 2014 and UAL issued Series B 12 1/4% preferred 
stock with an aggregate liquidation preference of $410 million.  Pretax 
costs of $169 million were incurred in connection with the recapitalization, 
including transaction costs and severance payments to certain former United 
employees.  Of these costs, $48 million were recorded as operating expenses 
while the remaining $121 million were recorded in "Miscellaneous, net."

(3) Employee Stock Ownership Plans

      The ESOPs established as part of the recapitalization cover the 
pilots, U.S. management and salaried employees, and U.S. union ground 
employees.  The ESOPs include a "Leveraged ESOP", a "Non-Leveraged ESOP" and 
a "Supplemental ESOP".  Both the Leveraged ESOP and the Non-Leveraged ESOP 
are tax qualified plans while the Supplemental ESOP is not a tax qualified 
plan.  The purpose of having the three ESOPs is to deliver the agreed-upon 
shares to employees in a manner which utilizes the tax incentives available 
to tax qualified ESOPs to the greatest degree possible.  Accordingly, shares 
are delivered to employees primarily through the Leveraged ESOP, secondly, 
through the Non-Leveraged ESOP, and lastly, through the Supplemental ESOP.  

      The equity interests are being delivered to employees through two 
classes of preferred stock (Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock, 
collectively "ESOP Preferred Stock") and the voting interests are being 
delivered through three separate classes of preferred stocks (Class P, M and 
S Voting Preferred Stock, collectively "Voting Preferred Stock").  The Class 
1 ESOP Preferred Stock will be issued to an ESOP trust in seven separate 
sales through January 1, 2000 under the Leveraged ESOP, one of which took 
place at the time of the recapitalization.  Based on Internal Revenue Code 
limitations, shares of the Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock will either be 
contributed to the Non-Leveraged ESOP or allocated as "book-entry shares" to 
the Supplemental ESOP, annually through the year 2000.  The classes of 
preferred stock are described more fully in Note 12, Preferred Stock.

      The Leveraged ESOP and Non-Leveraged ESOP are being accounted for 
under AICPA Statement of Position 93-6, "Employers' Accounting for Employee 
Stock Ownership Plans" ("SOP").  For the Leveraged ESOP, as shares of the 
Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock are sold to an ESOP trust, the Company reports 
the issuance as a credit to additional capital invested and a corresponding 
charge to unearned ESOP preferred stock.  As the shares are earned by 
employees in exchange for services performed, the shares are committed to be 
released.  ESOP compensation expense is recorded for the average fair value 
of the shares committed to be released during the period with a 
corresponding credit to unearned ESOP preferred stock for the cost of the 
shares.  Any difference between the fair value of the shares and the cost of 
the shares is charged or credited to additional capital invested.  For the 
Non-Leveraged ESOP, the Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock is recorded as 
additional capital invested as the shares are committed to be contributed in 
exchange for employee services, with the offsetting entry to ESOP 
compensation expense.  The ESOP compensation expense is based on the average 
fair value of the shares committed to be contributed, in accordance with the 
SOP.  The Supplemental ESOP is being accounted for under Accounting 
Principle Board Opinion 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."

      For the Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock committed to be contributed to 
employees under the Supplemental ESOP, employees can elect to receive their 
"book entry" shares in cash upon termination of employment.  The fair value 
of such shares at December 31, 1994 was insignificant. 

      Shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are legally released or allocated to 
employee accounts as of year end.  Dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock are 
also paid at the end of the year.  Dividends on unallocated shares are used 
by the ESOP to pay down the loan from UAL and are not considered dividends 
for financial reporting purposes.  Dividends on allocated shares are 
satisfied by releasing shares from the ESOP's suspense account to the 
employee accounts and are charged to equity.

      During 1994, the Company recorded $182 million of ESOP compensation 
expense for the period July 13 through December 31, 1994.  At December 31, 
1994, the year-end allocation of Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock to employee 
accounts had not yet been completed.  There were 1,131,912 shares of Class 1 
ESOP Preferred Stock committed to be released and 657,673 shares held in 
suspense by the ESOP as of December 31, 1994.  For the Class 2 ESOP 
Preferred Stock, 316,472 shares were committed to be contributed to 
employees at December 31, 1994.  The fair value of the unearned ESOP shares 
recorded on the balance sheet at December 31, 1994 was $79 million.

(4) Affiliates

      United owns 38% of the Galileo International Partnership ("Galileo") 
through a wholly-owned subsidiary.  United's investment in Galileo, which 
owns the Apollo and Galileo computer reservations systems, is carried on the 
equity basis.  United also owns 77% of the Apollo Travel Services 
Partnership ("ATS"), which markets the Apollo computer reservations systems 
to travel agencies in the U. S. and Mexico, and its accounts are 
consolidated.  Prior to a September 1993 merger, United owned 50% of the 
Covia Partnership ("Covia") and 25.6% of Galileo Ltd., Galileo's and ATS's 
predecessor companies, which were accounted for on the equity basis.  The 
consolidation of ATS resulted in non-cash increases of $78 million in 
assets, $46 million in liabilities and $34 million in minority interests as 
of the date of the merger.

      Under operating agreements with Covia prior to the merger, United 
provided certain computer support services for, and purchased computer 
reservation services, communications and other information from, Covia.  
Revenues derived from the sale of services to Covia amounted to 
approximately $21 million in 1993 and $22 million in 1992.  The cost to 
United of services purchased from Covia amounted to approximately $168 
million in 1993 and $219 million in 1992.  Under operating agreements with 
Galileo subsequent to the merger, United purchases computer reservation 
services from Galileo and provides marketing, sales and communication 
services to Galileo.  Revenues derived from the sale of services to Galileo 
amounted to approximately $233 million in 1994 and $58 million in 1993.  The 
cost to United of services purchased from Galileo amounted to approximately 
$94 million in 1994 and $47 million in 1993.


During 1993, Galileo recorded $114 million of charges which included the 
cost of eliminating duplicate facilities and operations.

(5) Other Income (Expense) - Miscellaneous



(6) Per Share Amounts

      Per share amounts were based on weighted average common shares 
outstanding - 18,791,587 in 1994, 24,345,857 in 1993 and 24,069,786 in 
1992.  Common stock equivalents, including ESOP shares committed to be 
released, were not included in the computations as they did not have a 
dilutive effect.  Per share amounts were calculated after providing for 
preferred stock dividends of $59 million in 1994 and $33 million in 1993.  
Earnings available to common stockholders were also reduced by $3 million 
in 1994 for the excess of amounts paid to reacquire UAL preferred stock 
over the liquidation preference of such stock.

      In connection with the July 1994 recapitalization, each old common 
share was exchanged for one half new common share.  As required under 
generally accepted accounting principles for transactions of this type, 
the historical weighted average shares outstanding have not been restated. 
 Thus, direct comparisons between 1994 and prior years' per share amounts 
are not meaningful.

(7) Income Taxes

      In 1994, the Company was subject to the alternative minimum tax 
("AMT").  The federal income tax liability is the greater of the tax 
computed using the regular tax system or the tax under the AMT system.  
Certain preferences, mainly depreciation adjustments, have caused 
alternative minimum taxable income and the resulting AMT liability to 
exceed regular taxable income and the regular tax liability.  The excess 
of the AMT liability over the regular tax liability produces AMT credits 
which are carried forward indefinitely.


The income tax provision (credit) differed from amounts computed at the 
statutory federal income tax rate, as follows:


      The Company adopted SFAS No. 109 "Accounting for Income Taxes," 
effective January 1, 1992.  This statement provides for an asset and 
liability approach to accounting for income taxes.  The Company recognized 
a tax benefit of $40 million for the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 
No. 109.  Deferred income taxes (credit) reflect the impact of "temporary 
differences" between amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and such amounts as measured by tax laws.  These 
temporary differences are determined in accordance with SFAS No. 109 and 
are more inclusive in nature than "timing differences" as determined under 
previously applicable accounting principles.

Temporary differences and carryforwards which give rise to a significant 
portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities for 1994 and 1993 are as 
follows:



     The Company has determined, based on its history of operating 
earnings and expectations of future taxable income, that it is more likely 
than not that the deferred tax assets at December 31, 1994 will be 
realized.

     At December 31, 1994, UAL and its subsidiaries had $262 million of 
federal AMT credit carryforwards available for an indefinite period, $4 
million of general business credit carryforwards which expire between 2004 
and 2009, $40 million of state tax benefit from net operating loss 
carryforwards expiring between 1997 and 2009 and $18 million of federal 
tax benefit from net operating loss carryforwards expiring between 2006 
and 2009.

(8) Short-Term Borrowings

     At December 31, 1994 and 1993, United had outstanding $269 million 
and $315 million, respectively, in short-term borrowings, bearing average 
interest rates of 5.63% and 3.34%, respectively.  Receivables amounting to 
$426 million at December 31, 1994 and $367 million at December 31, 1993 
were pledged by United to secure repayment of such outstanding borrowings. 
 The maximum available amount of borrowings under this arrangement is $360 
million.

(9) Long-Term Debt

A summary of long-term debt, excluding current maturities, as of 
December 31 is as follows (interest rates are as of December 31, 1994):



      In connection with the July 1994 recapitalization, United issued 
$370 million of 10.67% debentures due in 2004 and $371 million of 11.21% 
debentures due in 2014.  The debentures are unsecured obligations.

      In the second quarter of 1993, United retired $500 million of senior 
subordinated notes.  The notes were scheduled to mature in 1995 ($150 
million) and 1998 ($350 million).  An extraordinary loss of $19 million, 
after tax benefits of $9 million, was recorded in the first quarter of 
1993, based on United's stated intention to retire the notes.

      The convertible debentures, which are obligations of Air Wis 
Services, Inc. ("Air Wis"), are convertible into shares of old UAL common 
stock, at the conversion price of $259.08 (equivalent to approximately 
$348.54 per share of new UAL common stock).  In addition, $4 million of 
these debentures and $3 million of similar debentures with a conversion 
price of $198.02 (equivalent to approximately $226.42 per share of new UAL 
common stock) are classified in current maturities.  In 1994, Air Wis 
reacquired $3 million of these debentures, resulting in an insignificant 
loss.

      In addition to scheduled principal payments, in 1994 the Company 
repaid secured notes in the principal amount of $218 million.  In January 
and February 1995, United repaid an additional $101 million in principal 
amount of secured notes and $150 million in principal amount of 
debentures, respectively, resulting in an insignificant loss.  At December 
31, 1994, United had outstanding a total of $316 million of long-term debt 
bearing interest at rates 85 to 128 basis points over the London interbank 
offered rate ("LIBOR").  In connection with certain of these debt 
financings, United has entered interest rate swap agreements to 
effectively fix interest rates at December 31, 1994 between 8.554% and 
8.6% on $71 million of notional amount (See Note 18).

      Maturities of long-term debt for each of the four years after 1995 
are:  1996 -- $119 million; 1997 -- $220 million; 1998 -- $188 million; 
and 1999 -- $48 million.  Various assets, principally aircraft, having an 
aggregate book value of $1.409 billion at December 31, 1994, were pledged 
under various loan agreements.

      At December 31, 1994, UAL and United had an effective shelf 
registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission 
to offer up to $1.035 billion of securities, including secured and 
unsecured debt, equipment trust and pass through certificates, equity or a 
combination thereof.  UAL's ability to issue equity securities is limited 
by its certificate of incorporation, which was restated in connection with 
the recapitalization.

(10) Lease Obligations

      The Company leases aircraft, airport passenger terminal space, 
aircraft hangars and related maintenance facilities, cargo terminals, 
other airport facilities, real estate, office and computer equipment and 
vehicles.

Future minimum lease payments as of December 31, 1994, under capital 
leases and operating leases having initial or remaining noncancelable 
lease terms of more than one year are as follows:


      As of December 31, 1994, United leased 315 aircraft, 45 of which 
were under capital leases.  These leases have terms of four to 26 years, 
and expiration dates range from 1996 through 2018.  Under the terms of 
leases for 306 of the aircraft, United has the right of first refusal to 
purchase, at the end of the lease term, certain aircraft at fair market 
value and others at either fair market value or a percentage of cost.  
United has 21 Airbus A320-200 aircraft under 24-year operating leases 
which are cancelable upon eleven months notice during the initial 10 years 
of the leases.

      Amounts charged to rent expense, net of minor amounts of sublease 
rentals, were $1.222 billion in 1994, $1.208 billion in 1993, and $1.060 
billion in 1992.  Included in rent expense were insignificant amounts of 
contingent rentals, resulting from changes in interest rates for operating 
leases under which the rent payments are based on variable interest rates. 
 In connection with certain of these leases, United has entered interest 
rate swap agreements (See Note 18).

(11) Foreign Operations

      United conducts operations in various foreign countries, principally 
in the Pacific, Europe and Latin America.  Operating revenues from foreign 
operations were approximately $4.920 billion in 1994, $4.500 billion in 
1993 and $3.890 billion in 1992.

(12) Preferred Stock

      UAL is authorized to issue up to 16,000,000 shares of serial 
preferred stock, 25,000,000 shares each of Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP 
Preferred Stock, and an aggregate 25,100,000 shares of Class P, M, and S 
Voting Preferred Stock.

      At December 31, 1994, there were outstanding 5,999,900 shares of 
Series A cumulative 6.25% convertible preferred stock.  Effective March 
31, 1994, UAL changed the stated capital of the Series A preferred stock 
from $30 million ($5.00 per preferred share) to $60,000 ($0.01 per 
preferred share), with the difference being attributed to additional 
capital invested.  Subsequent to the recapitalization, each share of 
Series A preferred stock is convertible into $54.19 in cash and 
approximately 0.3195 shares of UAL common stock (equivalent to a 
conversion price of $143.38 per common share).  In December 1994, 100 
shares of Series A preferred stock were converted, resulting in the 
issuance of 31 shares of UAL common stock.  Under its terms, any portion 
of the convertible preferred stock is redeemable after April 30, 1996, at 
UAL's option, at $100 per share plus a premium which begins at 4.375% 
declining to zero ratably over seven years.  The Series A shares have an 
aggregate liquidation preference of $600 million, or $100 per share.

      On February 3, 1995, the Company filed a registration statement with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission offering to exchange up to $600 
million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated debentures, 
due 2025, for up to all shares of the outstanding Series A cumulative 
6.25% convertible preferred stock.  Each $1,000 principal amount of 
debentures issued would be convertible into a combination of cash in the 
amount of $541.90 and approximately 3.192 shares of new UAL common stock 
(equivalent to a conversion price of $143.50 per share of new common 
stock).  To the extent that shares of Series A preferred stock are 
exchanged for the debentures, the Company's shareholders' equity will be 
reduced on a net basis by the aggregate fair value of the debentures 
issued.  A reduction in shareholders' equity will reduce surplus as 
defined under Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL").  DGCL requires 
that dividends on outstanding capital stock may only be made from surplus 
or the net profits of the Company for the fiscal year in which the 
dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.

      In connection with the July 1994 recapitalization, UAL issued 
16,416,000 depositary shares, each representing 1/1000 of one share of 
Series B 12 1/4% preferred stock, resulting in net proceeds of $400 
million, which was recorded as additional capital invested.  The shares 
issued had an aggregate liquidation preference of $410 million, or $25 per 
depositary share ($25,000 per Series B preferred share), and a stated 
capital of $164 ($0.01 per Series B preferred share).  Under its terms, 
any portion of the Series B preferred stock or the depositary shares is 
redeemable for cash after July 11, 2004, at UAL's option, at the 
equivalent of $25 per depositary share, plus accrued dividends.  The 
Series B preferred stock is not convertible into any other securities, has 
no stated maturity and is not subject to mandatory redemption.  In the 
fourth quarter of 1994, UAL repurchased 3,336,400 depositary shares, 
representing 3,336.4 shares of Series B preferred stock, at an aggregate 
cost of $87 million to be held in treasury.  At December 31, 1994, there 
were outstanding 13,079,600 depositary shares representing 13,079.6 shares 
of Series B preferred stock.

      The Series A and B preferred stocks rank senior to all other 
preferred and common stocks as to receipt of dividends and amounts 
distributed upon liquidation.  The Series A and B preferred stocks have 
voting rights only to the extent required by law and with respect to 
charter amendments that adversely affect the preferred stock or the 
creation or issuance of any security ranking senior to the preferred 
stock.  Additionally, if dividends are not paid for six cumulative 
quarters, the Series A and Series B preferred shareholders together are 
entitled to elect two additional members to the UAL Board of Directors 
until all dividends are paid in full.

      At December 31, 1994, 1,789,585 shares of Class 1 ESOP Preferred 
Stock and no shares of Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock were issued.  An 
aggregate of 17,675,345 shares of Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock 
will be issued in connection with the recapitalization and establishment 
of the ESOPs (see notes 2 and 3).  Each share of ESOP Preferred Stock is 
convertible into one share of UAL common stock, subject to adjustment 
under certain conditions.  The stock has a par value of $0.01 per share, 
is nonvoting, and has a liquidation value of $126.96 per share plus all 
accrued and unpaid dividends.  The Class 1 ESOP Preferred Stock provides a 
fixed annual dividend of $8.8872 per share, which ceases on March 31, 
2000; the Class 2 does not pay a fixed dividend.

      Class P, M, and S Voting Preferred Stocks were established to 
provide the voting power to the employee groups participating in the 
ESOPs.  As of December 31, 1994, one share each of Class P, M and S Voting 
Preferred Stock were outstanding.  Additional Voting Preferred Stock will 
be issued as shares of the Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP Preferred Stock are 
allocated to employees.  In the aggregate, 17,675,345 shares of Voting 
Preferred Stock will be issued through the year 2000.  The Voting 
Preferred Stock at any time outstanding commands voting power for 
approximately 55% (subject to increase to up to 63%) of the vote of all 
classes of capital stock in all matters requiring a shareholder vote, 
other than for the election of members of the Board of Directors.  The 
Voting Preferred Stock will generally continue to represent approximately 
55% (subject to increase to up to 63%) of the aggregate voting power until 
the "Sunset".  The "Sunset" will occur when the common shares issuable 
upon conversion of the outstanding Class 1 and Class 2 ESOP Preferred 
Stock, plus any common equity and available unissued ESOP shares held in 
the ESOPs or any other employee benefit plans sponsored by the Company for 
the benefit of its employees, represent, in the aggregate less than 20% of 
the common equity and available unissued ESOP shares of the Company.  
Under current actuarial assumptions, the Company estimates that the 
"Sunset" will occur in the year 2016 if no additional purchases are made 
by eligible employee retirement plans.  The Voting Preferred Stock has a 
par value and liquidation preference of $0.01 per share.  The stock is not 
entitled to receive any dividends and is convertible into one 
ten-thousandth of a share of UAL common stock. 

(13) Common Shareholders' Equity

      In connection with the July 1994 recapitalization, each share of old 
common stock was converted to one half share of new common stock (and cash 
in lieu of fractional shares) and $84.81 in cash.  As a result, the number 
of outstanding shares was reduced proportionately.



      At December 31, 1994 and 1993, UAL held 574,111 and 920,808 shares, 
respectively, of common stock in treasury.

      There is a preferred share purchase right associated with each share 
of outstanding UAL common stock.  As long as the rights are associated 
with the shares of UAL common stock, each new share of common stock issued 
by UAL, including shares of common stock into which the ESOP convertible 
preferred stock and the Series A preferred stock are convertible, will 
include one right.  Upon the occurrence of certain events, each right will 
entitle its holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of Series C 
junior participating preferred stock, without par value, for $185 (subject 
to antidilution provisions).  The rights will become exercisable ten 
business days after any person or group announces its beneficial ownership 
of 15% or more of UAL common stock, or announces an offer for 30% or more 
of UAL common stock.  If any person or group acquires 15% or more of UAL 
common stock (other than the ESOP trustee, ALPA, the IAM and the 
beneficial owners of UAL common stock eligible to report and reporting on 
Schedule 13G under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), each right will 
entitle its holder (except the acquiring party) to buy common stock of UAL 
having a market value of three times the exercise price of the right.  If, 
after the rights become exercisable, UAL is involved in a merger or sells 
more than 50% of its assets or earning power, each right will entitle its 
holder to buy common stock of the surviving entity having a market value 
of three times the exercise price of the right.  UAL has the right to 
redeem the rights for $0.05 per right prior to the time they become 
exercisable.  The rights expire on December 31, 1996.  The rights 
agreement provides that the transactions associated with the 
recapitalization did not and will not cause the rights to become 
exercisable as a result thereof.

(14) Stock Options and Awards

      The Company has granted options to purchase common stock to various 
officers and employees.  The option price for all stock options is at 
least 100% of the fair market value of UAL common stock at the date of 
grant.  Options generally vest and become exercisable in up to five equal, 
annual installments beginning one year after the date of grant, and 
generally expire in 10 years.

      Prior to 1992, stock appreciation rights ("SARs") were granted in 
tandem with certain stock options.  On exercise of these SARs, holders 
would receive, in cash, 100% of the appreciation in fair market value of 
the shares subject to the SAR.  The estimated payment value of SARs, net 
of market value adjustments, was charged to earnings over the vesting 
period.  In 1992, all active officers relinquished their SARs but retained 
the tandem stock options.  As a result of the 1994 recapitalization, all 
outstanding options became fully vested at the time of the transaction and 
the holders of such options became eligible to exercise the cashless 
exercise features of stock options.  Under a cashless exercise, the 
Company withholds, at the election of the optionee, from shares that would 
otherwise be issued upon exercise that number of shares having a fair 
market value equal to the exercise price and related income taxes.  For 
outstanding options eligible for cashless exercise, changes in the market 
price of the stock are charged to earnings currently.  At December 31, 
1994, 12,927 SARs were outstanding with an average exercise price of 
$75.70 per old share and option holders were eligible for cashless 
exercise in connection with 1,068,173 outstanding options with an average 
exercise price of $133.76 per old share.  The expense (credit) recorded 
for SARs and cashless exercises was $15 million in 1994, $1 million in 
1993 and $(1) million in 1992.

      Stock options which were outstanding at the time of the 
recapitalization are exercisable for shares of old common stock, each of 
which is in turn converted into one half share of new common stock and 
$84.81 in cash upon exercise.  Subsequent to the recapitalization, the 
Company granted stock options which are exercisable for shares of new 
common stock.


      The expiration dates for options outstanding as of December 31, 1994 
ranged from January 12, 1995 to December 15, 2004.  At December 31, 1994, 
outstanding options were held by 199 officers and key employees.

      The Company has also awarded shares of restricted stock to key officers 
and employees.  These restricted shares generally vest over a five-year 
period.  Unvested shares are subject to certain transfer restrictions and 
forfeiture under certain circumstances.  Unearned compensation, representing 
the fair market value of the stock on the date of award, is amortized to 
salaries and related costs over the vesting period.  During 1993, 138,500 
restricted shares were issued from treasury stock and awarded to employees.  
No restricted shares were issued during 1992.  In 1994, 1993 and 1992, 9,800, 
9,000 and 6,500 shares, respectively, were forfeited and returned to treasury 
stock.  As a result of the 1994 recapitalization, all outstanding restricted 
shares became vested at the time of the transaction and $12 million of 
compensation expense was recorded for the remaining balance of unearned 
compensation attributable to the outstanding shares.  In 1994, subsequent to 
the recapitalization, 112,767 restricted shares of new common stock were 
issued from treasury, of which 66,500 were still restricted as of December 
31, 1994.  Additionally, 29,733 shares were reserved for future award.

(15) Retirement Plans

      The Company has various retirement plans which cover substantially all 
employees.  Defined benefit plans covering certain employees (primarily union 
ground employees) provide a stated benefit for specified periods of service, 
while defined benefit plans for other employees provide benefits based on 
employees' years of service and average compensation for a specified period 
of time before retirement.  Pension costs are funded to at least the minimum 
level required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.  The 
company also provides several defined contribution plans which cover 
substantially all U. S. employees who have completed one year of service.  
For certain groups of employees (primarily pilots), the company contributes 
an annual amount on behalf of each participant, calculated as a percentage of 
the participants' earnings or a percentage of the participants' contributions.



      For the valuation of pension obligations as of December 31, 1994 and 
1993, the weighted average discount rates used were 8.75% and 7.5%, 
respectively, and the rates of increase in compensation were 3.15% and 
4.0%, respectively.  Substantially all of the accumulated benefit 
obligation is vested.

      Total pension expense for all retirement plans (including defined 
contribution plans) was $350 million in 1994, $346 million in 1993, and 
$324 million in 1992.

      Plan assets are invested primarily in governmental and corporate 
debt instruments and corporate equity securities.  The expected average 
long-term rate of return on plan assets at December 31 was 9.75% for 1994, 
9.75% for 1993 and 10.25% for 1992.  



(16) Other Employee Benefits

      The Company provides certain health care benefits, primarily in the 
U. S., to retirees and eligible dependents.  Benefits are generally funded 
from company assets on a current basis, although amounts sufficient to pay 
claims incurred, but not yet paid, are held in trust.  Certain plan 
benefits are subject to co-payments, deductibles and other limits 
described in the plans and the benefits are reduced once a retiree becomes 
eligible for Medicare.  The Company also provides certain life insurance 
benefits to retirees.  The assets to fund retiree life insurance benefits 
are being held in a deposit trust administration fund with a major 
insurance company.  The Company has reserved the right, subject to 
collective bargaining agreements, to modify or terminate the health care 
and life insurance benefits for both current and future retirees.

      Effective January 1, 1992, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106, 
"Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions".  
This standard requires that the expected cost of postretirement benefits 
be charged to expense during the years in which employees render service.  
Upon adoption, the Company recorded a one-time pretax charge of $925 
million ($580 million after tax) as the cumulative effect of accounting 
change.






      The discount rate used to estimate the accumulated postretirement 
benefit obligation as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 was 8.75% and 7.5%, 
respectively.  The assumed health care cost trend rate was 10% and 11% for 
1994 and 1993, respectively, declining annually to a rate of 4% by the year 
2001 and remaining level thereafter.  The effect of a 1% increase in the 
assumed health care cost trend rate would increase the accumulated 
postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 1994, by $150 million and 
the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net 
postretirement benefit cost for 1994 by $22 million.

      The Company adopted SFAS No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for 
Postemployment Benefits," effective January 1, 1994.  SFAS No. 112 requires 
recognition of the liability for postemployment benefits during the period 
of employment.  Such benefits include company paid continuation of group 
life insurance and medical and dental coverage for certain employees after 
employment but before retirement.  The effect of adopting SFAS No. 112 was a 
cumulative charge for recognition of the transition liability of $42 
million, before tax benefits of $16 million.  The ongoing expenses related 
to postemployment benefits will vary based on actual claims experience.

(17) Investments in Debt Securities

      The Company adopted SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments 
in Debt and Equity Securities," effective January 1, 1994.  The Company's 
investments in such securities are included in "Cash and cash equivalents" 
and "Short-term investments."  The following information pertains to the 
Company's investments in such securities at December 31, 1994 (in millions):


      The net unrealized holding loss on available-for-sale securities 
of $5 million has been recorded as a component of shareholders' equity, 
net of related tax benefits.  The proceeds from sales of 
available-for-sale securities were $255 million in 1994.  Such sales 
resulted in insignificant gross realized gains and losses, based on the 
cost of the specific securities sold.  These gains and losses were 
included in interest income for the year.

(18) Financial Instruments and Off-Balance-Sheet Risk

      Balance Sheet Financial Instruments: Fair Values

      The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets 
for cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments classified as 
"held-to-maturity", and short-term borrowings approximate fair value due 
to the immediate or short-term maturities of these financial 
instruments.  Investments in debt securities classified as 
"available-for-sale" are stated at fair value based on the quoted market 
prices for the securities (see note 17).  

      The fair value of long term debt, including debt due within one 
year, is primarily based on the quoted market prices for the same or 
similar issues or on the then current rates offered for debt with 
similar terms and maturities.  The fair value of long-term debt, 
including debt due within one year, at December 31, 1994 and 1993 was 
$2.983 billion and $3.041 billion, respectively, compared with carrying 
values of $3.271 billion and $2.846 billion.

      Off Balance Sheet Financial Instruments:  Risks and Fair Values

      United has entered interest rate swap agreements in order to 
manage the interest rate exposure associated with certain variable rate 
debt and leases.  The swap agreements have remaining terms averaging 16 
years, corresponding to the terms of the related debt or lease 
obligations.  Under the agreements, United makes payments to 
counterparties at fixed rates and in return receives payments based on 
LIBOR.  United's theoretical risk in the swaps is the cost of replacing 
the contracts at current market interest rates in the event of default 
by any of the counterparties; however, United does not anticipate such 
default since the counterparties are major financial institutions with 
investment grade ratings by all rating agencies.  In addition, the risk 
of such default is mitigated by provisions in the contracts which 
require either party to post increasing amounts of collateral as the 
value of the contract moves against them.  Counterparty credit risk is 
further minimized by periodic settlements throughout the duration of the 
contract.  At December 31, 1994, a notional amount of $479 million of 
interest rate swap agreements effectively fixed interest rates between 
8.02% and 8.65% on such obligations.  The fair values to United of 
interest rate swap agreements at December 31, 1994 and 1993 were $26 
million and $(8) million, respectively, taking into account interest 
rates in effect at the time.

      In the first quarter of 1994, United entered into a ten-year 
foreign currency swap contract to reduce exposure to currency 
fluctuations in connection with 29 billion of Japanese yen-denominated 
obligations.  The currency swap contract, which was designated as a 
hedge, effectively fixed, at then current exchange rates, future 
principal, interest and lease payments.  The currency swap contract 
exactly matches the cash flows and maturities of the obligations it 
hedges.  At December 31, 1994, the swap contract had a notional amount 
of $293 million, which will reduce periodically as payments are made.  
The fair value of the currency swap contract to United at December 31, 
1994 was approximately $23 million based on the reduction in the yen to 
dollar exchange rate since United entered into the contract.

      United's theoretical risk in the currency swap is the cost of 
replacing the contract at current market rates in the event of default 
by the counterparty; however, United does not anticipate such default 
since the counterparty is a major money center bank with an investment 
grade rating by all rating agencies.  Furthermore, the risk of such 
default is mitigated by provisions in the contract which require either 
party to post increasing amounts of collateral as either their credit 
rating deteriorates or the value of the contract moves against them.  
Counterparty credit risk is minimal since currency is exchanged 
simultaneously throughout the duration of the contract.

      The currency swap replaced short-term foreign currency call 
options and forward contracts which expired under their own terms, 
resulting in an insignificant loss that was included in income, 
offsetting the insignificant gain recorded from the related obligations 
that were being hedged.  In October 1994, United terminated the portion 
of the foreign currency swap contract hedging future interest payments 
in connection with the Japanese yen-denominated obligations.  While this 
portion of the contract was in effect, foreign currency gains and losses 
on it were deferred and included in interest as it accrued.  The gain 
resulting from the contract termination, net of losses previously 
deferred in connection with the interest payments, is being deferred and 
amortized over the remaining life of the obligations.

      Financial Guarantees

      As of December 31, 1994, United had guaranteed $77 million of 
indebtedness of affiliates.

      Special facility revenue bonds have been issued by certain 
municipalities to build or improve airport facilities leased by United.  
Under the lease agreements, United is required to make rental payments 
in amounts sufficient to pay the maturing principal and interest 
payments on the bonds.  At December 31, 1994, $860 million principal 
amount of such bonds was outstanding.  As of December 31, 1994, UAL and 
United had jointly guaranteed $35 million of such bonds and United had 
guaranteed $834 million of such bonds, including accrued interest.  
Included in this amount are bonds issued by the City of Denver in 
connection with the construction of certain United facilities at Denver 
International Airport, which will replace Stapleton International 
Airport in 1995.

      Transfers of the tax benefits of accelerated depreciation and 
investment tax credits associated with the acquisition of certain 
equipment have been made previously by United to various tax lessors 
through tax lease transactions.  Proceeds from tax benefit transfers 
were recognized as income in the year the lease transactions were 
consummated.  The subject equipment is being depreciated for book 
purposes.  United has agreed to indemnify (guaranteed in some cases by 
UAL) the tax lessors against loss of such benefits in certain 
circumstances and has agreed to indemnify others for loss of tax 
benefits in limited circumstances for certain used aircraft purchased by 
United subject to previous tax lease transactions.  Certain tax lessors 
have required that letters of credit be issued in their favor by 
financial institutions as security for United's indemnity obligations 
under the leases.  The outstanding balance of such letters of credit 
totaled $58 million at December 31, 1994.  At that date, United had 
granted mortgages on aircraft and engines having a total book value of 
$238 million as security for indemnity obligations under tax leases and 
letters of credit.

      Concentration of Credit Risk

      The Company does not believe it is subject to any significant 
concentration of credit risk.  Most of the Company's receivables result 
from sales of tickets to individuals through travel agents, company 
outlets or other airlines, often through the use of major credit cards.  
These receivables are short term, generally being settled shortly after 
the sale.

(19) Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

      The Company has certain contingencies resulting from litigation 
and claims (including environmental issues) incident to the ordinary 
course of business.  Management believes, after considering a number of 
factors, including (but not limited to) the views of legal counsel, the 
nature of contingencies to which the Company is subject and its prior 
experience, that the ultimate disposition of these contingencies is not 
expected to materially affect UAL's consolidated financial position or 
results of operations.

      At December 31, 1994, commitments for the purchase of property and 
equipment, principally aircraft, approximated $3.9 billion after 
deducting advance payments.  An estimated $1.2 billion is expected to be 
expended during 1995, $0.7 billion in 1996, $1.3 billion in 1997, $0.5 
billion in 1998 and $0.2 billion in 1999 and thereafter.  The major 
commitments are for the purchase of thirty-four B777 aircraft, which are 
expected to be delivered between 1995 and 1999.

      In addition to the B777 order, United has arrangements with Airbus 
and International Aero Engines to lease an additional 29 A320 aircraft, 
which are scheduled for delivery through 1998.  Under the agreement, 
United is making advance payments through 1998 which are refundable upon 
delivery of each aircraft.

      At December 31, 1994, United also had purchase options for 162 
B737 aircraft, 39 B757 aircraft, 34 B777 aircraft, 49 B747 aircraft, 8 
B767 aircraft and 50 A320 aircraft.  Under the terms of certain of these 
options which are exercisable during the period 1995 through 1997, 
United would forfeit significant deposits on such options it does not 
exercise.  Consistent with its revised capital spending plan, United has 
recently cancelled options on certain aircraft.

      United's Indianapolis Maintenance Center began operation in March 
1994, initially performing maintenance on B737 aircraft.  In December 
1994, the UAL Board of Directors approved the relocation of B757 and 
B767 airframe maintenance to the Indianapolis Maintenance Center.  
Construction of certain B737 airframe facilities is still in process and 
construction of facilities for the other fleet types will begin in 1995. 
 The facilities are being financed primarily with tax-exempt bonds and 
other capital sources.  In connection with incentives received, United 
has agreed to reach an $800 million capital spending target and employ 
at least 7,500 individuals.


(20) Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows - Supplemental Disclosures



(21) Other Matters

      In April 1993, UAL transferred the Air Wisconsin, Inc. operations at 
Dulles to Atlantic Coast Airlines.  In September 1993, UAL transferred 
certain Air Wisconsin, Inc. operations at O'Hare to United Feeder 
Services.  In December 1993, UAL transferred the jet operations of Air 
Wisconsin, Inc. to CJT Holdings.  These operations are being conducted by 
the counterparties in these agreements under the United Express trade 
name.  In October 1994, UAL announced an agreement to sell for $119 
million ten Dash 8 aircraft and spare parts owned by Air Wisconsin, Inc. 
to Mesa Airlines, and United agreed to a ten year extension of its United 
Express marketing agreement with Mesa Airlines.  The sales will take place 
in the first quarter of 1995. 

      In 1993, United reached agreements to sell assets related to the 
operation of 16 of its flight kitchens to Dobbs International Services, 
Inc. and Caterair International Corp. for $119 million.  These asset sales 
were completed by June 1994 and resulted in an insignificant gain.  Under 
the agreements, the purchasers are providing catering services for United 
at the airports served by the flight kitchens for seven years.

(22) Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)



      In 1994, United began recording certain air transportation price 
adjustments, which were previously recorded as commissions, as adjustments 
to revenue.  The revenue amounts for 1993 above have been reclassified to 
conform with the current presentation.

      The Company adopted SFAS No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for 
Postemployment Benefits," effective January 1, 1994.  The effect of 
adopting SFAS No. 112 was a cumulative charge for recognition of the 
transition liability of $42 million, before tax benefits of $16 million.

      In connection with the July 1994 recapitalization, the Company 
incurred pretax costs of $19 million, $22 million and $128 million in the 
first, second and third quarters, respectively, including transaction 
costs and severance payments to certain former United employees.  Of these 
costs, $48 million were recorded as operating expenses in the third 
quarter, while the remaining costs were recorded in "Miscellaneous, net."

      In the second quarter of 1993, United retired $500 million of senior 
subordinated notes.  An extraordinary loss of $19 million, net of tax 
benefits of $8 million, was recorded in the first quarter of 1993, based 
on United's stated intention to retire the notes.

      In the third quarter of 1993, United recorded a charge of $59 
million to reduce the net book value of 15 DC-10 aircraft to estimated net 
realizable value.  In addition, third quarter earnings included a $17 
million gain and interest income of $27 million resulting from the final 
settlement for overpayment of annuities purchased in 1985 to cover certain 
vested pension benefits.  The 1993 fourth quarter included $53 million of 
equity in the loss of Galileo, which primarily reflects United's share of 
a charge recorded by Galileo for the cost of eliminating duplicate 
facilities and operations.


      Earnings available to common stockholders were also reduced by $3 
million in the 1994 fourth quarter and twelve-month period for the excess 
of amounts paid to reacquire UAL preferred stock over the liquidation 
preference of such stock.  In the 1994 and 1993 third quarters, primary 
per share amounts were based on weighted average common shares and common 
equivalents outstanding, including ESOP shares committed to be released.  
Fully diluted per share amounts assume the exercise of stock options and 
vesting of restricted stock at the beginning of the periods and, for the 
1993 third quarter, the conversion of convertible preferred stock and 
elimination of related dividends.  The fully diluted per share amount for 
the 1994 third quarter does not assume conversion of convertible preferred 
stock since the effect is antidilutive.  In the computations for the 1994 
and 1993 first, second and fourth quarters and year, common stock 
equivalents were not included as they did not have a dilutive effect.

      In connection with the July 1994 recapitalization, each old common 
share was exchanged for one half new common share.  As required under 
generally accepted accounting principles for transactions of this type, 
the historical weighted average shares outstanding have not been restated. 
 Thus, direct comparisons between 1994 and 1993 per share amounts are not 
meaningful.

      The sum of quarterly earnings per share amounts is not the same as 
annual earnings per share amounts because of changing numbers of shares 
outstanding.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     No reportable event has occurred.



                         PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

    Information regarding the directors of the Company 
and the information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K shall be
incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive proxy
statement for its 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or shall be
added hereto by an amendment to this Form 10-K, in either case
within the time required by the instructions to Form 10-K.
Information regarding the executive officers of the Company is
included in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant."


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

    Information regarding this Item shall be incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or shall be added hereto by an
amendment to this Form 10-K, in either case within the time
required by the instructions to Form 10-K.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
          AND MANAGEMENT.

    Information regarding this Item shall be incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or shall be added hereto by an
amendment to this Form 10-K, in either case within the time
required by the instructions to Form 10-K.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

    Information regarding this Item shall be incorporated by
reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its
1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or shall be added hereto by an
amendment to this Form 10-K, in either case within the time
required by the instructions to Form 10-K.


                         PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
          ON FORM 8-K.

(a)  1.        The financial statements required
               by this item are listed in Item 8, "Financial
               Statements and Supplementary Data" herein.
               
     2.        The financial statement schedule required by
               this item is listed below:


For the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992:

      II--Valuation and qualifying accounts

     
               All other schedules are omitted because they are
               not applicable, not required or the required
               information is shown in the consolidated financial
               statements or notes thereto.
     
     
     3.        The exhibits required by this item are listed in
               "Index to Exhibits" herein.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

     No reports on Form 8-K have been filed during the fourth quarter
of 1994.









                           INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
 Exhibit Number               Description
 
 3.1               Restated Certificate of Incorporation as
                    filed in Delaware on July 12, 1994, as
                    corrected on February 2, 1995 (filed as
                    Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Form S-4
                    Registration Statement (Registration No. 33-
                    57579 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 3.2               By-laws, as amended on July 12, 1994 (filed
                    as Exhibit 3.2 to Registrant's Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                    reference).
 
 4.1               Rights Agreement dated as of December 11,
                    1986 between Registrant and First Chicago
                    Trust Company of New York, as Rights Agent,
                    as amended.
 
 4.2               Deposit Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994
                    between UAL Corporation and holders from time
                    to time of Depositary Receipts described
                    herein (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Registrant's
                    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
                    by reference).
 
                   Registrant's indebtedness under any single
                    instrument does not exceed 10% of
                    Registrant's total assets on a consolidated
                    basis.  Copies of such instruments will be
                    furnished to the Securities and Exchange
                    Commission upon request.
 
 10.1              Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of
                    Recapitalization, dated as of March 25, 1994
                    (the "Recapitalization Agreement"), as
                    amended, among UAL Corporation, the Air Line
                    Pilots Association, International and the
                    International Association of Machinists and
                    Aerospace Workers (filed as Exhibit A to
                    Exhibit 10.1 of UAL Corporation's (File No. 1-
                    6033) Form 8-K dated June 2, 1994 and
                    incorporated herein by reference; amendment
                    thereto filed as Exhibit 10.1 of UAL
                    Corporation's (File 1-6033) Form 8-K dated
                    June 29, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                    reference).
 
 10.2              Waiver and Agreement, dated as of December
                    23, 1994, to the Recapitalization Agreement
                    among UAL Corporation, the Air Line Pilots
                    Association, International and the
                    International Association of Machinists and
                    Aerospace Workers.
 
 10.3              Third Amendment, dated as of March 15, 1995,
                    to the Recapitalization Agreement among UAL
                    Corporation, the Air Line Pilots Association,
                    International and the International
                    Association of Machinists and Aerospace
                    Workers.
 
 10.4              UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership
                    Plan, effective as of July 12, 1994 (filed as
                    Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
                    on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
                    30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                    reference).
 
 10.5              UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan
                    Trust Agreement between UAL Corporation and
                    State Street Bank and Trust Company,
                    effective July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit
                    10.2 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
                    10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994
                    and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.6              UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP, effective
                    as of July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
                    Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
                    incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.7              UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP Trust
                    Agreement between UAL Corporation and State
                    Street Bank and Trust Company, effective July
                    12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to
                    Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
                    incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.8              Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as
                    of March 25, 1994, between UAL Corporation
                    and State Street Bank and Trust Company
                    (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registrant's
                    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated
                    herein by reference).
 
 10.9              Amendment No. 1 to Preferred Stock Purchase
                    Agreement, dated as of June 2, 1994, between
                    UAL Corporation and State Street Bank and
                    Trust Company (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
                    Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
                    incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.10             Class I Junior Preferred Stockholders'
                    Agreement dated as of June 12, 1994 (filed as
                    Exhibit 10.12 to Registrant's Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    September 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                    reference).
 
 10.11             Class SAM Preferred Stockholders' Agreement
                    dated as of July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit
                    10.13 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                    1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.12             First Refusal Agreement dated as of July 12,
                    1994, as amended by First Amendment dated as
                    of February 24, 1995.
 
 10.13             UAL Corporation 1981 Incentive Stock Plan, as
                    amended.
 
 10.14             UAL Corporation 1988 Restricted Stock Plan,
                    as amended.
 
 10.15             UAL Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan,
                    as amended.
 
 10.16             UAL Corporation Retirement Plan for Outside
                    Directors, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10.1
                    to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended March 31, 1994 and
                    incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.17             Description of Complimentary Travel and Cargo
                    Carriage Benefits for UAL Directors (filed as
                    Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Quarterly Report
                    on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
                    1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.18             UAL Corporation 1992 Stock Plan for Outside
                    Directors, as amended on December 15, 1994.
 
 10.19             UAL Corporation 1995 Directors Plan.
 
 10.20             Employment Agreement between UAL Corporation
                    and Gerald Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.5
                    to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and
                    incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.21             Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement
                    between UAL Corporation and Gerald Greenwald
                   (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrant's
                    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
                    by reference).
 
 10.22             Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between
                    UAL Corporation and Gerald Greenwald (filed
                    as Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant's Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                    reference).
 
 10.23             1988 Restricted Stock Plan Deposit Agreement
                    between UAL Corporation and Gerald Greenwald
                   (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to Registrant's
                    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
                    by reference).
 
 10.24             Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between
                    UAL Corporation and Gerald Greenwald (filed
                    as Exhibit 10.9 to Registrant's Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                    reference).
 
 10.25             Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between
                    UAL Corporation and John A. Edwardson
                   (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to Registrant's
                    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
                    by reference).
 
 10.26             Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between
                    UAL Corporation and Stuart I. Oran (filed as
                    Exhibit 10.12 to Registrant's Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                    reference).
 
 10.27             Letter Agreement No. 6-1162-JCM-500 dated
                    December 9, 1994 to Agreement dated December
                    18, 1990 between The Boeing Company, as
                    seller, and United Air Lines, Inc., and
                    United Worldwide Corporation, as buyer, for
                    the acquisition of Boeing 777-200 aircraft
                    (as previously amended and supplemented, "777-
                    200 Purchase Agreement" (filed as Exhibit
                    10.7 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
                    10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 and
                    incorporated herein by reference; supplements
                    thereto filed as (i) Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and
                    10.22 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                    1993, (ii) Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1993, and (iii) Exhibit 10.14 to
                    Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended June 30, 1994, and
                    incorporated herein by reference)).  (Exhibit
                    10.27 hereto is filed with a request for
                    confidential treatment of certain portions.)
 
 10.28             Letter Agreement 6-1171-FT-831 dated February
                    22, 1995 to 777-200 Purchase Agreement.
                    (Exhibit 10.28 hereto is filed with a request
                    for confidential treatment of certain
                    portions.)

 10.29             Letter Agreements dated January 31, 1995 to
                    Agreement dated December 18, 1990 between The
                    Boeing Company, as seller, and United Air
                    Lines, Inc., and United Worldwide
                    Corporation, as buyer, for the acquisition of
                    Boeing 747-400 aircraft (as previously
                    amended and supplemented, "747-400 Purchase
                    Agreement" (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to
                    Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                    the year ended December 31, 1990, and
                    incorporated herein by reference; supplements
                    thereto filed as (i) Exhibits 10.4 and 10.5
                    to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                    for the year ended December 31, 1991, (ii)
                    Exhibits 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.22 to
                    Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended June 30, 1993, (iii)
                    Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1993, and (iv) Exhibit 10.14 to Registrant's
                    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended June 30, 1994, and incorporated herein
                    by reference)).  (Exhibit 10.29 hereto is
                    filed with a request for confidential
                    treatment of certain portions.)
 
 10.30             Letter Agreement dated February 28, 1995 to
                    747-400 Purchase Agreement.  (Exhibit 10.30
                    hereto is filed with a request for
                    confidential treatment of certain portions.)
 
 10.31             Letter Agreement dated February 10, 1995 to
                    A320 Purchase Agreement dated August 10, 1992
                    between AVSA, S.A.R.L., as seller, and United
                    Air Lines, Inc., as buyer, for the
                    acquisition of Airbus Industrie A320-200
                    model aircraft (as previously amended and
                    supplemented, "A320-200 Purchase Agreement"
                    (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Registrant's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1992, and incorporated herein by
                    reference; supplements thereto filed as (i)
                    Exhibits 10.4 and 10.5 to Registrant's Annual
                    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1993, and (ii) Exhibits 10.15
                    and 10.16 to Registrant's Quarterly Report on
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
                    1994, and incorporated herein by reference)).
                    (Exhibit 10.31 hereto is filed with a request
                    for confidential treatment of certain
                    portions.)
 
 10.32             Agreement dated March 1, 1990 between The
                    Boeing Company and United Air Lines, Inc., as
                    amended and supplemented, for the acquisition
                    of Boeing 767-300ER aircraft (filed as
                    Exhibit (10)L to Registrant's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1989, and incorporated herein by reference;
                    supplements thereto filed as (i) Exhibits
                    10.7, 10.8, 10.9 and 10.10 to Registrant's
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1991, (ii) Exhibits 10.7, 10.8,
                    10.9, 10.10, 10.11, 10.12, 10.13 and 10.22 to
                    Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended June 30, 1993, and
                    (iii) Exhibit 10.14 to Registrant's Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 1994, and incorporated herein by
                    reference). 
 
 10.33             Agreement dated April 26, 1989 between The
                    Boeing Company and United Air Lines, Inc., as
                    amended and supplemented, for the acquisition
                    of Boeing 757-200 and 737 aircraft (filed as
                    Exhibit (10)K to Registrant's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1989, and incorporated herein by reference;
                    supplements thereto filed as (i) Exhibits
                    10.12 and 10.13 to Registrant's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1991, (ii) Exhibits 10.14, 10.15, 10.16,
                    10.17, 10.18, 10.19 and 10.22 to Registrant's
                    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended June 30, 1993, and (iii) Exhibit 10.14
                    to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended June 30, 1994, and
                    incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.34             An amended and restated agreement, dated
                    March 19, 1992, between The Boeing Company
                    and United Air Lines, Inc., for the
                    acquisition of Boeing 737 aircraft (filed as
                    Exhibit 10.15 to Registrant's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1992, and incorporated herein by reference;
                    supplements thereto filed as (i) Exhibits 10.20,
                    10.21 and 10.22 to Registrant's Quarterly
                    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 1993, and (ii) Exhibit 10.14 to
                    Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                    for the quarter ended June 30, 1994, and
                    incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.35             Letter Agreement among the State of Indiana,
                    the City of Indianapolis, the Indianapolis
                    Airport Authority and United Air Lines, Inc.
                    dated as of December 1, 1994, amending the
                    Agreement among the State of Indiana, the
                    City of Indianapolis, the Indianapolis
                    Airport Authority and United Air Lines, Inc.
                    dated November 21, 1991, concerning United's
                    aircraft maintenance facility (filed as
                    Exhibit 10.29 to Registrant's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1991, and incorporated herein by reference;
                    supplements thereto filed as Exhibits 10.9
                    and 10.10 to Registrant's Annual Report on
                    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1993, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.36             United Supplemental Retirement Plan (filed as
                    Exhibit 10.42 to Registrant's Annual Report
                    on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1992, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.37             Description of Officer Benefits.
 
 10.38             Form of Severance Agreement between UAL
                    Corporation and certain officers of United
                    Air Lines, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.27 to
                    Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 1993 and incorporated herein by
                    reference).
 
 11                Calculation of fully diluted net earnings
                    per share.
 
 12.1              Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
                    Charges.
 
 12.2              Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
                    Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend
                    Requirements.
 
 21                List of Registrant's subsidiaries.
 
 23.1              Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

 24                Power of Attorney (included as a part of the
                    signature page of the Registrant's report on
                    Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 27                Financial Data Schedule.
 
 99.1              Annual Report on Form 11-K for Employees'
                    Stock Purchase Plan of UAL Corporation.





SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.


                         UAL CORPORATION



                        By: /s/ Gerald Greenwald
                            Gerald Greenwald
                            Chairman and Chief Executive
                            Officer and a Director
                            (Principal Executive Officer)




                        By: /s/ Douglas A. Hacker
                            Douglas A. Hacker
                            Senior Vice President - Finance
                            (Principal Financial Officer
                            and Principal Accounting Officer)





March 8, 1995



     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant as Directors as of March 8,
1995.  Each person whose signature appears below constitutes and
appoints Gerald Greenwald and Douglas A. Hacker, and each of
them, the true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents of the
undersigned, with full power of substitution and resubstitution,
for and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any
and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this
report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and
other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, and hereby grant to such attorneys-in-fact
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and
perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to
be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned
might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all
that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or their
or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.



/s/ Gerald Greenwald               /s/ Harlow Osteboe
Gerald Greenwald                   Harlow Osteboe
                                   
                                   
/s/ John A. Edwardson              /s/ John F. Peterpaul
John A. Edwardson                  John F. Peterpaul
                                   
                                   
/s/ Duane D. Fitzgerald            /s/ Paul E. Tierney, Jr.
Duane D. Fitzgerald                Paul E. Tierney, Jr.
                                   
                                   
/s/ Richard D. McCormick           /s/ John K. Van de Kamp
Richard D. McCormick               John K. Van de Kamp
                                   
                                   
/s/ John F. McGillicuddy           /s/ Joseph V. Vittoria
John F. McGillicuddy               Joeseph V. Vittoria
                                   
                                   
/s/ James J. O'Connor              /s/ Paul A. Volcker
James J. O'Connor                  Paul A. Volcker


