
10-K405



                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        Washington, DC 20549
                              FORM 10-K

(Mark One)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1995 or
[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the transition period from                to

Commission File No. 1-6033
                        UAL CORPORATION
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                       36-2675207
(State or other jurisdiction of           (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)          Identification No.)

Location: 1200 East Algonquin Road, Elk Grove Township, Illinois     60007
Mailing Address: P. O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois                  60666
(Address of principal executive offices)                           (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code         (847) 952-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                             NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
        TITLE OF EACH CLASS                  ON WHICH REGISTERED

     Common Stock, $.01 par value            New York, Chicago and
                                               Pacific Stock Exchanges

     Preferred Stock Purchase Rights         New York, Chicago and
                                               Pacific Stock Exchanges

     Depositary Shares each representing
     1/1,000 of a share of Series B
     Preferred Stock, without par value      New York Stock Exchange

     6-3/8% Convertible Subordinated
     Debentures due 2025                     New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such
reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.  Yes   X         No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of March 1, 1996
was 12,625,189.  The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was $2,295,115,654 as of March 1,
1996.

                 Documents Incorporated by Reference

Part II of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain
information from the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for
the year ended December 31, 1995.  Part III of this Form 10-K
incorporates by reference certain information from the Registrant's
definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on April 24, 1996.

                               PART I
                               
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

     UAL Corporation ("UAL" or the "Company") was incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968.  The world
headquarters of the Company are located at 1200 East Algonquin Road,
Elk Grove Township, Illinois  60007.  The Company's mailing address
is P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois 60666.  The telephone number for
the Company is (847) 952-4000.

     The Company is a holding company and its principal subsidiary is
United Air Lines, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("United"), which is
wholly-owned.  United accounted for virtually all of the Company's
revenues and expenses in 1995.  United is a major commercial air
transportation company.

     UAL is the world's largest majority employee-owned company.  A
recapitalization that occurred in July 1994 (the "Recapitalization")
provided an approximately 55% equity and voting interest in UAL
common stock to United employees who are members of the Air Line
Pilots Association, International, the International Association of
Machinists and Aerospace Workers and U.S. non-union management and
salaried employees through an employee stock ownership plan ("ESOP").
In addition, separate from this U.S.-based ESOP, the Company has also
established employee stock programs covering most of United's
employees in Argentina, Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Hong
Kong, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines,
Singapore, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.  As of March
1, 1996, approximately 14,500 shares of UAL common stock have been
allocated to such plans.  Subject to the requirements of local law,
the Company intends to implement similar programs for employees
located in the remaining foreign countries.

Airline Operations

     United has been engaged in the air transportation of persons,
property and mail since 1934, and certain of its predecessors began
operations as early as 1926.  United is the world's largest airline
as measured by revenue passenger miles flown.  At the end of 1995,
United served 144 airports in the United States and 30 foreign
countries and three territories.  During 1995, United averaged 2,172
departures daily, flew a total of 112 billion revenue passenger
miles, and carried an average of 215,521 passengers per day.

     United provides its domestic and international service
principally through a system of hub airports at major cities.  Each
hub provides United flights to a network of spoke destinations as
well as flights to the other United hubs.  This arrangement permits
travelers to fly from point of origin to more destinations without
changing carriers.  United has a global network of hubs primarily
designed to fly travelers between North America and the Pacific,
Latin America and Europe.  North American hubs include Chicago,
Denver, Washington, D.C., San Francisco and Los Angeles.  United also
operates a major hub operation at Tokyo, allowing United to
participate in intra-Pacific traffic.  Latin America services are
operated from Miami, New York City and Los Angeles gateways, of which
the Miami and New York City gateways account for over 75% of the
traffic to South America.  European service was initiated in 1991 and
is provided to London, Paris, Amsterdam, Milan, Brussels, Zurich and
Frankfurt from several of United's U.S. hubs.

     In December 1995, United became a truly global carrier with the
start up of around the world service, operating New York - London -
New Delhi - Hong Kong - Los Angeles - New York, in both directions.

     During the last several years, United has strengthened the
revenue generating capability of its hub airports by:  (1) adding new
spokes (routes to new cities); (2) adding frequencies on previously
operated route segments; and (3) entering into marketing agreements
with smaller U.S. air carriers which serve less populated
destinations, and with foreign carriers which serve destinations that
United could not serve itself for economic or regulatory reasons.

     Under the United Express program, six independent regional
carriers, utilizing mainly turboprop equipment, feed United hubs and
international gateways.  Currently, the carriers in the United
Express program provide seamless service on United to 195 cities
where true on-line United service is not commercially viable.  Also,
North American traffic is served by code-sharing agreements United
has with five independent air carriers.

     Since October 1994, United has operated a new service, "Shuttle
by United", designed to compete with low cost carriers on routes
under 750 miles.  As of February 1996, Shuttle by United was
operating daily 366 flights on 14 routes between 12 West Coast
cities.  Shuttle by United is strategically important to United in
domestic, transcontinental, Latin American and Pacific markets by
providing critical feed traffic and market presence on the West
Coast.

     Alliances with other international carriers have allowed United
to participate in markets that it is unable to serve on-line for
commercial or governmental reasons.  Through joint frequent flyer
participation, code sharing of operations, and enhanced customer
service coordination, the alliance carriers' goal is to provide each
of their customers a seamless global travel network.  United's
principal global alliance partner is Germany's flag carrier,
Lufthansa.  Through Lufthansa, United has dramatically increased its
trans-Atlantic operations to Europe and beyond, including Eastern
Europe and the former Soviet Union.  With the U.S. and Germany having
initialed a new "open skies" civil aviation agreement to liberalize
air travel between the two countries, United and Lufthansa filed an
application with the U.S. Department of Transportation on February
29, 1996 seeking antitrust immunity to expand and enhance their
existing alliance.

     Other major alliance partners include Ansett, Air Canada,
British Midland and Aloha.  After the U.S. and Thailand entered into
a new bilateral agreement, United and Thai Airways International
began planning for the implementation of the code-sharing provisions
of their comprehensive marketing arrangement, which will be subject
to U.S. Department of Transportation approval.  Also, United has
entered into a similar comprehensive marketing arrangement with SAS
which will be implemented in 1996.

     Pacific.  Asian traffic is currently served from six U.S. cities
via United's Tokyo hub to Beijing, Shanghai, Seoul, Hong Kong,
Bangkok and Singapore.  In addition, United provides nonstop flights
from San Francisco to Hong Kong, Osaka, Seoul and Taipei; from
Honolulu and Guam to Osaka; and from Los Angeles to Hong Kong and
Osaka.  South Pacific traffic to Sydney is served from Los Angeles
and San Francisco, while traffic to Auckland and Melbourne is served
from Los Angeles.  In addition, United expects to expand its
international service at Los Angeles on May 1, 1996 with a second
daily nonstop flight to Tokyo.  United also has a comprehensive code-
sharing agreement with Ansett which operates in both Australia and
New Zealand.

     United holds significant traffic rights "beyond" Japan and as
capacity at Japan's two major airports, Narita and Kansai, increases,
United hopes to add service from Japan to Kuala Lumpur, Ho Chi Minh
City, Jakarta and other Asian points.  United has increased its focus
on the fast growing South China area with new service from Hong Kong
to New Delhi and increased service to San Francisco.  Based on
reports filed with the Department of Transportation, in 1995, United
was the leading U.S. carrier in the Pacific in revenue passenger
miles and available seat miles.  During 1995, United's Pacific
Division accounted for 22% of United's revenues.

     Latin America.  Service between the U.S. and Latin America is
provided by flights to twelve Latin American cities in ten countries
from a number of cities in the U.S.  Eight Latin American cities are
served nonstop from Miami (with the introduction of service to Lima,
Peru and Belo Horizonte, Brazil in 1995 and the termination of
service to Central America, other than Mexico City), three nonstop
from Los Angeles, and three from New York-Kennedy.  United also has
code-sharing agreements with one independent air carrier in this
region.

     Europe.  Service between the U.S. and Europe is provided by:
flights from six U.S. cities to London (including Chicago which was
started on September 7, 1995) with connecting service at London to
Amsterdam, New Delhi and Brussels; flights from three U.S. cities to
Paris; nonstop service from Washington Dulles to Amsterdam, Brussels,
Frankfurt, Milan and Zurich (service to Rome and Madrid was
discontinued in September 1995 and January 1996, respectively); and
nonstop service from Chicago to Frankfurt.  In addition, United
expects to commence daily nonstop service on June 6, 1996 to
Dusseldorf, Germany from Chicago.  This will serve to further
strengthen United's route system and alliance with Lufthansa, which
will code share on the Chicago - Dusseldorf flight.  European and
Middle Eastern traffic is also served by United's code-sharing
agreements with three independent air carriers, including Lufthansa,
which will increase to four with the implementation of United's
comprehensive marketing arrangement with SAS.

     Operating revenues attributed to United's foreign operations
were approximately $5.3 billion in 1995, $4.9 billion in 1994 and
$4.5 billion in 1993.


Selected Operating Statistics
                                  
     The following table sets forth certain selected operating data
for United:

                                    Year Ended December 31
                                    ----------------------
                             1995     1994     1993     1992     1991
                             ----     ----     ----     ----     ----
Revenue Aircraft Miles                                               
   (millions) (a)             817      776      756      695      635
Revenue Aircraft                                                     
   Departures             780,864  731,284  746,665  721,504  691,402
Available Seat Miles                                                 
   (millions) (b)         158,569  152,193  150,728  137,491  124,100
Revenue Passenger Miles                                              
   (millions) (c)         111,811  108,299  101,258   92,690   82,290
Revenue Passengers                                                   
   (thousands)             78,808   74,241   69,814   66,692   62,003
Average Passenger Journey                     
   (miles)                  1,419    1,459    1,450    1,390    1,327
Average Flight Length                                                
   (miles)                  1,046    1,062    1,013      964      918
Passenger Load Factor (d)    70.5%    71.2%    67.2%    67.4%    66.3%
Break-even Load Factor (e)   66.1%    68.2%    65.5%    70.6%    69.7%
Average Yield Per Revenue                                            
   Passenger Mile            
   (in cents) (f)            11.8     11.3     11.6     11.3     11.5
Cost Per Available Seat                                              
   Mile Excluding ESOP                                               
   Charges (in cents) (g)    8.55     8.64       --       --       --
Cost Per Available Seat                                              
   Mile (in cents) (h)        8.9      8.8       8.5      8.9      9.0
Average Fare Per Revenue                                             
   Passenger              $167.84  $165.61  $169.00  $157.17  $153.17
Average Daily Utilization                                           
   of each Aircraft                                                   
   (hours:minutes) (i)       8:42     8:28     8:30     8:19     8:13

(a)  "Revenue aircraft miles" means the number of miles flown in
revenue producing service.
(b)  "Available seat miles" represents the number of seats available
for passengers multiplied by the number of miles those seats are
flown.
(c)  "Revenue passenger miles" represents the number of miles flown
by revenue passengers.
(d)  "Passenger load factor" represents revenue passenger miles
divided by available seat miles.
(e)  "Break-even load factor" represents the number of revenue
passenger miles at which operating earnings would have been zero
(based on the actual average yield) divided by available seat miles.
(f)  "Average yield per revenue passenger mile" represents the
average revenue received for each mile a revenue passenger is
carried.
(g)  "Cost per available seat mile excluding ESOP charges" represents
operating expenses less ESOP compensation expense and one-time
expenses relating to the recapitalization (1994 only) divided by
available seat miles.
(h)  "Cost per available seat mile" represents operating expenses
divided by available seat miles.
(i)  "Average daily utilization of each aircraft" means the average
air hours flown in service per day per aircraft for the total fleet
of aircraft.

Industry Conditions

     Seasonal and Other Factors.  The Company's results of operations
for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of those for an
entire year, because the air travel business is subject to seasonal
fluctuations.  United's first and fourth quarter results normally are
affected by reduced travel demand in the fall and winter, and
United's operations are often affected adversely by winter weather.
In the past, these fluctuations have generally resulted in better
operating results for United and, thus, the Company, in the second
and third quarters.

     The results of operations in the air travel business have also
fluctuated significantly in the past in response to general economic
conditions.  In addition, the airline business is characterized by a
high degree of operating leverage.  As a result, the economic
environment and small fluctuations in United's yield per revenue
passenger mile and cost per available seat mile can have a
significant impact on operating results.  The Company anticipates
that seasonal factors and general economic conditions, in addition to
industrywide fare levels, labor and fuel costs, the competition from
other airlines, international government policies, and other factors,
will continue to impact United's operations.

     Competition and Fares.  The airline industry is highly
competitive.  In domestic markets, new and existing carriers are free
to initiate service on any route.  United faces competition from
other carriers on virtually every route it serves.  In United's
domestic markets, these competitors include all of the other major
U.S. airlines as well as smaller carriers, some of which have lower
cost structures than United.  United's response to these lower cost
structures has been the consummation of the Recapitalization which
allowed United to lower its labor costs and to introduce Shuttle by
United, a short-haul, high frequency operation.

     United's marketing strategy is driven by four principal
competitive factors: schedule convenience, overall customer service,
frequent flyer programs and price.  United seeks to attract travelers
through convenient scheduling, high quality service, frequent flyer
programs designed to reward customer loyalty and competitive pricing.

     From time to time, excess aircraft capacity and other factors
such as the cash needs of financially distressed carriers induce
airlines to engage in "fare wars."  Such factors can have a material
adverse impact on the Company's revenues.  The Company maintains
yield and inventory management programs designed to manage the number
of seats offered in various fare categories in order to enhance the
effectiveness of fare promotions and maximize revenue production on
each flight.

     In its international service, United competes not only with U.S.
carriers but also with national flag carriers of foreign countries,
which in certain instances enjoy forms of governmental support which
are not available to U.S. carriers.  Competition on certain
international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental
regulations (see "Government Regulation").

     United has advantages over foreign air carriers in its ability
to generate U.S.-origin-destination traffic from its integrated
domestic route systems, and because foreign carriers are prohibited
by law from carrying local passengers between two points in the
United States.  On the other hand, U.S. carriers in many cases are
constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated
international gateway cities due to limitations in air service
agreements or restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign
governments.  To compensate for these structural limitations, U.S.
and foreign carriers have entered into alliances and marketing
arrangements which allow the carriers to provide feed to each other's
flights.  (See "Airline Operations").

     Airport Access.  United's operations at its principal domestic
hub, Chicago-O'Hare International Airport ("O'Hare"), as well as at
three other airports, JFK International ("Kennedy"), New York
LaGuardia ("LaGuardia"), and Washington National ("National"), are
limited by the "high density traffic rule" administered by the
Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA").  Under this rule, take-off
and landing rights ("slots") required for the conduct of domestic
flight operations may be bought, sold or traded.  As of December 31,
1995, United held 756 domestic air carrier slots at O'Hare, 34 at
National, 63 at LaGuardia, and 11 at Kennedy.  United also holds ten
commuter slots at O'Hare.  In addition, Air Wisconsin, Inc., an
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL, held or owned the beneficial
interest in 38 air carrier slots and 118 commuter slots at O'Hare
which are either operated by United or leased to United Express
carriers serving O'Hare.  Under the high density rule, carriers are
required to relinquish slots to the FAA for reallocation if they fail
to meet certain minimum use standards.

     Slots for international services at O'Hare are allocated by the
FAA seasonally to both U.S. and foreign carriers based upon the
carriers' historic operations and requests for additional capacity.
The FAA holds a certain number of slots in reserve for this purpose.
Current FAA regulations provide that carriers holding 100 or more
domestic slots at O'Hare may receive slots from the FAA for
international services only if the total number of slots allocated to
that carrier does not exceed the total number allocated to that
carrier as of February 23, 1990. Under this rule, United is eligible
to receive 17 international slots from the FAA each season.

     Prior to October 1993, the FAA was authorized to withdraw
domestic slots from carriers at O'Hare to provide slots to satisfy
international requests.  Congress has since capped the number of
slots the FAA could withdraw for this purpose at the number of slots
that had been withdrawn from a carrier as of October 31, 1993.  As of
that date, the FAA had withdrawn from United 33 daily slots, defined
as slots which United operated three days or more per week.  United
continues to be subject, each season, to the withdrawal of as many as
33 daily slots.

     United currently has a sufficient number and distribution of
slots it holds at airports subject to the high density rule to
support its current operations, although its ability to expand could
be constrained if sufficient additional slots were not available on
satisfactory terms.  If an alternative to the current system were to
be proposed and adopted, no assurance can be given that such an
alternative would preserve United's investment in slots already
acquired or that slots adequate for future operations would be
available.

     United currently has a sufficient number of leased gates and
other airport facilities at the cities it serves to meet its current
and near term needs.  From time to time, expansion by United at
certain airports may be constrained by insufficient availability of
gates on attractive terms.  United's ability to expand its
international operations in Asia, the South Pacific, Europe and Latin
America is subject to restrictions at many of the airports in these
regions, including noise curfews, slot controls and absence of
adequate airport facilities.

     Mileage Plus Program.  United established the Mileage Plus
frequent flyer program to retain and develop passenger loyalty by
offering awards to frequent travelers for their business.  Mileage
Plus members earn mileage credit for flights on United, United
Express and certain other participating airlines, or by utilizing
services of other program participants, including hotels, car rental
companies and bank credit card issuers.  United sells mileage credits
to the other companies participating in the program.  Mileage credits
can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on United and
other participating airlines, or for other travel industry awards.

     When an award level is attained, a liability is recorded for the
incremental costs of accrued credits under the Mileage Plus program
based on the expected redemptions.  United's incremental costs
include the costs of providing service for an otherwise vacant seat
including fuel, meals, certain incremental personnel and ticketing
costs.  The incremental costs do not include any contribution to
overhead or profit.
  
     Effective February 1, 1995, United increased the mileage levels
for Mileage Plus domestic award travel on a prospective basis
requiring 25,000 miles, instead of the previous 20,000 miles, for
award tickets issued for economy class travel within the continental
United States.  In addition, United made certain other mileage award
level changes as well as a change to a bank-account type of system to
track mileage.  The program also contains certain restrictive
provisions including blackout dates and capacity controlled bookings,
which substantially limit the use of the awards on certain flights.
Awards earned after July 1989 have an expiration date three years
from date earned.

     At December 31, 1995 and 1994, it was estimated that the total
number of outstanding awards was approximately 6.0 million and 7.8
million, respectively.  United estimated that 4.6 million and 5.8
million, respectively, of such awards could be expected to be
redeemed and, accordingly, had recorded a liability amounting to $195
million and $195 million, respectively, at December 31, 1995 and
1994.  The difference between the awards expected to be redeemed and
the total awards outstanding is the estimate, based on historical
data, of awards (1) which will never be redeemed, (2) which will be
redeemed for other than free trips, or (3) which will be redeemed on
Partner carriers.

     The number of awards used on United were 1.8 million, 1.9
million and 1.6 million for the years 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively.  Such awards represented 8.2%, 9.1% and 7.5% of
United's total revenue passenger miles for each period, respectively.
With these percentages, seat availability and restrictions on the use
of free travel awards, the displacement, if any, of revenue
passengers by users of Mileage Plus awards is minimal.

     Computer Reservations Systems.  Travel agents account for a
substantial percentage of United's sales.  The use of electronic
distribution systems has been a key factor in the marketing and
distribution of airlines' products.

     United, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owns 38% of Galileo
International Partnership ("Galileo"), formerly known as Covia, and
77% of Apollo Travel Services Partnership ("ATS").  These two general
partnerships own and market computer reservation system ("CRS")
products and services.  Galileo owns the Apollo and Galileo CRSs and
markets CRS services worldwide through a system of national
distribution companies.  ATS, directly or through its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, is responsible for marketing, sales and support of
Apollo CRS products and services in the United States, Mexico and the
Caribbean.

     Competition among CRS vendors is intense, and services similar
to those offered by ATS and Galileo are marketed by several air
carriers and other concerns, both in the United States and worldwide.
In the European and Pacific CRS market, various consortia of foreign
carriers have formed CRSs to be marketed in countries in which the
owning carriers have a substantial presence.

     On February 15, 1995, United introduced a new travel agency
commission payment plan that offers a maximum of $50 for any round-
trip domestic ticket and a maximum of $25 for any one-way domestic
ticket.

     Lawsuits have been filed challenging the reductions by United
and other carriers in the commissions paid to travel agencies for
ticketing of air transportation alleging, among other things, a
conspiracy to restrain trade among the carriers in violation of
antitrust laws.  (See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.  Travel Agency
Commission Litigation.)  United believes it has the right to make the
aforementioned changes to such commissions, and will defend itself
vigorously in the pending litigation.

     On August 28, 1995, United introduced its electronic ticketing
service, E-Ticket [service mark], on all of its 2,000 daily domestic flights. 
United first introduced this electronic ticketing option in November
1994 on Shuttle by United flights.  In addition, United introduced in
November 1995 a disk-based version of United Connection [service mark], which
gives consumers the option to reserve and purchase airline tickets,
rental cars and hotel rooms via personal computer.

Government Regulation
  
     General.  All carriers engaged in air transportation in the
United States are subject to regulation by the Department of
Transportation ("DOT") and the Federal Aviation Administration
("FAA") under federal aviation laws.  The DOT has authority to
regulate certain economic and consumer protection aspects of air
transportation.  It is empowered to issue certificates of public
convenience and necessity for domestic air transportation upon a
carrier's showing of fitness; to authorize the provision of foreign
air transportation by U.S. carriers; to prohibit unjust
discrimination; to prescribe forms of accounts and require reports
from air carriers; to regulate methods of competition, including the
provision and use of computerized reservation systems; and to
administer regulations providing for consumer protection, including
regulations governing the accessibility of air transportation
facilities for handicapped individuals.  United's operations require
certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT
(or specific exemptions therefrom), and an air carrier operating
certificate and related operations specifications issued by the FAA.

     United's operations also require licenses issued by the aviation
authorities of the foreign countries United serves.  Foreign aviation
authorities may from time to time impose a greater degree of economic
regulation than exists with respect to United's domestic operations.

     In connection with its international services, United is
required to file with the DOT and observe tariffs establishing the
fares charged and the rules governing the transportation provided.
In certain cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT
and the relevant foreign governments.

     In addition, United's operating authorities in international
markets are governed by the aviation agreements between the United
States and foreign countries.  United's ability to serve some foreign
markets and its expansion in many foreign markets is presently
restricted by lack of aviation agreements allowing such service or,
in some cases, by the restrictive terms of such agreements.  In
addition, the Government of Japan has, for over a year, deferred its
approval of an Osaka-Seoul flight scheduled by United.  Japan
maintains that it will not approve new services beyond Japan by U.S.
carriers until the U.S. and Japan renegotiate the U.S.-Japan Air
Services Agreement.  United has urged the U.S. Government to compel
Japan to honor the bilateral rights of U.S. carriers.  United
continually urges the U.S. Government to negotiate increased access
to such restricted markets.

     Shifts in United States or foreign government aviation policies
can lead to the alteration or termination of existing air service
agreements that the U.S. has with other governments, which could
diminish the value of United's international route authority.  While
such events are generally the subject of inter-governmental
negotiations, there are no assurances that United's operating rights
under the bilateral aviation agreements and DOT-issued certificates
of public convenience and necessity can be preserved in such cases.

     Safety.  The FAA has regulatory jurisdiction over flight
operations generally, including equipment, ground facilities,
maintenance, communications and other matters.  In order to ensure
compliance with its operational and safety standards, the FAA
requires air carriers to obtain operating, airworthiness and other
certificates.

     United's aircraft and engines are maintained in accordance with
the standards and procedures recommended and approved by the
manufacturers and the FAA.  For all of its engines, United utilizes a
"condition monitoring" maintenance program so that the schedule for
engine removals and overhauls is based on performance trend
monitoring of engine operating data.  In addition, all engines
contain time-limited components, each of which has a maximum amount
of time (measured by operating hours) or a maximum number of
operating cycles (measured by takeoffs and landings) after which the
component must be removed from the engine assembly and overhauled or
scrapped.  Similarly, United's FAA-approved maintenance program
specifies the number of days, hours or operating cycles between
inspections and overhauls of the airframes and their component parts.
The nature and extent of each inspection and overhaul is specifically
prescribed by the approved maintenance program.

     From time to time, the FAA issues airworthiness directives
("ADs") which require air carriers to undertake inspections and to
make unscheduled modifications and improvements on aircraft, engines
and related components and parts.  The ADs sometimes cause United to
incur substantial, unplanned expense and occasionally aircraft or
engines must be removed from service prematurely in order to undergo
mandated inspections or modifications on an accelerated basis.  The
issuance of any particular AD may have a greater or lesser impact on
United compared to its competitors depending upon the equipment
covered by the directive.

     Since 1988 the airlines, in cooperation with the FAA, have been
engaged in an in-depth review of the adequacy of existing maintenance
procedures applicable to older versions of most of the aircraft types
in general use in the airline industry.  These include certain of the
Boeing and Douglas aircraft used by United.  As a part of this
program, the FAA has issued ADs requiring interim inspections and
remedial maintenance procedures.  While certain of these aging
aircraft ADs have necessitated unscheduled removals from service and
increased maintenance costs, compliance is not expected to have a
material adverse impact on United's costs or operations.

     Both the DOT and the FAA have authority to institute
administrative and judicial proceedings to enforce federal aviation
laws and their own regulations, rules and orders.  Both civil and
criminal sanctions may be assessed for violations.

     Environmental Regulations.  The Airport Noise and Capacity Act
of 1990 ("ANCA") requires the phase-out by December 31, 1999 of Stage
2 aircraft operations, subject to certain waivers.  The FAA has
issued final regulations which require carriers to modify or reduce
the number of Stage 2 aircraft operated by 25% by December 31, 1994,
50% by December 31, 1996, 75% by December 31, 1998 and 100% by
December 31, 1999.  Alternatively, a carrier could satisfy compliance
requirements by operating a fleet that is at least 55% Stage 3 by
December 31, 1994, 65% Stage 3 by December 31, 1996, 75% Stage 3 by
December 31, 1998 and 100% Stage 3 by December 31, 1999.  At December
31, 1995, United operated 390 Stage 3 aircraft representing 70% of
United's total operating fleet, and thus is in compliance with these
regulations.

     The ANCA generally recognizes the rights of operators of
airports with noise problems to implement local noise abatement
procedures so long as such procedures do not interfere unreasonably
with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air
transportation system.  ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local
noise restrictions on Stage 3 aircraft first effective after October
1990, and establishes a regulatory notice and review process for
local restrictions on Stage 2 aircraft first proposed after October
1990.  While United has had sufficient scheduling flexibility to
accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to the present, United's
operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations
become more restrictive or widespread.

     The Environmental Protection Agency regulates operations,
including air carrier operations, which affect the quality of air in
the United States.  United has made all necessary modifications to
its operating fleet to meet emission standards issued by the
Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA").

     Federal and state environmental laws require that underground
storage tanks (USTs) be upgraded to new construction standards and
equipped with leak detection by December 22, 1998.  These
requirements are phased into effect based on the age, construction
and use of existing tanks.  United operates a number of underground
and above ground storage tanks throughout its system, primarily used
for the storage of fuels and deicing fluids.  A program for the
removal or upgrading of USTs and remediation of any related
contamination has been ongoing since 1987.  Compliance with these
federal and state UST regulations is not expected to have a material
adverse effect on United's financial condition.

     United has been identified by the EPA as a potentially
responsible party with respect to Superfund sites involving soil and
groundwater contamination at the Bay Area Drum Site in San Francisco,
California, the Chemsol, Inc. Site in Piscataway, New Jersey, the
Petrochem/Ekotek Site in Salt Lake City, Utah, the Monterey Park Site
at Monterey Park, California, the West Contra Costa Sanitary Landfill
Site in Richmond, California, and the Douglasville Site in Berks
County, Pennsylvania.  Because of the limited nature of the volume of
pollutants allegedly contributed by United to the above Superfund
sites, the outcome of these matters is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on United's financial condition.

     United is aware of soil and groundwater contamination present on
its leaseholds at several U.S. airports, with the most significant
locations being San Francisco International Airport, John F. Kennedy
International Airport in New York, Seattle Tacoma International
Airport, Stapleton International Airport in Denver (which closed in
1995) and Los Angeles International Airport in California.  United is
investigating these sites, assessing its obligations under applicable
environmental regulations and lease agreements and, where
appropriate, remediating these sites.  Remediation of these sites,
for which United may be responsible, is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on United's financial condition.

     Other Government Matters.  Besides the DOT and the FAA, other
federal agencies with jurisdiction over certain aspects of United's
operations are the Department of Justice (Antitrust Division and
Immigration and Naturalization Service), the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration, the Department of Labor (Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Programs of the Employment Standards Administration), the
National Labor Relations Board, the National Mediation Board, the
National Transportation Safety Board, the Treasury Department (U.S.
Customs Service), the Federal Communications Commission (use of radio
facilities by aircraft), and the United States Postal Service
(carriage of domestic and international mail).  In connection with
its service to cities in other countries, United is subject to
varying degrees of regulation by foreign governments.

     In time of war or during an unlimited national emergency or
civil defense emergency declared by the President or the Congress of
the United States, or in a situation short of this if approved by the
Director of the Office of Emergency Preparedness, the Commander in
Chief, Military Airlift Command, or any official designated by the
President to coordinate all civil and defense mobilization
activities, United may be required to provide airlift services to the
Military Airlift Command under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program.
As of February 1, 1996, up to 27 B747 and 12 DC-10 aircraft in
United's fleet could be subject to these requirements.

Fuel

     United's results of operations are significantly affected by the
price and availability of jet fuel.  Based on 1995 fuel consumption,
every $.01 change in the average annual price-per-gallon of jet fuel
caused a change of approximately $28 million in United's annual fuel
costs.  The table below shows United's fuel expenses, fuel
consumption, average price per gallon and fuel as a percent of total
operating expenses for annual periods from 1991 through 1995:

                        1995     1994     1993     1992      1991
                        ----     ----     ----     ----      ----
Fuel expense,                                                    
  including tax                                                  
  (in millions)       $1,680   $1,585   $1,718   $1,679    $1,674
Gallons consumed                                                 
  (in millions)        2,822    2,697    2,699    2,529     2,338
Average cost per                                                 
  gallon (in cents)     59.5     58.8     63.6     66.4      71.6
% of total                                                       
  operating expenses      12%      12%      13%      14%       15%


     United's average fuel cost per gallon in 1995 was 1.2% higher
than in 1994.  Changes in fuel prices are industry-wide occurrences
that benefit or harm United's competitors as well as United.  Lower
fuel prices may be offset by increased price competition and lower
revenues for all air carriers, including United.  There can be no
assurance that United will be able to increase its fares in response
to any increases in fuel prices in the future.

     In order to assure adequate supplies of fuel and to provide a
measure of control over fuel costs, United ships fuel on major
pipelines, maintains fuel storage facilities, and trades fuel to
locations where it is needed.  In 1995, almost all of United's fuel
was purchased under contracts with major U.S. and international oil
companies.  Most of these contracts are terminable by United on short
notice.  United also purchases minor volumes of fuel on the spot
market at some domestic locations.  Although United has not
experienced any problem with fuel availability in the past few years
and does not anticipate any in the near future,  it is impossible to
predict the future availability of jet fuel.  If there were major
reductions in the availability of jet fuel, United's business would
be adversely affected.

     The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 imposed a 4.3 cent
per gallon tax on commercial aviation jet fuel purchased for use in
domestic operations.  The industry was successful in obtaining a two
year exemption from the tax which expired October 1, 1995.  An
additional two year extension of the industry's exemption is included
in the budget reconciliation package currently stalled in Congress.
Since the fate of the jet fuel tax is caught in the budget impasse,
United as well as other carriers have been paying the tax since
October 1, 1995 and United cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the
fuel tax issue.

Insurance

     United carries liability insurance of a type customary in the
air transportation industry, in amounts which it deems adequate,
covering passenger liability, public liability and property damage
liability.  Insurance is subject to price fluctuations from time to
time.  The amount recoverable by United under aircraft hull insurance
covering all damage to its aircraft is not subject to any deductible
amount in the event of a total loss.

Employees - Labor Matters

     At December 31, 1995, the Company and its subsidiaries had
approximately 83,929 employees, of which approximately 82,160 were
employed by United (approximately eleven percent of whom are part-
time employees) and 1,769 were employed by United's subsidiaries.
Approximately 61% of United's employees were represented by various
labor organizations.

     The employee groups, number of employees, labor organization and
current contract status for each of United's major collective
bargaining groups as of December 31, 1995 are as follows:
  
                           Number of                Contract Open
       Employee Group      Employees      Union     For Amendment
       --------------      ---------      -----     -------------

       Mechanics, ramp
       servicemen & other
       ground employees     23,031        IAM      July 12, 2000 *
       
       Flight attendants    18,703        AFA      March 1, 1996
       
       Pilots                8,120        ALPA     April 12, 2000 *
       ___________________________
       *  However, certain provisions become amendable at a later date.

     United's relations with these labor organizations are governed
by the Railway Labor Act.  Under this Act, collective bargaining
agreements between United and these organizations become amendable
upon the expiration of their stated term.  If either party wishes to
modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other
party before the contract becomes amendable.  After receipt of such
notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations and, if no
agreement is reached, either party may request that a mediator be
appointed.  If no agreement is reached, the National Mediation Board
may determine, at any time, that an impasse exists and may proffer
arbitration.  Either party may decline to submit to arbitration.  If
arbitration is rejected, a 30-day "cooling off" period commences,
following which the labor organization may strike and the airline may
resort to "self-help," including the imposition of its proposed
amendments and the hiring of replacement workers.

     In February 1996, United and the Association of Flight
Attendants (the "AFA") reached tentative agreement on a new contract.
This agreement is subject to ratification by United's flight
attendants.  If ratified, the new agreement will replace the current
contract.  Ratification results are expected in April 1996.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

Flight Equipment

     As of December 31, 1995, United's operating aircraft fleet
totaled 558 jet aircraft, of which 266 were owned and 292 were
leased.  These aircraft are listed below:

                        
                        Average                                   Average
  Aircraft Type      No. of Seats    Owned    Leased*   Total   Age (Years)
  -------------      ------------    -----    ------    -----   -----------
  
  A320-200               144          --        29        29        1
  B727-222A              147          59        16        75       17
  B737-200               109          45        --        45       27
  B737-200A              109          24        --        24       16
  B737-300               126          10        91       101        7
  B737-500               108          27        30        57        4
  B747-100               393          17        --        17       24
  B747-200               346           2         7         9       17
  B747-400               389           3        21        24        4
  B757-200               188          33        55        88        4
  B767-200               168          19        --        19       13
  B767-300ER             211           3        20        23        3
  B777-200               292          --         8         8        0
  DC10-10                287          23         8        31       20
  DC10-30                298           1         7         8       16
  
  TOTAL OPERATING
  FLEET                              266       292       558       11
                                     ===       ===       ===       ==
  
    *  United's aircraft leases have initial terms of 4 to 26 years,
       and expiration dates range from 1999 through 2021.   Under the
       terms of leases for 283 of the aircraft in the operating fleet,
       United has the right to purchase the aircraft at the end of the
       lease term, in some cases at fair market value and in others at
       fair market value or a percentage of cost.
       
       
     As of December 31, 1995, 64 of the 266 aircraft owned by United
were encumbered under transaction agreements.

     In 1995 United took delivery of 16 new aircraft, eight B777-200s
and eight A320-200s.  United also retired one B747-100 aircraft.

     As of December 31, 1995, United had 26 B777-200s, four B747-400s
and four B757-200s on order which are scheduled to be delivered
between 1996 and 1999, and United has arrangements with Airbus
Industrie ("Airbus") and A320 engine manufacturer International Aero
Engines to lease an additional 21 A320-200 aircraft, which are
scheduled for delivery through 1998.  The following table sets forth
United's firm aircraft orders, options and expected delivery
schedules as of December 31, 1995:

  Order Status  Aircraft Type   Number    To Be Delivered    Delivery Rate
  ------------  -------------   ------    ---------------    -------------
  
  Firm Orders    B747-400         4        1996-1997         0-1 per month
                 B757-200         4        1996              0-2 per month
                 B777-200        26        1996-1999         0-2 per month
                                 --
  
            Total-Firms          34*
                                 
  Options**      A320-200        45        1997-2001         0-3 per month
                 B737***        137        1998-2002         0-5 per month
                 B747-400        40        1998-2003         0-2 per year
                 B757-200        29        1998-1999         0-2 per month
                 B767-300ER       5        1998-1999         0-1 per month
                 B777-200        34        1998-2000         0-1 per month
                                 --
  
            Total-Options       290
  ________________
    *  In addition, United has agreed to lease an additional 21 A320-200 
       aircraft.  Deliveries of these aircraft are expected to occur 
       between 1996 and 1998.
  
   **  Rate of deliveries with respect to option aircraft assumes that
       all options are exercised and that all orders subject to recon
       firmation are confirmed by United.
  
  ***  Models 300, 400 and 500, at United's discretion.

Ground Facilities

     In the vicinity of O'Hare, United owns a 106 acre complex
consisting of over one million square feet of office space for its
world headquarters, a computer facility and a training center.
United operates reservation centers in or near eight U.S. cities -
Chicago, Denver, Detroit, Honolulu, Los Angeles, San Francisco,
Seattle and Washington, D.C.  United also operates 138 city ticket
offices in the U.S., plus offices in the Pacific and European
countries served by United.  In addition, United operates four mini-
reservations centers in Rockford, Illinois, Moreno Valley and Suisun,
California and at its maintenance facility in Indianapolis, Indiana.

     United's Maintenance Operation Center ("MOC") at San Francisco
International Airport occupies 129 acres of land, three million
square feet of floor space and 12 aircraft hangar docks, under leases
expiring in 2003, with an option to extend for ten years.  Heavy
maintenance of aircraft and component maintenance for most of
United's fleet occurs at the MOC.  United also has a major facility
at the Oakland, California airport which is dedicated to airframe
maintenance and which includes a hangar with sufficient space to
accommodate maintenance work on four wide-bodied aircraft
simultaneously.  As of December 31, 1995, United employed
approximately 10,000 mechanics, inspectors, engineers and maintenance
support personnel at the MOC and approximately 1,400 at the Oakland
facility.  United also has line aircraft maintenance facilities at 64
domestic and international locations.

     United's Indianapolis Maintenance Center ("IMC") opened in 1994
and operates under a lease with the Indianapolis Airport Authority
which expires November 30, 2031.  IMC is a major aircraft maintenance
and overhaul facility and is being used for maintenance of Boeing 737
aircraft.  United is significantly expanding its operations at IMC in
order to maintain its fleets of Boeing 757 and 767 aircraft at the
facility in the future, construction of which began in 1995.  In
connection with incentives received, United has agreed to reach an
aggregate $800 million capital spending target by the year 2001 and
employ at least 7,500 individuals by the year 2004.  In the event
that such targets are not reached, United may be required to make
certain additional payments under related agreements.

     On February 28, 1995, United relocated its Denver hub operations
to the new Denver International Airport.  Under a new 30-year lease
and use agreement, expiring in 2023, United occupies 44 gates and
over one million square feet of exclusive terminal building space.
With the opening of the new airport, Stapleton International Airport
was closed to all aircraft operations.  United's flight training
center will continue to be located near Stapleton and is under lease,
including options to extend, until 2018.  This flight training center
consists of four buildings with a total of 300,000 square feet
located on 22 acres of land adjoining Stapleton.  The flight training
center accommodates 26 flight simulators and over 90 computer-based
training stations, as well as cockpit procedures trainers, autoflight
system trainers and emergency evacuation trainers.

     United has entered into various leases relating to its use of
airport landing areas, gates, hangar sites, terminal buildings and
other airport facilities in most of the municipalities it serves.
Major leases expire at Chicago O'Hare in 2018, San Francisco in 2011,
Denver in 2023 and Washington Dulles in 2015.  In many cases United
has constructed, at its expense, the buildings it occupies on its
leased properties.  In general, buildings and fixtures constructed by
United on leased land are the property of the lessor upon the
expiration of such leases.  United also has leased and improved
ticketing, sales and general office space in the downtown and
outlying areas of most of the larger cities in its system.  United
believes its facilities are suitable and adequate for its current
requirements.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     The Company is involved from time to time in legal proceedings
incidental to the ordinary course of its business.  Such proceedings
include claims brought by and against the Company or its subsidiaries
including claims seeking substantial compensatory and punitive
damages.  Such claims arise from routine commercial disputes as well
as incidents resulting in bodily injury and damage to property.  The
Company believes that the potential liabilities in all of the bodily
injury and property damage actions are adequately insured and none of
the other actions are expected to have any material adverse effect on
the Company or its subsidiaries.

1.  Travel Agency Commission Litigation -- On February 13, 1995 and
dates thereafter United and six other airlines were sued in various
courts around the nation by travel agents and ASTA claiming as a
class action that the carriers acted collusively in violation of
federal antitrust laws when they announced a cap on ticket sales
commissions payable to travel agencies by the carriers.  The cases
are now consolidated before the federal court in Minneapolis.  The
court, on August 23, 1995, denied the plaintiffs' motion for
preliminary injunction as well as the defendants' motion for summary
judgment.  As relief, the plaintiffs seek an order declaring the
carriers' commission cap action to be illegal and the recovery of
damages (trebled) to the agencies resulting from that action.  On
December 21, 1995, the carriers filed a motion to obtain damages
discovery from absent class members, which the magistrate judge
denied on January 22, 1996.  In his decision, the magistrate rejected
defendants' arguments that plaintiffs' efforts to mitigate damages
allegedly suffered as a result of the commission caps were relevant
to the litigation.  The defendants appealed the magistrate's decision
to the district court.

2.  Summers et al. v. State Street Bank and Trust Company et al. --
On April 14, 1995, plaintiffs filed a class action complaint (the
"Complaint") against State Street Bank and Trust Company ("State
Street"), the UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the
"Plan") and the UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP (the "Supplemental
Plan") in the United States District Court for the Northern District
of Illinois.  The Complaint is brought on behalf of a putative class
of all persons who are, or were as of July 12, 1994, participants or
beneficiaries of the Plan or the Supplemental Plan.  Plaintiffs
allege that State Street breached various fiduciary duties under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA") in
connection with the 1994 purchase by the Plan and Supplemental Plan
of UAL preferred stock.  The Plan and Supplemental Plan are nominal
defendants; no relief is sought from them.  The complaint seeks a
declaration that State Street has violated ERISA, restoration by
State Street to the Plan and Supplemental Plan of the amount of an
alleged "overpayment" for stock, and other relief.  United is
obligated, subject to certain exceptions, to indemnify State Street
for part or all of an adverse judgment and State Street's defense
costs.  The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint in its
entirety on July 12, 1995.

3.  Fry v. UAL Corp. -- On February 21, 1990, a purported class
action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division.   This complaint was
brought by several UAL stockholders, purportedly on behalf of all of
UAL stockholders who sold puts or common stock from October 29, 1987
through December 8, 1987.  The complaint alleged that UAL committed
common law fraud and violated Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder and the
Illinois Deceptive Trade Practices Act by falsely announcing that it
intended to distribute proceeds of sales of non-core businesses as a
special dividend, when in fact it was negotiating a cash tender offer
for the buyback of shares.  Plaintiffs claimed $160 million in
damages, plus attorneys' fees, fees and costs of plaintiff's
accountants and experts and other costs and disbursements.  UAL's
motion for summary judgment was granted on August 11, 1995.
Plaintiffs have filed a notice of appeal to the Seventh Circuit.

     United may be affected by legal proceedings brought by owners of
property located near certain airports.  Plaintiffs generally seek to
enjoin certain aircraft operations and/or to obtain damages against
airport operators and air carriers as a result of alleged aircraft
noise or air pollution.  Any liability or injunctive relief imposed
against airport operations or air carriers could result in higher
costs to United and other air carriers.

     The ultimate disposition of the matters discussed in this Item
3, and other claims affecting the Company, are not expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
results of operations.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matter was submitted to a vote of security holders of the
Company during the fourth quarter of 1995.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information regarding the executive officers of the Company is
as follows:

     GERALD GREENWALD.  Age 60.  Mr. Greenwald has been Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company and United since July 12,
1994.  Prior to joining the Company, he served as Chairman of Tatra
Truck Company, Czech Republic (a truck manufacturer) from March 1993
until July 1994.  Mr. Greenwald previously served as President of
Olympia & York Developments Limited (a real estate development
company that was in the process of a financial restructuring at the
time Mr. Greenwald agreed to serve as president and certain
subsidiaries of which filed for protection under federal bankruptcy
laws in connection with such restructuring) from April 1992 until
March 1993, and as Managing Director of Dillon Read & Co. Inc. (an
investment banking firm) in 1991-1992.

     JOHN A. EDWARDSON.  Age 46.  Mr. Edwardson has been President
since July 12, 1994 and Chief Operating Officer since March 30, 1995
of the Company and United and a member of the board of directors of
the Company since July 12, 1994.  Prior to joining the Company, he
served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Ameritech Corporation (a telecommunications company) from 1991 to
July 1994.

     JOSEPH R. O'GORMAN, JR.  Age 52.  Mr. O'Gorman has been
Executive Vice President of the Company since February 18, 1991 and
Executive Vice President - Fleet Operations and Administration of
United since April 1, 1995.  He served as Executive Vice President -
Operations of United from April 30, 1992 to March 31, 1995.  He had
served as Executive Vice President - Flight Services of United since
February 25, 1991.  Previously, Mr. O'Gorman served as Executive Vice
President - Operations of USAir Group (an air carrier) from August
1990 until February 1991.

     STUART I. ORAN.  Age 45.  Mr. Oran has been Executive Vice
President - Corporate Affairs and General Counsel of the Company and
United since July 12, 1994.  Prior to joining the Company, he was a
corporate partner with Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton and Garrison, a
law firm he joined in 1974.

     DOUGLAS A. HACKER.  Age 40.  Mr. Hacker has been Senior Vice
President - Finance and chief financial officer of the Company since
July 12, 1994.  He has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of United since February 13, 1996 and had been Senior Vice
President - Finance of United beginning March 8, 1993.  Prior to
joining United, Mr. Hacker served in various senior management
positions at American Airlines, Inc. (an air carrier) since July 1987
including Vice President - Corporate and Fleet Planning, Vice
President - Corporate Services, Vice President and Treasurer and Vice
President - Corporate Finance and Development.

     CHRISTOPHER D. BOWERS.  Age 48.  Mr. Bowers has been Senior Vice
President - International of United since April 1, 1995.  Prior to
assuming his current position, he was Vice President and General
Sales Manager of the Sales Division since April 1, 1988.

     DAVID COLTMAN.  Age 53.  Mr. Coltman has been Senior Vice
President - Marketing of United since April 1, 1995.  Previously, Mr.
Coltman served as Vice President - Atlantic Division in London since
January 25, 1989.

     RONO DUTTA.  Age 44.  Mr. Dutta has been Senior Vice President -
Planning of United since November 7, 1994 and became an executive
officer of United on April 1, 1995.  His prior positions with United
include Vice President - Cargo from September to November of 1994,
Vice President - U2 Development from April to September of 1994, Vice
President - Management Information Systems from July 1993 to April
1994, Senior Vice President - Maintenance Operation from May 1992 to
July 1993, Vice President - Base Maintenance Operations from June
1991 to May 1992, and Vice President - Financial Planning and
Analysis from November 1990 to June 1991.

     PAUL G. GEORGE.  Age 44.  Mr. George has been Senior Vice
President - People of United since April 11, 1988.

     JAMES E. GOODWIN.  Age 51.  Mr. Goodwin has been Senior Vice
President - North America of United since April 1, 1995.  He had
served as Senior Vice President - International of United since May
1992.  Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President - Maintenance
Operations since January 1991.

     There are no family relationships among the executive officers
of the Company.  The executive officers of the Company serve at the
discretion of the board of directors.

                               PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The Company's Common Stock, $.01 par value (the "Common Stock"),
is traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE")
under the symbol UAL, and is also listed on the Chicago Stock
Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange.  The following sets forth
for the periods indicated the high and low sales prices per share of
the Company's Common Stock on the NYSE Composite Tape and the
Company's old common stock outstanding immediately prior to the
Recapitalization (which occurred on July 12, 1994).  As a result of
the Recapitalization, the price per share of old common stock is not
comparable to the price per share of the Common Stock.

COMMON STOCK:
                          High                Low
  1995:
       1st quarter       $107 1/4            $ 87 5/8
       2nd quarter        143                 104
       3rd quarter        172                 137 1/2
       4th quarter        211 7/8             166

  1994:
       3rd quarter        105                  86 3/4
        (from July 13)
       4th quarter         96 7/8              83 1/8

OLD COMMON STOCK:

  1994:
       1st quarter        150                 123 3/4
       2nd quarter        130 1/2             115 1/8
       3rd quarter        130 1/2             125 1/2
        (through July 12)

     No dividends have been declared on the Company's common stock
during the past five years.  The payment of any future dividends on
the Common Stock and the amount thereof will be determined by the
Board of Directors of the Company in light of earnings, the financial
condition of the Company and other relevant factors.  At March 1,
1996, based on reports by the Company's transfer agent for the Common
Stock, there were 11,338 common stockholders of record.

     On February 29, 1996 the Board of Directors of UAL conditionally
approved a four-for-one split in the Common Stock.  The split, which
is scheduled to occur at the close of business on May 6, 1996 (which
is also the record date), is dependent on stockholder approval at its
April 24, 1996 annual meeting of a proposal to increase the number of
authorized shares of the Common Stock.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     Information required by this item is set forth under "Selected
Financial Data" of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders
and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
        AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

     Information required by this item is set forth under
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" of the Company's 1995 Annual Report to
Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     Information required by this item is set forth under "Statements
of Consolidated Operations", "Statements of Consolidated Financial
Position," "Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows," "Statements of
Consolidated Shareholders' Equity," "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements" and "Report of Independent Public Accountants" of the
Company's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.


                              PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its 1996 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.  Information regarding the executive officers
is included in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant."

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its 1996 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
          AND MANAGEMENT.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its 1996 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     Information required by this item is incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement for its 1996 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.


                               PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
          ON FORM 8-K.

(a)  1.   Financial Statements.  The following is a list of the
financial statements, all of which are incorporated in this report by
reference from the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders
(portions of which are filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K).
          
     Statements of Consolidated Operations for the years ended
      December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
               
     Statements of Consolidated Financial Position - December 31,
      1995 and 1994
               
     Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the years ended
      December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
               
     Statements of Consolidated Shareholders' Equity for the years
      ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993
               
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
          
     2.   Financial Statement Schedules.  The financial statement
schedule required by this item is listed below and included in this
report on page F-1 after the signature page hereto.

     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years
     ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable,
     not required or the required information is shown in the
     consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
     
     3.   Exhibits.  The following is an index of exhibits included in
this report or incorporated herein by reference.

 3.1    Restated Certificate of Incorporation as filed in Delaware
        on July 12, 1994, as corrected on February 2, 1995 (filed as
        Exhibit 3.1 to UAL Corporation's ("UAL") Form S-4
        Registration Statement (Registration No. 33-57579) and
        incorporated herein by reference).
 
 3.2    Certificate of Amendment of the Restated Certificate of
        Incorporation of UAL Corporation as filed in Delaware on May
        25, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to UAL's Form 8-K dated June
        27, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 3.3    By-laws (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
        reference).
 
 4.1    Rights Agreement dated as of December 11, 1986 between UAL
        Corporation and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as
        Rights Agent, as amended (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to UAL's Form
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, as amended, and
        incorporated herein by reference).
 
 4.2    Deposit Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994 between UAL
        Corporation and holders from time to time of Depositary
        Receipts described herein (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to UAL's
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and
        incorporated herein by reference).
 
 4.3    Indenture dated as of April 3, 1995 between UAL Corporation
        and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4.1
        to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995, as
        amended, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 4.4    Officer's Certificate relating to UAL's 6-3/8% Convertible
        Subordinated Debentures due 2025 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
        UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1995, as
        amended, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 4.5    Form of UAL's 6-3/8% Convertible Subordinated Debenture due
        2025 (filed as Exhibit 4.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended March 31, 1995, as amended, and incorporated
        herein by reference).
 
        UAL's indebtedness under any single instrument does not
        exceed 10% of UAL's total assets on a consolidated basis.
        Copies of such instruments will be furnished to the
        Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
 
 10.1   Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Recapitalization,
        dated as of March 25, 1994 (the "Recapitalization
        Agreement"), as amended, among UAL Corporation, the Air Line
        Pilots Association, International and the International
        Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (filed as
        Exhibit A to Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 8-K dated June 2,
        1994 and incorporated herein by reference; amendment thereto
        filed as Exhibit 10.1 of UAL's Form 8-K dated June 29, 1994
        and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.2   Waiver and Agreement, dated as of December 23, 1994, to the
        Recapitalization Agreement among UAL Corporation, the Air
        Line Pilots Association, International and the International
        Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (filed as
        Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December
        31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.3   Third Amendment, dated as of March 15, 1995, to the
        Recapitalization Agreement among UAL Corporation, the Air
        Line Pilots Association, International and the International
        Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (filed as
        Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December
        31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.4   UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan, effective as
        of July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated
        herein by reference).
 
 10.5   First Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership
        Plan, dated December 28, 1994 and effective as of July 12,
        1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.39 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated herein
        by reference).
 
 10.6   Second Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership
        Plan, dated as of August 17, 1995 and effective as of July
        12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
        reference).
 
 10.7   Third Amendment to UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership
        Plan, dated as of December 28, 1995 and effective as of July
        12, 1994.
 
 10.8   UAL Corporation Employee Stock Ownership Plan Trust
        Agreement between UAL Corporation and State Street Bank and
        Trust Company, effective July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit
        10.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
        1994 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.9   UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP, effective as of July 12,
        1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
        reference).
 
 10.10  First Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP, dated
        February 22, 1995 and effective as of July 12, 1994 (filed
        as Exhibit 10.1 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        March 31, 1995, as amended, and incorporated herein by
        reference).
 
 10.11  Second Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP, dated
        as of August 17, 1995 and effective as of July 12, 1994
        (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended September 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by
        reference).
 
 10.12  Third Amendment to UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP, dated
        as of December 28, 1995 and effective as of July 12, 1994.
 
 10.13  UAL Corporation Supplemental ESOP Trust Agreement between
        UAL Corporation and State Street Bank and Trust Company,
        effective July 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
        incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.14  Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 25,
        1994, between UAL Corporation and State Street Bank and
        Trust Company (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
        by reference).
 
 10.15  Amendment No. 1 to Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated
        as of June 2, 1994, between UAL Corporation and State Street
        Bank and Trust Company (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and
        incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.16  Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 11,
        1995, between UAL Corporation and State Street Bank and
        Trust Company.
 
 10.17  Class I Junior Preferred Stockholders' Agreement dated as of
        June 12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated herein
        by reference).
 
 10.18  Class SAM Preferred Stockholders' Agreement dated as of July
        12, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
        reference).
 
 10.19  First Refusal Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994, as
        amended by First Amendment dated as of February 24, 1995
        (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated herein
        by reference).
 
 10.20  Second Amendment to First Refusal Agreement dated as of
        February 29, 1996.
 
 10.21  UAL Corporation 1981 Incentive Stock Plan.
 
 10.22  UAL Corporation 1988 Restricted Stock Plan.
 
 10.23  UAL Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended
        (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 1994, as amended, and incorporated herein
        by reference).
 
 10.24  UAL Corporation Retirement Plan for Outside Directors, as
        supplemented March 30, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995 and
        incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.25  Description of Complimentary Travel and Cargo Carriage
        Benefits for UAL Directors.
 
 10.26  UAL Corporation 1995 Directors Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.19
        to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, as
        amended, and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.27  Employment Agreement between UAL Corporation and Gerald
        Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
        reference).
 
 10.28  Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement between UAL
        Corporation and Gerald Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
        UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and
        incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.29  Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between UAL Corporation
        and Gerald Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to UAL's Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated
        herein by reference).
 
 10.30  Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement between UAL Corporation
        and Gerald Greenwald (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to UAL's Form 10-
        Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated
        herein by reference).
 
 10.31  Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between UAL Corporation
        and John A. Edwardson (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated
        herein by reference).
 
 10.32  Restricted Stock Deposit Agreement between UAL Corporation
        and Stuart I. Oran (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to UAL's Form
        10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994 and incorporated
        herein by reference).
 
 10.33  United Supplemental Retirement Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.42
        to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992, and
        incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.34  Description of Officer Benefits.
 
 10.35  Form of Severance Agreement between UAL Corporation and
        certain officers of United Air Lines, Inc. (filed as Exhibit
        10.27 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993
        and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.36  Letter Agreement dated April 28, 1995 between UAL
        Corporation, United Air Lines, Inc. and Joseph R. O'Gorman
        (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended June 30, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference).
 
 10.37  Change Order No. 7 dated September 19, 1995 to the Agreement
        dated December 18, 1990 between The Boeing Company and
        United Air Lines, Inc. (and United Worldwide Corporation)
        for acquisition of 777-200 aircraft (as previously amended
        and supplemented, the "777-200 Purchase Agreement" (filed as
        Exhibit 10.7 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December
        31, 1990, and incorporated herein by reference; supplements
        thereto filed as (i) Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.22 to UAL's
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993, (ii) Exhibit
        10.2 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1993, (iii) Exhibit 10.14 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended June 30, 1994, (iv) Exhibits 10.27 and 10.28 to UAL's
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, (v) Exhibits
        10.2 and 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
        31, 1995, and (vi) Exhibits 10.4, 10.5 and 10.6 to UAL's
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995, and
        incorporated herein by reference)).  (Exhibit 10.37 hereto
        is filed with a request for confidential treatment of
        certain portions thereof.)
 
 10.38  Change Order No. 8 dated October 17, 1995 to the 777-200
        Purchase Agreement.  (Exhibit 10.38 hereto is filed with a
        request for confidential treatment of certain portions
        thereof.)
 
 10.39  Supplemental Agreement No. 3 dated October 27, 1995 to the
        777-200 Purchase Agreement.  (Exhibit 10.39 hereto is filed
        with a request for confidential treatment of certain
        portions thereof.)
 
 10.40  Letter Agreement No. 6-1162-JME-118 dated December 19, 1995
        to the 777-200 Purchase Agreement.  (Exhibit 10.40 hereto is
        filed with a request for confidential treatment of certain
        portions thereof.)
 
 10.41  Supplemental Agreement No. 7 dated as of December 29, 1995
        to the Agreement dated December 18, 1990 between The Boeing
        Company and United Air Lines, Inc. (and United Worldwide
        Corporation) for acquisition of 747-400 aircraft (as
        previously amended and supplemented, the "747-400 Purchase
        Agreement" (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to UAL's Form 10-K for the
        year ended December 31, 1990, and incorporated herein by
        reference; supplements thereto filed as (i) Exhibits 10.4
        and 10.5 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1991, (ii) Exhibits 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6 and 10.22 to
        UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993, (iii)
        Exhibit 10.3 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December
        31, 1993, (iv) Exhibit 10.14 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended June 30, 1994, (v) Exhibits 10.29 and 10.30 to
        UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, (vi)
        Exhibits 10.4 through 10.8 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended March 31, 1995, and (vii) Exhibits 10.7 and
        10.8 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995,
        and incorporated herein by reference)).  (Exhibit 10.41
        hereto is filed with a request for confidential treatment of
        certain portions thereof.)
 
 10.42  Amendment No. 4 dated November 27, 1995 to the Agreement
        dated August 10, 1992 between AVSA, S.A.R.L., as seller, and
        United Air Lines, Inc., as buyer, for the acquisition of
        Airbus Industrie A320-200 model aircraft (as previously
        amended and supplemented, "A320-200 Purchase Agreement"
        (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year
        ended December 31, 1992, and incorporated herein by
        reference; supplements thereto filed as (i) Exhibits 10.4
        and 10.5 to UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1993, (ii) Exhibits 10.15 and 10.16 to UAL's Form 10-Q for
        the quarter ended June 30, 1994, (iii) Exhibit 10.31 to
        UAL's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and
        (iv) Exhibit 10.9 to UAL's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        June 30, 1995, and incorporated herein by reference)).
        (Exhibit 10.42 hereto is filed with a request for
        confidential treatment of certain portions thereof.)
 
 11     Calculation of fully diluted net earnings per share.
 
 12.1   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
 
 12.2   Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and
        Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.
 
 13     Certain portions of UAL Corporation's 1995 Annual Report to
        Stockholders.
 
 21     List of Registrant's subsidiaries.
 
 23     Consent of Independent Public Accountants.
 
 27     Financial Data Schedule.
 
 99     Annual Report on Form 11-K for Employees' Stock Purchase
        Plan of UAL Corporation.
 
Each of Exhibits 10.21 through 10.32 and 10.34 through 10.36 is a
management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to
be filed as an exhibit to Registrant's Form 10-K pursuant to Item
14(c) of Form 10-K.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

     Form 8-K dated October 2, 1995 to report a press release issued
regarding UAL exploring possible acquisition of USAir.
     
     Form 8-K dated November 13, 1995 to report a press release
issued regarding UAL ceases acquisition talks with USAir.
     
     Form 8-K dated January 23, 1996 to report a press release issued
regarding UAL earnings release.
     
     Form 8-K dated January 29, 1996 to report a press release issued
regarding UAL credit improvement initiatives.

SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, on the 29th day of February, 1996.

                         UAL CORPORATION



                         By:  /s/ Gerald Greenwald
                              Gerald Greenwald
                              Chairman of the Board and Chief
                              Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below on the 29th day of February, 1996
by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated.



/s/ Gerald Greenwald                  /s/ James J. O'Connor
Gerald Greenwald                      James J. O'Connor
Chairman of the Board and Chief       Director
Executive Officer (principal
executive officer)
                                      
                                      
/s/ John A. Edwardson                 /s/ John F. Peterpaul
John A. Edwardson                     John F. Peterpaul
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ Duane D. Fitzgerald               /s/ Paul E. Tierney, Jr.
Duane D. Fitzgerald                   Paul E. Tierney, Jr.
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ Michael H. Glawe                  /s/ John K. Van de Kamp
Michael H. Glawe                      John K. Van de Kamp
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ Richard D. McCormick              /s/ Joseph V. Vittoria
Richard D. McCormick                  Joseph V. Vittoria
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ John F. McGillicuddy              /s/ Paul A. Volcker
John F. McGillicuddy                  Paul A. Volcker
Director                              Director
                                      
                                      
/s/ Douglas A. Hacker                 
Douglas A. Hacker                     
Senior Vice President - Finance       
(principal financial and
accounting officer)









