
10-K
TERADYNE, INC.




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
[X]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                       OR

[ ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                             Commission file number 1-6462
                            -------------------------------

                                    TERADYNE, INC.
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



      Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (617) 482-2700
                            ------------------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes[X] No [  ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or in any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of February 27, 2000 was $14.6 billion based upon the composite
closing price of the registrant's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on
that date.

     The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's only class of Common
Stock as of February 27, 2000 was 172,399,504 shares.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the registrant's proxy statement in connection with its 2000
annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

                                   FORM 10-K

                                     PART I

ITEM 1:  BUSINESS

     Teradyne, Inc. is a leading manufacturer of automatic test equipment
("ATE") and related software for the electronics and communications industries.
Products include systems to test semiconductors ("semiconductor test systems"),
circuit-boards ("circuit-board test systems"), telephone lines and networks
("telecommunication test systems"), and software ("software test systems"). The
Company is also a leading manufacturer of backplanes and associated connectors
used in electronic systems ("backplane connection systems"). Circuit-board test
systems, telecommunications test systems, and software test systems have been
combined into "other test systems" for purposes of reporting the Company's
operating segments. For financial information concerning these operating
segments, see "Note N: Operating Segment and Geographic Information" in Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the
term "Company" as used herein includes Teradyne, Inc. and all its subsidiaries.

     Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not historical
facts, so called "forward looking statements," are made pursuant to the safe
harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that all forward looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties, including those detailed in the Company's filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. See also "Item 7: Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Certain Factors
That May Affect Future Results."

PRODUCTS

     Semiconductor test systems produced by the Company are used by electronic
component manufacturers in the design and testing of a wide variety of
semiconductor products, including logic, memory, mixed signal, and system on a
chip integrated circuits. Semiconductor test systems are sold to semiconductor
manufacturers and subcontractors to the semiconductor industry. Semiconductor
manufacturers use the Company's semiconductor test systems to measure product
performance, to improve product quality, to shorten time to market, to enhance
manufacturability, to conserve labor costs, and to increase production yields.
Semiconductor test systems accounted for 68% of consolidated net sales in 1999,
65% in 1998, and 67% in 1997.

     Backplane connection systems are used principally for the computer,
communications, and military/aerospace industries. A backplane is an assembly
into which printed circuit boards are inserted that provides for the
interconnection of electrical signals between the circuit boards and the other
elements of the system. The Company produces both printed circuit and metal
backplanes, along with mating circuit-board connectors. Backplane connection
systems customers include makers of data storage systems, telecommunications
gear, and routers and servers. In addition, backplane connection systems have a
long-standing military/aerospace customer base. Backplane connection systems
accounted for 21% of consolidated net sales in 1999, 18% in 1998, and 17% in
1997.

     Circuit-board test systems are used by electronic equipment manufacturers
for the design and testing of circuit boards and other assemblies. Circuit-board
test systems are also sold to customers across most sectors of the electronics
industry and to companies in other industries that use electronic devices in
high volume. Similar to semiconductor test systems, circuit-board test systems
customers use their test systems and related software to increase product
performance, to improve product quality, to shorten time to market, to enhance
manufacturability, to conserve labor costs, and to increase production yields.
Circuit-board test systems accounted for 6% of consolidated net sales in 1999,
10% in 1998, and 9% in 1997.

     Telecommunications test systems are used by telephone operating companies
for the testing and maintenance of their subscriber telephone lines and related
equipment. Telecommunications test systems accounted for 2% of consolidated net
sales in 1999 and 5% in 1998 and 1997.



     Software test systems are used by a number of industries to test
communications networks, computerized telecommunication systems, and web based
applications. Software test systems accounted for 3% of consolidated net sales
in 1999 and 2% in 1998 and 1997.

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION

     The Company's systems are extremely complex and require extensive support
both by the customer and the Company. Prices for the Company's systems can reach
$3 million or more. In 1999, principally all of the Company's operating segments
reported sales to Motorola Inc. accounting for a total of 11% of consolidated
net sales. In 1999, the Company's three largest customers accounted for 26% of
consolidated net sales.

     Direct sales to United States government agencies accounted for less than
2% of consolidated net sales in 1999, 1998, and 1997. Approximately 4% of other
test systems segment sales were to United States government agencies in 1999.
Sales are also made within each of the Company's segments to customers who are
government contractors. Approximately 5% of backplane connection systems sales
and approximately 16% of other test systems segment sales fell into this
category during 1999.

     The Company has sales and service offices throughout North America, Europe,
the Asia Pacific region, and Japan as the Company's customers outside the United
States are located primarily in those geographic areas. The Company sells in
these areas predominantly utilizing a direct sales force. Substantially all of
the Company's manufacturing activities are conducted in the United States. Sales
to customers outside the United States accounted for 52% of consolidated net
sales in 1999, 46% in 1998, and 51% in 1997.

     The Company is subject to the inherent risks involved in international
trade, such as political and economic instability, restrictive trade policies,
controls on funds transfer, currency fluctuations, difficulties in managing
distributors, potentially adverse tax consequences, and the possibility of
difficulty in accounts receivable collection. The Company attempts to reduce the
effects of currency fluctuations by hedging part of its exposed position and by
conducting some of its international transactions in U.S. dollars or dollar
equivalents. See also "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risks."

COMPETITION

     The Company faces substantial competition, throughout the world, in each
operating segment. Some of these competitors have substantially greater
financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing,
marketing, and distribution of their products. The Company also faces
competition from internal suppliers at several of its customers. Competition is
principally based on technical performance, equipment and service reliability,
reputation and price. New product introductions by the Company's competitors
could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of existing
products.

BACKLOG

     On December 31, 1999, the Company's backlog of unfilled orders for
semiconductor test systems, backplane connection systems and other test systems
segments was approximately $700.0 million, $175.4 million, and $104.1 million,
respectively, compared with $334.0 million, $131.1 million and $114.7 million,
respectively on December 31, 1998. Of the backlog at December 31, 1999,
approximately 99% of the semiconductor test systems backlog and backplane
connection systems backlog and approximately 68% of the other test systems
backlog are expected to be delivered in 2000. The Company's past experience
indicates that a portion of orders included in the backlog may be canceled.
There are no seasonal factors related to the backlog.

RAW MATERIALS

     The Company's products require a wide variety of electronic and mechanical
components. The Company can experience occasional delays in obtaining timely
delivery of certain items. Additionally, the Company could experience a
temporary adverse impact if any of its sole source suppliers ceased to deliver
products. Any prolonged inability of the Company to obtain adequate yields or
deliveries, or any other circumstances that



would require the Company to seek alternative sources of supply could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition, and
results of operations.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

     The development of products by the Company, both hardware and software, is
largely based on proprietary information. The Company protects its rights in
proprietary information through various methods such as copyrights, trademarks,
patents and patent applications, software license agreements, and employee
agreements. Any invalidation of the Company's intellectual property rights could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 1999 the Company employed 7,500 people. Since the
inception of the Company's business, there have been no work stoppages or other
labor disturbances. The Company has no collective bargaining contracts.

ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES

     The highly technical nature of the Company's products requires a large and
continuing engineering and development effort. Engineering and development
expenditures for new and improved products were approximately $228.6 million in
1999, $195.2 million in 1998, and $162.5 million in 1997. These expenditures
amounted to approximately 13% of consolidated net sales in 1999, 1998, and 1997.

ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS

     The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and
regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly from manufacturing
plant wastes and emissions. These laws include the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, the Superfund Amendment and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Clean
Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of
1976, and the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984. In the opinion of
management, the costs associated with complying with these laws and regulations
have not had and are currently not expected to have a material adverse effect
upon the financial position of the Company.



                       EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     The following table sets forth the names of all executive officers of the
Company and certain other information relating to their positions held with the
Company and other business experience. Executive officers of the Company do not
have a specific term of office but rather serve at the discretion of the Board
of Directors.





ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES

     The Company's executive offices are in Boston, Massachusetts. Manufacturing
and other operations are carried on in several locations. The following table
provides certain information as to the Company's principal general offices and
manufacturing facilities.



     Approximately 112,000 square feet of the floor space the Company owns in
Agoura Hills is unoccupied and therefore available for future expansion.

ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the
ordinary course of business. Management does not believe these actions will have
a material affect on the financial position or results of operations of the
Company.

ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     None.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

     The following table shows the market range for the Company's Common Stock
based on reported sale prices on the New York Stock Exchange, after giving
effect to the two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock
dividend distributed on August 31, 1999.



     The number of record holders of the Company's Common Stock at February 27,
2000 was 2,520.

     The Company has never paid cash dividends because it has been its policy to
use earnings to finance expansion and growth. Payment of future cash dividends
will rest within the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend, among
other things, upon the Company's earnings, capital requirements, and financial
condition. The Company presently expects to retain all of its earnings for use
in the business.

ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



- ---------------
* Note: Previously published financial data have been restated to give effect to
  the two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend
  distributed on August 31, 1999.



ITEM 7:  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

                 SELECTED RELATIONSHIPS WITHIN THE CONSOLIDATED
                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS:

  1999 compared to 1998

     Sales increased 20% in 1999 to a record $1,790.9 million from $1,489.2
million in 1998. Semiconductor test systems shipments increased by 25% due to
increased orders resulting from capacity expansion at semiconductor
manufacturers and subcontractors. Sales of backplane connection systems to
unaffiliated customers grew 39% as a result of continued growth in demand from
networking, data storage, and other high technology customers. Other test
systems sales were down 18% from 1998 with decreases in telecommunications test
systems of 45% and circuit-board test systems of 20%. These decreases were a
result of telecommunication customers reducing investment in traditional voice
testing technology and circuit-board test systems customers seeking lower cost
solutions and or new solutions to test increasing complex circuit-boards. Other
test systems sales decreases were offset slightly by an increase of 42% in sales
of software test systems to customers within the telecommunication and web-based
application development markets.

     Net income grew $89.6 million to $191.7 million in 1999 from $102.1 million
in 1998. Income before income taxes increased $127.9 million from $145.9 million
in 1998 to $273.8 million in 1999. Semiconductor test systems and backplane
connection systems income before income taxes increased $183.4 million and $29.2
million, respectively in 1999 due to increased sales. Other test systems income
before income taxes decreased $46.5 million in 1999 resulting in a loss before
income taxes of $14.3 million in 1999. This decrease in income before income
taxes was due to decreased sales coupled with the Company maintaining its
engineering and development of new products.

     Incoming orders increased 82% from $1,206.5 million in 1998 to a record
$2,190.6 million in 1999. Orders increased in nearly all operating segments and
were led by a 130% increase in semiconductor test systems orders. Backplane
connection systems and software test systems orders both increased 34% and
circuit-board



test systems orders increased by a modest 4%. Orders for telecommunications test
systems decreased 59% in 1999. As a result of record bookings, the Company's
backlog increased 69% to a record $979.5 million.

     Costs of sales as a percentage of sales decreased from 64% of sales in 1998
to 59% of sales in 1999. Included in cost of sales in 1998 was a $23.0 million
charge for excess inventory. The charge resulted from the drop in demand for
semiconductor test systems products. Excluding this charge cost of sales
decreased from 62% to 59%. The decrease in cost of sales was primarily due to
the increased utilization of the Company's manufacturing overhead as sales
volume increased while certain components of cost of sales remained fixed.

     Engineering and development expenses were 13% of sales in both 1999 and
1998 representing a year over year increase of $33.4 million. The increase was
primarily due to new product development expenses in semiconductor test systems
although there were increased expenses related to product development in each of
the Company's operating segments.

     Selling and administrative expenses were 14% of sales in both 1999 and 1998
representing a year over year increase of $43.5 million. The increase was due to
higher compensation related expenses and spending in support of increased
semiconductor test systems and software test systems sales.

     Interest income increased $3.8 million to $17.3 million in 1999 compared to
1998 due to an increase in the Company's average invested balances.

     The Company's effective tax rate was 30% in 1999 and 1998. The Company
utilized export sales corporation benefits and certain research and development
tax credits to operate below the U.S. statutory rate of 35%.

  1998 compared to 1997

     Sales increased 18% in 1998 to $1,489.2 million from $1,266.3 million in
1997. Due to a strong backlog at the beginning of 1998, semiconductor test
systems shipments increased by 14%, despite a decline in sales by the
semiconductor test equipment market as a whole. Sales of backplane connection
systems to unaffiliated customers grew 23% as a result of growth in demand from
networking, data storage, and other high technology customers. Other test
systems sales were up 31% from 1997 with increases in circuit-board test systems
of 28%, telecommunications test systems of 20%, and software test systems of
77%. Net income fell from $127.6 million in 1997 to $102.1 million in 1998.
Excluding the effect of pre-tax special charges of $23.0 million for excess raw
material inventory and $5.0 million for acquired in-process technology in 1998
and 1997, respectively, income before income taxes decreased $29.5 million from
$198.4 million in 1997 to $168.9 million in 1998.

     Incoming orders decreased 25% from $1,612.4 million in 1997 to $1,206.5
million in 1998. A 40% drop in semiconductor test system orders drove the
decline. Offsetting that decline, backplane connection systems orders grew 36%
and software test systems orders increased by 73%. Orders for circuit-board test
systems and telecommunications test systems decreased 3% and 38%, respectively.
The Company's backlog fell 33% to $579.8 million as a result of the decrease in
orders.

     Costs of sales as a percentage of sales, excluding a 1998 charge of $23.0
million for excess inventory, increased from 58% of sales in 1997 to 62% of
sales in 1998. The charge for excess inventory resulted from the drop in demand
for semiconductor test systems products. The increase in cost of sales was
primarily due to higher costs related to the increased shipment of new
semiconductor test systems products and the relationship of fixed manufacturing
costs to the lower semiconductor test systems shipment volume in the second half
of 1998. In addition, backplane connection systems 1998 cost of sales, as a
percentage of sales, increased over 1997 as a result of capacity expansion at
its printed circuit-board facility and the costs to support production activity
of connector design wins at several new customers.

     Engineering and development expenses were 13% of sales in both 1997 and
1998 representing a year over year increase of $32.6 million. The increases were
primarily in semiconductor test systems although there were increased expenses
related to product development in each of the operating segments.



     Selling and administrative expenses increased by $18.8 million in 1998 over
1997, representing a decrease from 15% of sales in 1997 to 14% of sales in 1998.
The dollar increase was primarily related to the introduction and marketing of
new semiconductor and software test system products.

     The Company's effective tax rate was 30% in 1998 compared to 34% in 1997.
The tax rate declined due to increases in certain research and development tax
credits and increases in export sales corporation benefits.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The Company's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance
increased $89.5 million in 1999, to $387.4 million. The Company has been able to
generate cash from operating activities in each of the last three years. The
primary source of cash from operating activities has been net income, as
adjusted to exclude the effects of non-cash items such as depreciation and
amortization. Net income from operating activities, adjusted to exclude the
effects of non-cash items, for each of the last three years was $278.3 million
in 1999, $186.0 million in 1998, and $189.5 million 1997. The other source or
use of cash from operating activities has been changes in assets and liabilities
other than those assets and liabilities resulting from investing and financing
activities. The cash effect of changes in assets and liabilities for each of the
last three years was: a $89.2 million source in 1999, a $52.6 million source in
1998; and an $176.0 million use in 1997.

     The Company used $244.8 million of cash for investing activities in 1999,
$101.6 million in 1998, and $77.4 million in 1997. Investing activities consist
of purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities and purchases of
capital assets to support long-term growth. Capital expenditures were $151.2
million in 1999, $164.4 million in 1998, and $132.1 million in 1997.

     The Company used $126.8 million of cash for financing activities in 1999,
$26.2 million in 1998, and $62.9 million in 1997. Financing activities include
sales and repurchases of the Company's common stock, as well as repayments of
debt. During 1999, 1998, and 1997 net common stock activity used $125.5 million,
$24.6 million, and $60.5 million of cash, respectively. Since 1996, the Company
has used $393.3 million of cash to repurchase 16.2 million shares of its common
stock on the open market.

     The Company believes its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities
balance of $387.4 million, together with other sources of funds, including cash
flow generated from operations and the available borrowing capacity of $120.0
million under its line of credit agreement, will be sufficient to meet working
capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable future.

     Inflation has not had a significant long-term impact on earnings.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1999, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 137,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities -- Deferral of the
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133." SFAS No. 137 amends SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" which was issued
in June 1998 and was to be effective for all fiscal quarters of fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 1999. SFAS No. 137 defers the effective date of SFAS
No. 133 to be effective for all fiscal quarters of all fiscal years beginning
after June 15, 2000. Accordingly, the Company will adopt the provisions of SFAS
No. 133 for its 2001 fiscal year. SFAS No. 133 requires that all derivative
instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the
fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other
comprehensive income, depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of
a hedge transaction and the type of hedge transaction. Management is currently
evaluating the effects of this change on its recording of derivatives and
hedging activities.

     In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 ("SAB 101"), "Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements." SAB 101 summarizes the SEC's view in applying generally accepted
accounting principles to selected revenue recognition issues. The application of
the guidance in SAB 101 will be required in the Company's fiscal year 2000. The
effects of applying this guidance will be reported as a cumulative effect
adjustment resulting from a change in



accounting principle. The Company has not completed its evaluation of SAB 101
and is therefore unable to determine its impact.

ITEM 7A:  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS

EXCHANGE RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

     The Company regularly enters into forward contracts in European and
Japanese currencies to hedge its overseas net monetary position and firm
commitments. The Company's firm commitments consist of certain orders received
in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Forward currency contracts generally have
maturities of less than one year. These contracts are used to reduce the
Company's risk associated with exchange rate movements, as gains and losses on
these contracts are intended to offset exchange losses and gains on underlying
exposures. The Company does not engage in currency speculation.

     At December 31, 1999 the face amount of outstanding forward currency
contracts to buy U.S. dollars for non U.S. currencies was $62.4 million. A 10%
fluctuation in exchange rates for these currencies would change the fair value
by approximately $6.2 million. However, since these contracts hedge non U.S.
currency transactions, any change in the fair value of the contracts would be
offset by opposite changes in the underlying value of the transactions being
hedged. The hypothetical movement was estimated by calculating the fair value of
the forward currency contracts at December 31, 1999 and comparing that with
those calculated using hypothetical forward currency exchange rates.

INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT

     Due to its short-term duration the fair value of the Company's cash and
investment portfolio at December 31, 1999 approximated carrying value. Market
risk was estimated as the potential decrease in fair value resulting from a
hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates for issues contained in the
investment portfolio. The resulting hypothetical fair value was not materially
different from the year-end carrying value.

CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

     From time to time, information provided by the Company, statements made by
its employees or information included in its filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (including this Form 10-K and the Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders) may contain statements which are not historical facts, so-called
"forward looking statements," which involve risks and uncertainties. In
particular, statements in "Item 1: Business" relating to the Company's delivery
time of unfilled orders, and in "Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" relating to the sufficiency of
capital to meet working capital and planned capital expenditures, may be forward
looking statements. The Company's actual future results may differ significantly
from those stated in any forward looking statements. Factors that may cause such
differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Each
of these factors, and others, are discussed from time to time in the Company's
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

     The Company's future results are subject to substantial risks and
uncertainties. The Company's business and results of operations depend in
significant part upon capital expenditures of manufacturers of semiconductors,
which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for
semiconductors and products incorporating semiconductors. The semiconductor
industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of over supply, which
often have had a severe effect on the semiconductor industry's demand for test
equipment, including systems manufactured and marketed by the Company. The
Company believes that the markets for newer generations of semiconductors will
also be subject to similar fluctuations. There can be no assurance that any
future increase in semiconductor test systems bookings for a calendar quarter
will be sustained in subsequent quarters. In addition, any factor adversely
affecting the semiconductor industry or particular segments within the
semiconductor industry may adversely affect the Company's business, financial
condition and operating results.



     The Company relies on certain intellectual property protections to preserve
its intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, and trade
secrets. While the Company believes that its patents, copyrights, and trade
secrets have value, in general no single one is in itself essential. The Company
believes that its technological position depends primarily on the technical
competence and creative ability of its research and development personnel. From
time to time the Company is notified that it may be in violation of patents held
by others. An assertion of patent infringement against the Company, if
successful, could have a material adverse effect on the Company or could require
a lengthy and expensive defense which could adversely affect the Company's
operating results.

     The development of new technologies, commercialization of those
technologies into products, and market acceptance and customer demand for those
products is critical to the Company's success. Successful product development
and introduction depends upon a number of factors, including new product
selection, development of competitive products by competitors, timely and
efficient completion of product design, timely and efficient implementation of
manufacturing and assembly processes and product performance at customer
locations.

     The Company faces substantial competition, throughout the world, in each
operating segment. Some of these competitors have substantially greater
financial and other resources to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing
and distribution of their products. The Company also faces competition from
internal suppliers at several of its customers. Certain of the Company's
competitors have introduced or announced new products with certain performance
characteristics which may be considered equal or superior to those currently
offered by the Company. The Company expects its competitors to continue to
improve the performance of their current products and to introduce new products
or new technologies that provide improved cost of ownership and performance
characteristics. New product introductions by competitors could cause a decline
in sales or loss of market acceptance of the Company's existing products.
Moreover, increased competitive pressure could lead to intensified price based
competition, which could materially adversely affect the Company's business,
financial condition and results of operations.

     The Company derives a significant portion of its total revenue from
customers outside the United States. International sales are subject to
significant risks, including unexpected changes in legal and regulatory
requirements and policy changes affecting the Company's markets, changes in
tariffs, exchange rates and other barriers, political and economic instability,
difficulties in accounts receivable collection, difficulties in managing
distributors and representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing
international operations, difficulties in protecting the Company's intellectual
property and potentially adverse tax consequences.

     The Company's semiconductor test systems operating segment generates a
significant portion of its revenue from customers operating in South Asian
countries and Taiwan. Although the economies of South Asian countries and Taiwan
have stabilized to some degree since mid fiscal 1998, if these economies
deteriorate the negative economic developments would increase the likelihood of
either a direct or indirect adverse impact on the Company's future operating
results.

     The Company's quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide
variety of factors that could materially adversely affect revenues and
profitability, including: competitive pressures on selling prices; the timing
and cancellation of customer orders; changes in product mix; the Company's
ability to introduce new products and technologies on a timely basis;
introduction of products and technologies by the Company's competitors; market
acceptance of the Company's and its competitors' products; fulfilling backlog on
a timely basis; reliance on sole source suppliers; potential retrofit costs; the
level of orders received which can be shipped in a quarter; and the timing of
investments in engineering and development. As a result of the foregoing and
other factors, the Company may experience material fluctuations in future
operating results on a quarterly or annual basis which could materially and
adversely affect its business, financial condition, operating results and stock
price.

YEAR 2000

     As of the Company's fiscal month ended February 27, 2000 the Company has
not experienced any material negative impact related to the Year 2000 problem in
any of its business-critical functions. Based upon


our ability to deliver our products and services without interruption and
information received from vendors and service providers, the Company has no
reason to believe that there will be any material adverse impact on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations relating to any Year 2000
problem. However, if the information received from vendors and service providers
is not accurate or happens to change, then there could be an unforeseen material
adverse impact on the Company's results of operations or financial condition.
The Company will continue to monitor its systems and operations until it is
reasonably assured that no significant business interruptions will occur as a
result of the Year 2000 problem.

     The aggregate costs incurred by the Company in addressing its Year 2000
problem were within the $5.0 million estimate previously reported by the
Company.



ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Directors and Shareholders of
Teradyne, Inc.:

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 14(a)(1) on page 34 present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Teradyne, Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the
index appearing under Item 14(a)(2) on page 34 presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management;
our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

                                          PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
January 14, 2000



                                 TERADYNE, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1999 AND 1998



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A.  THE COMPANY

     Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") designs, manufactures, markets, and services
test systems and related software, and backplanes and associated connectors. The
Company has five principal products; semiconductor test systems, backplane
connection systems, circuit-board test systems, telecommunications test systems,
and software test systems.

     Semiconductor test systems are used by electronic component manufacturers
in the design and testing of their products. Backplane connection systems are
used principally for the computer, communications, and military/aerospace
industries. A backplane is an assembly into which printed circuit boards are
inserted that provides for the interconnection of electrical signals between the
circuit boards and the other elements of the system. Circuit-board test systems
are used by electronic equipment manufacturers for the design and testing of
circuit boards and other assemblies. Telecommunication test systems are used by
telephone operating companies for the testing and maintenance of their
subscriber telephone lines and related equipment. Software test systems are used
by a number of industries to test communications networks, computerized
telecommunication systems, and client/server applications.

B.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Basis of Presentation

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions are
eliminated. Certain prior years' amounts were reclassified to conform to the
current year presentation.

  Preparation of Financial Statements

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reported periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

  Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

     In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") issued
Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 ("SAB 101"), "Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements." SAB 101 summarizes the SEC's view in applying generally accepted
accounting principles to selected revenue recognition issues. The application of
the guidance in SAB 101 will be required in the Company's fiscal year 2000. The
effects of applying this guidance will be reported as a cumulative effect
adjustment resulting from a change in accounting principle. The Company has not
completed its evaluation of SAB 101 and is therefore unable to determine its
impact.

  Inventories

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or
market (net realizable value). Inventories include materials, labor, and
manufacturing overhead costs.

  Property, Plant, and Equipment

     Property, plant, and equipment are stated at cost. Leasehold improvements
and major renewals are capitalized and included in property, plant, and
equipment accounts while expenditures for maintenance and repairs and minor
renewals are charged to expense. When assets are retired, the assets and related
allowances for depreciation and amortization are removed from the accounts and
any resulting gain or loss is reflected in operations.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

B.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)
     The Company provides for depreciation of its assets principally on the
straight-line method with the cost of the assets being charged to expense over
their useful lives as follows: buildings and improvements -- 5 to 40 years; and
machinery and equipment -- 2 to 10 years.

  Revenue Recognition

     Product revenue is recognized upon shipment. The Company's products are
generally subject to warranty, and the Company provides for such estimated costs
when product revenue is recognized. The Company recognizes service revenue as
the services are provided or ratably over the period of the related contract, as
applicable. The Company unbundles service revenue from product sales and
maintenance services from software license fees based upon amounts charged when
such elements are separately sold. For certain contracts eligible under American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position No.
81-1, revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion accounting method
based upon an efforts-expended method. In all cases, changes to total estimated
costs and anticipated losses, if any, are recognized in the period in which
determined.

  Engineering and Development Costs

     The Company's products are highly technical in nature and require a large
and continuing engineering and development effort. All engineering and
development costs are expensed as incurred.

  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

     The Company reviews long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or
changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the
assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are
no longer appropriate. Each impairment test is based on a comparison of the
undiscounted cash flows to the recorded value of the asset. If an impairment is
indicated, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value on a discounted
cash flow basis.

  Income Taxes

     Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences
between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are
measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the
differences are expected to reverse. The measurement of deferred tax assets is
reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon weighted available evidence, it
is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.

     U.S. Federal taxes are provided for on the retained earnings of non-U.S.
sales and service subsidiaries whose earnings are expected to be remitted to the
U.S.. U.S. Federal taxes are not provided for on the earnings of a non-U.S.
manufacturing subsidiary which are expected to be reinvested indefinitely in
operations outside the U.S.

  Translation of Non U.S. Currencies

     Assets and liabilities of non U.S. subsidiaries, which are denominated in
currencies other than the U.S. dollar, are remeasured into U.S. dollars at rates
of exchange in effect at the end of the fiscal year except nonmonetary assets
and liabilities which are remeasured using historical exchange rates. Revenue
and expense amounts are remeasured using an average of exchange rates in effect
during the year, except those amounts related to nonmonetary assets and
liabilities, which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Net realized and
unrealized gains and losses resulting from currency remeasurement are included
in operations.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

B.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)
  Net Income per Common Share

     Basic net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by
the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted net income per common share is calculated by dividing net income by the
sum of the weighted average number of common shares plus additional common
shares that would have been outstanding if potential dilutive common shares had
been issued for granted stock option and stock purchase rights.

  Other Comprehensive Income

     Comprehensive income does not materially differ from net income, for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

C.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

  Cash Equivalents

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less at the date of acquisition to be cash
equivalents.

  Marketable Securities

     The Company classifies investments in marketable securities as trading,
available-for-sale or held-to-maturity at the time of purchase and periodically
re-evaluates such classification. There were no securities classified as trading
at December 31, 1999, and no securities classified as trading or
held-to-maturity at December 31, 1998. Securities are classified as
held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold
the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at cost with
corresponding premiums or discounts amortized over the life of the investment to
interest income. Securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at
fair value, unless the difference between the fair value and amortized cost is
immaterial in which case they are carried at amortized cost. Unrealized gains or
losses on available-for-sale securities are not material and therefore have not
been recorded. Realized gains and losses and declines in value judged to be
other-than-temporary on available-for-sale securities are included in interest
income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification
method.

     The fair market value of cash equivalents and short-term and long-term
investments in marketable securities is substantially equal to the carrying
value and represents the quoted market prices at the balance


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

C.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
sheet dates. The short-term investments mature in less than one year. Long-term
investments have maturities of one to ten years. At December 31, 1999 and 1998
these investments are reported as follows (in thousands):



  Other

     For all other balance sheet financial instruments, the carrying amount
approximates fair value.

  Off-Balance Sheet Risk

     The Company regularly enters into forward contracts in European and
Japanese currencies to hedge its non U.S. currency net monetary position and
firm commitments. The Company's firm commitments consist of certain orders
received in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Forward currency contracts
generally have maturities of less than one year. These contracts are used to
reduce the Company's risk associated with exchange rate movements, as gains and
losses on these contracts are intended to offset exchange losses and gains on
underlying exposures. The Company does not engage in currency speculation. Gains
or losses associated with the termination of the underlying contract for which a
firm commitment no longer exists are immediately included in selling and
administrative expenses.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had the following forward currency
contracts to buy U.S. dollars for non U.S. currencies with the following
notional amounts totaling $62.4 million; $25.8 million Japanese yen, $21.7 Euro,
$13.7 million British pound sterling, and $1.2 million Swedish Krona. At
December 31, 1998 the face amount of outstanding forward currency contracts to
buy and sell U.S. dollars for non U.S. currencies was $36.4 million and $10.3
million, respectively.

     The fair value of these contracts as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,
determined by applying year-end currency exchange rates to the notional contract
amounts, represented a net unrealized gain of $1.0 million in 1999 and a net
unrealized loss of $0.2 million in 1998. The Company's policy is to defer gains
and losses on these contracts until the corresponding losses and gains are
recognized on the items being hedged. Both the contract gains and losses and the
gains and losses on the items being hedged are included in selling and
administrative expenses.

  Concentration of Credit Risk

     Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash investments, forward
currency contracts, and accounts receivable. The Company maintains cash
investments primarily in U.S. Treasury and government agency securities and
corporate debt securities,


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

C.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
rated AA or higher, which have minimal credit risk. The Company places forward
currency contracts with high credit-quality financial institutions in order to
minimize credit risk exposure. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to
accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of geographically
dispersed customers.

D.  DEBT

     Long-term debt at December 31, 1999 and 1998 consisted of the following (in
thousands):



     The total maturities of long-term debt for the succeeding five years and
thereafter are: 2000 -- $4.7 million; 2001 -- $0.2 million; 2002 -- $0.3
million; 2003 -- $0.3 million; 2004 -- $0.3 million and $7.8 million thereafter.

  Revolving Credit Agreement

     The Company's available revolving credit line, in effect through January
31, 2001, is $120.0 million. At expiration of the revolver, any amounts
outstanding are converted into a two year term note. As of December 31, 1999, no
amounts were outstanding under this agreement. The terms of this line of credit
include restrictive covenants regarding working capital, tangible net worth, and
leverage. Interest rates on borrowings are either at the stated prime rate,
based upon Eurocurrency, or certificate of deposit interest rates. Pursuant to
the terms of the credit agreement, the Company may incur additional indebtedness
of up to $30.0 million outside the agreement provided that the liabilities of
the Company, exclusive of deferred income taxes and subordinated debt, shall not
exceed 100% of the Company's tangible net worth.

  Mortgage Notes Payable

     In 1983, the Company received a loan of $4.5 million from the Boston
Redevelopment Authority in the form of a 3% mortgage loan maturing March 31,
2013. This loan is collateralized by a mortgage on the Company's property at 321
Harrison Avenue which may, at the Company's option, become subordinated to
another mortgage up to a maximum of $5.0 million. Interest for the first 4 1/2
years of the note was capitalized up to a principal amount of $5.0 million.
Since September 30, 1987, the Company has been making semi-annual interest
payments.

     In conjunction with the purchase of operating facilities in San Jose, the
Company received a $5.5 million mortgage loan which matures on August 31, 2000.
The loan is collateralized by a mortgage on the San Jose facilities. The loan
bears interest at 8.1% per annum and is payable in 59 consecutive monthly
installments of $0.05 million with a $4.6 million balloon payment due at
maturity. The terms of this mortgage note payable include principal prepayment
penalty clauses.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

D.  DEBT -- (CONTINUED)
  Short-term Borrowings

     The weighted average interest rates on short-term borrowings outstanding as
of December 31, 1999 and 1998 was 1.8% and 2.1%, respectively.

E.  COMMITMENTS

     Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997 was
$18.8 million, $17.7 million, and $15.1 million, respectively. Minimum annual
rentals under all noncancellable leases are: 2000 -- $11.6 million; 2001 -- $8.9
million; 2002 -- $6.2 million; 2003 -- $4.2 million; 2004 -- $1.7 million; and
$6.5 million thereafter, totaling $39.1 million.

F.  NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE

     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net
income per common share (in thousands, except per share amounts):



     Options to purchase 0.1 million shares of common stock in 1999, 4.0 million
shares in 1998, and 0.8 million shares in 1997 were outstanding during the years
then ended, but were not included in the year to date calculation of diluted net
income per share because the options' exercise price was greater than the
average market price of the common shares during those periods.

G.  RETIREMENT PLANS

     The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all
domestic employees and employees of certain non U.S. subsidiaries. Benefits
under these plans are based on the employees' years of service and compensation.
The Company's funding policy is to make contributions to the plans in accordance
with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible.
The assets of these plans consist primarily of equity and fixed income
securities. In addition, the Company has an unfunded supplemental defined
benefit plan in the United States to provide retirement benefits in excess of
levels allowed by the Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).

     On December 31, 1999, the U.S. defined benefit pension plan (the "U.S.
plan") was amended to update all participating employees accrued benefit to
reflect their average pay over the last five years.

     During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company offered all eligible
domestic employees participating in the U.S. plan a choice; to continue to have
benefits grow in the U.S. plan and continue to be eligible for the current
Savings plan match described in "Note: K Savings Plan" or to stop growing
benefits in the U.S plan


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

G.  RETIREMENT PLANS -- (CONTINUED)
and be eligible for an increased match in the Savings plan. The accrued benefit
of those employees who selected the enhanced Savings plan match was frozen on
January 1, 2000 resulting in an insignificant curtailment gain.

     The expense of these defined benefit pension plans and the December 31
balances of plan assets and obligations are shown below (in thousands):








                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

G.  RETIREMENT PLANS -- (CONTINUED)



     The following table provides amounts recognized in the statement of
financial position as of December 31, of both years (in thousands):



     There is no additional minimum pension liability to be recognized as of
December 31, 1999 and 1998. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated
benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with
accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $19.9 million,
$13.4 million and $3.7 million, respectively, as of December 31, 1999 and $17.6
million, $11.5 million and $2.5 million, respectively, as of December 31, 1998.

H.  COMMON STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM

     The Company's Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of 20.0
million shares of the Company's stock on the open market. In 1999, the Company
repurchased 5.6 million shares at a cost of $207.8 million, increasing the
cumulative shares purchased under this program through 1999 to 16.2 million
shares at an aggregate cost of $393.3 million. The Company records treasury
stock at cost.

I.  COMMON STOCK SPLIT

     On July 30, 1999 the Company's Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one
stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend distributed on August
31, 1999 to shareholders of record as of August 17, 1999. As a result of the
stock split, the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect an
increase in the number of outstanding shares of common stock and the transfer of
the par value of these additional shares from paid-in capital. All share and per
share amounts have been restated to reflect the retroactive effect of the stock
split, except for the capitalization of the Company.

J.  STOCK BASED COMPENSATION

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had both stock option plans and stock
purchase plans. The Company previously adopted SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" (Statement 123), and as permitted by this standard,
will continue to apply Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion 25 and related
interpretations in accounting for its plans. The Company is required to disclose
pro forma net income and net income per common share amounts had compensation
cost for the Company's stock based compensation plans been determined based on
the fair value at the grant dates for awards under those plans. Had compensation
expense for the stock based compensation plans been consistent with the method
of Statement 123, amounts reported for 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively would
have been; net income of $153.6 million, $ 77.8 million and $115.4 million; net
income per common share -- basic of $0.90; $0.46 and $0.69; and net income per
common share -- diluted of $0.86, $0.45 and $0.67. The impact to reported net
income and per common share amounts of this pro forma disclosure are not
comparable among 1999, 1998,

                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

J.  STOCK BASED COMPENSATION -- (CONTINUED)
and 1997 as Statement 123 did not apply to awards prior to 1995. The amounts of
this pro forma disclosure are also not indicative of the impact on net income
for future years.

  Stock Option Plans

     Under its stock option plans, all of which are fixed, the Company granted
options to directors, officers, certain employees, and other individuals
entitling them to purchase common stock at 100% of market value at the date of
grant. Stock options granted generally have a maximum term of five years and
vest over four years.

     Stock option plan activity for the years 1999, 1998, and 1997 follows (in
thousands):



     Weighted average option exercise price information for the years 1999, 1998
and 1997 follows:



     Significant option groups outstanding at December 31, 1999 and related
weighted average price and life information follows (options in thousands):



     On August 20, 1998, the Stock Option Committee of the Board of Directors
(the "Option Committee") approved a reduction, effective August 27, 1998, in the
exercise price of certain outstanding stock options held by officers and
employees of the Company. Action was taken to attempt to restore the long-term
incentive feature of employee stock options. The Option Committee believed that
at their original exercise prices, the disparity between the exercise price of
these options and recent market prices for the Company's Common

                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

J.  STOCK BASED COMPENSATION -- (CONTINUED)
Stock did not provide meaningful long-term incentive to officers and employees
holding these options to perform to their maximum potential and work toward the
success of the Company. In connection with this action the Company canceled
options to purchase 6.4 million shares. The canceled options were originally
granted between May 15, 1997 and July 1, 1998 at exercise prices ranging from
$18.25 to $20.94 per share. New options to purchase 6.4 million shares at $9.59
were then granted. All vesting under the canceled options was lost and new
vesting periods were started. The effect of this option repricing on the above
pro forma disclosures is considered, under Statement 123, a modification of the
terms of the outstanding options. Accordingly, the 1999 and 1998 pro forma
disclosures include compensation cost for the incremental fair value, under
Statement 123, resulting from such modification.

     The weighted average fair value at date of grant for options granted during
1999, 1998 and 1997 was $16.21, $5.35 and $8.06 per option, respectively. The
fair value of options at date of grant was estimated using the Black-Scholes
model with the following weighted average assumptions:



  Employee Stock Purchase Plans

     The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase plan. Under this plan, eligible
employees may purchase shares of common stock through payroll deductions of up
to 10% of their compensation. The price paid for the common stock is equal to
85% of the lower of the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the
first business day in January (July for new hires) or the last business day of
December. In January 2000, the Company issued 1.0 million shares of common stock
to employees who participated in the plan during 1999 at a weighted-average
price of $17.96 per share. Currently, there are 2.2 million shares reserved for
issuance.

     The weighted-average fair value of purchase rights granted in 1999, 1998
and 1997 was $8.18, $6.51 and $3.85, respectively. The fair value of the
employees' purchase rights was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the
following assumptions for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively; dividend yield of
0.0% for all years; an expected life of 1 year for all years; expected
volatility of 58.4%, 58.8% and 45.5%; and risk-free interest rates of 4.5%, 5.5%
and 5.6%.

K.  SAVINGS PLANS

     The Company sponsors a Savings Plan covering substantially all U.S.
employees. Under this plan, employees may contribute up to 12% of their
compensation (subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations). The Company
annually matches employee contributions up to 6% of such compensation at rates
ranging from 50% to 100%. The Company's contributions vest after two years,
although contributions for those employees with five years of service vest
immediately. The Company has also established a Supplemental Savings Plan to
provide savings benefits in excess of those allowed by ERISA. The provisions of
this plan are the same as the Savings Plan. Under the Company's savings plans,
amounts charged to operations were $9.8 million in 1999 and $9.3 million in 1998
and 1997.

     Beginning in January 2000, domestic employees who elected to discontinue
participation in the Company's retirement plan see "Note: G Retirement Plans"
and all new domestic employees are eligible for an increased minimum Company
match of 100% on contributions up to 5%.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

L.  STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

     The Company's Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan on March
14, 1990, under which a dividend of one Common Stock Purchase Right was
distributed for each outstanding share of Common Stock. The Plan entitles Stock
Purchase Right holders to purchase shares of the Company's common stock for $10
per share subject to adjustment (the "Purchase Price") in certain events, such
as a tender offer to acquire 30% or more of the Company's outstanding shares.
Under some circumstances, such as a determination by continuing Directors, that
an acquiring party's interests are adverse to those of the Company, the Plan
entitles such holders (other than an acquiring party or adverse party) to
purchase Common Stock (or other securities or consideration owned by the
Company) having a value equal to two times the Purchase Price of the right for
the Purchase Price. The Rights expired on March 26, 2000.

M.  INCOME TAXES

     The components of income before income taxes and the provision for income
taxes as shown in the consolidated statements of income are as follows (in
thousands)




                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

M.  INCOME TAXES -- (CONTINUED)
     Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets (liabilities)
as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows (in thousands):



     At December 31, 1999 the Company has U.S. Federal operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $1.0 million that expire in the years 2000
through 2002. The Company has approximately $1.6 million of U.S. business tax
credit carryforwards that expire in the years 2007 through 2011. In addition,
the Company has $1.8 in research and experimentation tax credits eligible to be
realized beginning in October 2000. These losses and credits are limited in
their use by "change in ownership" rules as defined in the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986.

     A reconciliation of the effective tax rate for the years 1999, 1998, and
1997 follows:



     U.S. federal taxes have not been provided for approximately $30.0 million
of cumulative undistributed earnings of a non-U.S. manufacturing subsidiary. The
Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in operations outside
the US.


                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

N.  OPERATING SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

     The Company has five principal operating segments which are the design,
manufacturing and marketing of semiconductor test systems, backplane connection
systems, circuit-board test systems, telecommunication test systems, and
software test systems. These operating segments were determined based upon the
nature of the products and services offered. The Company has three reportable
segments; semiconductor test systems segment, backplane connection systems
segment, and other test systems segment. The other test systems segment is
comprised of circuit-board test systems, telecommunication test systems, and
software test systems.

     The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, of which the
primary financial measure is business segment income before taxes. The
accounting policies of the business segments are the same as those described in
"Note B: Accounting Policies". Intersegment sales are accounted for at fair
value as if sales were to third parties. During 1999, principally all of the
Company's operating segments reported sales to Motorola Inc. accounting for a
total of 11% of consolidated net sales. During 1998 and 1997 no individual
customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales.




                                 TERADYNE, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

N.  OPERATING SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)



- ---------------
(1) Income before taxes of the principal businesses exclude the effects of
    employee profit sharing, management incentive compensation, other
    unallocated expenses, net interest income, and certain special charges. In
    1997 the Company recorded a special charge of $5.0 million for acquired
    in-process technology.

(2) Total business assets are directly attributable to each business. Corporate
    assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities,
    unallocated fixed assets of support divisions and common facilities and
    certain other assets.

(3) Corporate property additions and depreciation and amortization expense
    include items attributable to the unallocated fixed assets of support
    divisions and common facilities.

     Information as to the Company's sales in different geographical areas is as
follows (in thousands):



- ---------------
(1) Sales are attributable to geographic areas based on location of customer
    site.

     Because a substantial portion of the Company's sales are derived from the
sales of product manufactured in the United States, long-lived assets located
outside the United States are less than 10% of total assets.



                           SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                                  (UNAUDITED)

     The following sets forth certain unaudited consolidated quarterly
statements of operations data for each of the Company's last eight quarters. In
management's opinion, this quarterly information reflects all adjustments,
consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair
presentation for the periods presented. Such quarterly results are not
necessarily indicative of future results of operations and should be read in
conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company
and the notes thereto included elsewhere herein.





- ---------------
* Note: Previously published quarterly financial data have been restated to give
  effect to the two-for-one stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock
  dividend distributed on August 31, 1999.



ITEM 9:  CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     Certain information relating to directors and executive officers of the
Company, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management, and certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference herein from the Company's definitive proxy statement
in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 25,
2000, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this
purpose, the Management Compensation and Development Committee Report and
Performance Graph included in such proxy statement are specifically not
incorporated herein. (Also see "Item 1 -- Executive Officers of the Company"
elsewhere in this report.)

ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     Certain information relating to directors and executive officers of the
Company, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management, and certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference herein from the Company's definitive proxy statement
in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 25,
2000, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this
purpose, the Management Compensation and Development Committee Report and
Performance Graph included in such proxy statement are specifically not
incorporated herein.

ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     Certain information relating to directors and executive officers of the
Company, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management, and certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference herein from the Company's definitive proxy statement
in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 25,
2000, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this
purpose, the Management Compensation and Development Committee Report and
Performance Graph included in such proxy statement are specifically not
incorporated herein.

ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     Certain information relating to directors and executive officers of the
Company, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management, and certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference herein from the Company's definitive proxy statement
in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 25,
2000, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this
purpose, the Management Compensation and Development Committee Report and
Performance Graph included in such proxy statement are specifically not
incorporated herein.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(A) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The following consolidated financial statements are included in Item 8:

        Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998
        Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and
        Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
        December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997
        Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998,
and 1997

(a) 2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

     The following consolidated financial statement schedule is included in Item
14(d):

     Schedule II -- Valuation and qualifying Accounts

     Schedules other than those listed above have been omitted since they are
either not required or information is otherwise included.

(A) 3.  LISTING OF EXHIBITS

     The Exhibits which are filed with this report or which are incorporated by
reference herein are set forth in the Exhibit Index.

(B) REPORT ON FORM 8-K

     There have been no Form 8-K filings during the three months ended December
31, 1999.



ITEM 14(d) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                 TERADYNE, INC.

                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS





                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

     The following designated exhibits are, as indicated below, either filed
herewith or have heretofore been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and are referred to and incorporated by reference to such filings.









                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized this 24th day of March,
2000.

                                          TERADYNE, INC.

                                          By:    /s/ MICHAEL A. BRADLEY
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                    MICHAEL A. BRADLEY,
                                             VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL
                                                           OFFICER

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








