
10-K
TERADYNE, INC.



 
=============================================================================== 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                             ---------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
 
     [X]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
          THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
                                       OR
 
     [ ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
          THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-6462
 
                             ---------------------
 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                MASSACHUSETTS                                   04-2272148
       (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                       (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
        INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                    IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)

  321 HARRISON AVENUE, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS                      02118
   (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)                     (ZIP CODE)
 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (617) 482-2700
 
                             ---------------------
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     TITLE OF EACH CLASS               NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
Common Stock, par value $0.125                   New York Stock Exchange
 
                             ---------------------
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [ X ]  No [   ]
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or in any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [   ]
     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of February 16, 1996 was $1.78 billion based upon the composite
closing price of the registrant's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on
that date.
     The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's only class of Common
Stock as of February 16, 1996 was 83,383,894 shares.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Portions of the registrant's proxy statement in connection with its 1996
annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.
================================================================================

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                                     PART I
 
  ITEM 1:  BUSINESS
 
     Teradyne, Inc. is a manufacturer of electronic test systems and backplane
connection systems used in the electronics and telecommunications industries.
For financial information concerning these two industry segments, see "Note O:
Industry Segment and Geographic Information" in Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the term "Company" as used
herein includes Teradyne, Inc. and all its subsidiaries.
 
     On December 1, 1995, the Company completed its acquisition of Megatest
Corporation ("Megatest"), by means of a merger of M Merger Corp., a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company, with and into Megatest. As a result of the merger,
Megatest became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Megatest, whose
headquarters are in San Jose, California, designs, manufactures, markets, and
services electronic test systems for the integrated circuit industry. The
Megatest combination has been accounted for as a pooling of interests. All
financial information contained in this report has been restated to reflect the
pooling of interests with Megatest and to give effect to the two-for-one stock
split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend distributed August 29, 1995.
For further information concerning the merger, see "Note C: Merger -- Pooling of
Interests" in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K which are not historical
facts, so-called "forward looking statements," are made pursuant to the safe
harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Investors are cautioned that all forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties, including those detailed in the Company's filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. See also "Item 7. Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Certain Factors
That May Affect Future Results."
 
ELECTRONIC TEST SYSTEMS
 
     The Company designs, manufactures, markets, and services electronic test
systems and related software used by component manufacturers in the design and
testing of their products and by electronic equipment manufacturers for the
incoming inspection of components and for the design and testing of circuit
boards and other assemblies. Manufacturers use such systems and software to
increase product performance, to improve product quality, to shorten time to
market, to enhance manufacturability, to conserve labor costs, and to increase
production yields. The Company's electronic systems are also used by telephone
operating companies for the testing and maintenance of their subscriber
telephone lines and related equipment.
 
     Electronic test systems produced by the Company include: (i) test systems
for a wide variety of semiconductors, including digital, analog, and mixed
signal integrated circuits ("semiconductor test systems"), (ii) test systems for
circuit boards and other assemblies ("circuit-board test systems"), and (iii)
test systems for telephone lines and networks ("telecommunications test
systems"). The Company's test systems are all controlled by computers, and
programming and operating software is supplied both as an integral part of the
product and as a separately priced enhancement. Semiconductor test systems
accounted for 69% of consolidated net sales in 1995 and 62% in 1994 and 1993.
Circuit-board test systems accounted for 11% of consolidated net sales in 1995,
15% in 1994, and 17% in 1993. Telecommunications test systems accounted for 7%
of consolidated net sales in 1995, 6% in 1994, and 7% in 1993.
 
     The Company's systems are extremely complex and require extensive support
both by the customer and by the Company. Prices for the Company's systems range
from less than $100,000 to $5 million or more.
 

 
BACKPLANE CONNECTION SYSTEMS
 
     The Company also manufactures backplane connection systems, principally for
the computer, telecommunications, and military/aerospace industries. A backplane
is a panel that supports the circuit boards in an electronic assembly and
carries the wiring that connects the boards to each other and to other elements
of a system. The Company produces both printed circuit and metal backplanes,
along with mating circuit-board connectors. Backplanes are custom-configured to
meet specific customer requirements. The Company has begun to extend the
manufacture of backplane connection systems to include the manufacture of fully
integrated electronic assemblies that incorporate backplane, card cage, cabling,
and related design and production services. Backplane connection systems
accounted for 13% of consolidated net sales in 1995, 17% in 1994, and 14% in
1993.
 
                              MARKETING AND SALES
 
MARKETS
 
     The Company sells its products across most sectors of the electronics
industry and to companies in other industries that use electronic devices in
high volume. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of net sales in 1995.
In 1995, the Company's four largest customers accounted for 31% of net sales.
 
     Direct sales to United States government agencies accounted for less than
2% of net sales in 1995, less than 1% in 1994 and approximately 2% of net sales
in 1993. Sales are also made within each of the Company's segments to customers
who are government contractors. Approximately 17% of backplane connection
systems sales and less than 10% of electronic test systems sales fell into this
category during 1995.
 
     The Company's international customers are located primarily in Europe, the
Asia Pacific region, and Japan. The Company sells in these areas both directly
and through foreign sales subsidiaries. Substantially all of the Company's
manufacturing activities are conducted in the United States.
 
     Domestic export sales and foreign jurisdictional sales (which amounted to
less than 10% of total net sales in all periods presented) to international
customers accounted for 52% of net sales in 1995, 46% in 1994, and 41% in 1993.
Identifiable assets of the Company's foreign subsidiaries, consisting
principally of operating assets used in support of domestic export sales,
approximated $125.2 million at December 31, 1995, $94.5 million at December 31,
1994, and $65.0 million at December 31, 1993. Of these identifiable assets at
December 31, 1995, $79.9 million were in Europe, $38.6 million were in Japan,
and $6.7 million were in the Asia Pacific region.
 
     The Company is subject to the inherent risks involved in international
trade, such as political and economic instability, restrictive trade policies,
controls on funds transfer, foreign currency fluctuations, difficulties in
managing distributors, potentially adverse tax consequences, and the possibility
of difficulty in accounts receivable collection. The Company attempts to reduce
the effects of currency fluctuations by hedging part of its exposed position and
by conducting some of its foreign transactions in U.S. dollars or dollar
equivalents.
 
DISTRIBUTION
 
     The Company sells its products primarily through a direct sales force. The
Company has sales and service offices throughout North America, Europe, the Asia
Pacific region, and Japan.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company faces substantial competition throughout the world, primarily
from electronic test systems manufacturers located in the United States, Europe,
and Japan, as well as several of the Company's customers. Some of these
competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources with which
to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their
products. New product introductions by the Company's competitors could cause a
decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of existing products.
 

 
                                    BACKLOG
 
     On December 31, 1995, the Company's backlog of unfilled orders for
electronic test systems and backplane connection systems was approximately
$607.1 million and $52.2 million, respectively, compared with $352.0 million and
$66.3 million, respectively, on December 31, 1994. Of the backlog at December
31, 1995, approximately 92% of the electronic test systems backlog and
approximately 94% of the backplane connection systems backlog are expected to be
delivered in 1996. The electronic test systems backlog at December 31, 1995
includes $40.2 million of United States government orders for M900 VXI Digital
Test subsystems for the U.S. Navy's Consolidated Automated Support System (CASS)
which are unfunded. The unfunded orders are for shipments scheduled to be
delivered in 1997 and beyond. The Company's past experience indicates that a
portion of orders included in the backlog may be canceled. There are no seasonal
or unusual factors related to the backlog.
 
                                 RAW MATERIALS
 
     The Company's products require a wide variety of electronic and mechanical
components. In the past, the Company has experienced occasional delays in
obtaining timely delivery of certain items. Additionally, the Company could
experience a temporary adverse impact if any of its sole source suppliers ceased
to deliver products. Any prolonged inability of the Company to obtain adequate
yields or deliveries, or any other circumstances that would require the Company
to seek alternative sources of supply could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations.
 
                              PATENTS AND LICENSES
 
     The development of products by the Company, both hardware and software, is
largely based on proprietary information. The Company protects its rights in
proprietary information through various methods such as copyrights, trademarks,
patents and patent applications, software license agreements, and employee
agreements. The Company relies on certain intellectual property protections to
preserve its intellectual property rights. Any invalidation of the Company's
intellectual property rights or lengthy and expensive defense of those rights
could have a material adverse affect on the Company.
 
                                   EMPLOYEES
 
     As of December 31, 1995, the Company employed approximately 5,200 persons.
Since the inception of the Company's business, there have been no work stoppages
or other labor disturbances. The Company has no collective bargaining contracts.
 
                     ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
 
     The highly technical nature of the Company's products requires a large and
continuing engineering and development effort. Engineering and development
expenditures for new and improved products were approximately $123.5 million in
1995, $86.6 million in 1994, and $74.6 million in 1993. These expenditures
amounted to approximately 10% of net sales in 1995, 11% in 1994, and 12% in
1993.
 
                             ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS
 
     The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and
regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly from manufacturing
plant wastes and emissions. These include laws such as the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, the Superfund
Amendment and Reauthorization Act of 1986, the Occupational Safety and Health
Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act of 1976, and the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984. In
the opinion of management, the costs associated with complying with these laws
and regulations has not had and is currently not expected to have a material
adverse effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position
of the Company.
 

 

 

 
ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES



 
     The Company is subleasing an additional 85,000 square feet of space to a
third party in Walnut Creek, California, through the expiration of the lease in
June 1996.
 
ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Company is not a party to any litigation that, in the opinion of
management, could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on
the Company's financial position.
 
ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     Not Applicable.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS
 

 
     The number of record holders of the Company's Common Stock at February 16,
1996 was 3,389.
 
     The Company has never paid cash dividends because it has been its policy to
use earnings to finance expansion and growth. While payment of future cash
dividends will rest within the discretion of the Board of Directors and will
depend, among other things, upon the Company's earnings, capital requirements,
and financial condition. The Company presently expects to retain all of its
earnings for use in the business.
 

 

 
ITEM 7:  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS


 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS:
 
1995 compared to 1994
 
     Sales advanced 53% in 1995 to $1.2 billion. Each of the major product lines
of the Company -- semiconductor test systems, circuit-board test systems,
telecommunications test systems, and backplane connection systems contributed to
the increase in sales. Sales of semiconductor test systems grew 70% as
semiconductor manufacturers continued to add capacity in response to rising
demand for their products. This capacity expansion was evidenced by a number of
new semiconductor manufacturing plants coming on line. Telecommunications test
systems sales increased 84% primarily from the growing installation of
telephone-line test equipment at Deutsche Telekom in Germany. Sales of backplane
connection systems increased 18% as a result of greater penetration into the
Company's high technology commercial customer base. Circuit-
 

 
board test systems sales increased 13%. As a result of the increase in sales,
income from continuing operations more than doubled in 1995, increasing $82.9
million to $159.3 million.
 
     Incoming orders grew faster than sales in 1995, increasing 59% to $1.4
billion. The increase in orders, like the increase in sales, was primarily due
to increases in semiconductor test systems orders, which increased 73%.
Additionally, circuit-board test systems orders increased by 110% due in large
part to U.S. government contracts to supply electronic test equipment for the
B-2 Stealth Bomber and for the Navy's CASS program. Orders for backplane
connection systems and telecommunications test systems declined 11% and 5%,
respectively. As a result of the overall increase in orders, the Company's
backlog grew 58% in 1995, finishing the year at $659.3 million.
 
     Cost of sales, as a percentage of sales, decreased from 56% in 1994 to 54%
in 1995. The improvement was primarily the result of increased utilization of
the fixed and semi-variable components of the Company's overhead structure. In
addition, there was a favorable change in mix as sales of backplane connection
systems, whose product margins are generally lower than those of electronic test
systems, were lower as a percentage of total Company sales.
 
     Engineering and development expenses, as a percentage of sales, declined 1%
from 11% in 1994 to 10% in 1995, as these expenses did not increase at the same
rate as sales. The dollar amount of these expenses grew $36.9 million in 1995 as
a result of increased investment in new product development of semiconductor
test systems. Selling and administrative expenses decreased to 15% of sales in
1995 compared with 19% of sales in 1994, as the dollar volume of these expenses
grew by 19% while sales increased 53%.
 
     In 1995, the Company incurred merger expenses of $5.6 million consisting
primarily of professional fees related to its merger with Megatest.
 
     Interest income increased 82% in 1995 to $14.2 million due to an increase
in the Company's average invested balances and higher interest rates. Interest
expense increased from $1.8 million in 1994 to $3.0 million in 1995 as a result
of increased borrowing at Megatest prior to the merger.
 
     The Company's effective tax rate was 36% in 1995 compared with 33% in 1994.
The Company utilized certain tax credit and net loss carryforward amounts in
1994 to operate below the United States statutory rate of 35%. In 1995, the
effective rate increased as the tax credit and loss carryforwards were no longer
available and certain merger expenses were nondeductible for income tax
purposes. The Company expects its tax rate to approximate the statutory rate of
35% in 1996.
 
1994 Compared to 1993
 
     Sales increased 23% in 1994, to $777.7 million. Sales increased in each of
the Company's major product groups. The increase in sales was primarily due to a
23% increase in sales of semiconductor test systems and to a 49% increase in
sales of backplane connection systems. Sales of semiconductor test systems
increased as semiconductor manufacturers added capacity to meet rising demand
for their products, while sales of backplane connection systems increased due to
growth in demand for the high technology products of the Company's commercial
customer base. Sales of circuit-board test systems and telecommunications test
systems increased 8% and 11%, respectively, in 1994 compared to 1993. Income
from continuing operations increased by $35.2 million from 1993 to 1994 on a
sales increase of $144.6 million.
 
     Incoming orders grew faster than sales in 1994, increasing 29% to $901.0
million. The increase in orders, like the increase in sales, was primarily due
to increases in semiconductor test systems and backplane connection systems.
Orders for circuit-board test systems and telecommunications test systems
declined in 1994. As a result of the overall increase in orders, the Company's
backlog grew during 1994 to $418.3 million.
 
     Cost of sales, as a percentage of sales, decreased from 57% of sales in
1993 to 56% in 1994. The improvement was a result of the following two factors.
First, the increase in sales volume permitted increased utilization of certain
fixed and semi-variable components of the Company's overhead structure. Second,
there was an unfavorable change in mix as sales of backplane connection systems,
whose product margins are
 

 
generally lower than those of electronic test systems, were higher as a
percentage of total Company sales. Engineering and development expenses, as a
percentage of sales, declined 1% in 1994, compared with 1993. The dollar amount
of these expenses grew $12.0 million in 1994 as a result of increased investment
in new product development of semiconductor test systems. Selling and
administrative expenses declined from 22% of sales to 19% as the dollar amount
of these expenses grew only 4% while sales increased by 23%.
 
     Interest income increased $4.0 million in 1994 as a result of a $70.9
million increase in the Company's average invested balances during the year and
as a result of higher interest rates. Interest expense decreased $2.1 million in
1994 as a result of the Company's retirement of its 9.25% convertible
subordinated debentures in the fourth quarter of 1993.
 
     The Company's effective tax rate was 33% in 1994 compared to 28% in 1993.
The Company was able to operate with an effective tax rate below the United
States statutory rate of 35% as a result of the utilization of tax credit and
net operating loss carryforwards. The 1993 combined financial results also
reflect the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes, which resulted in a one-time $7.6 million credit.
The one-time credit resulted from the recognition of previously unrecognized tax
benefits of deductible temporary differences and operating loss carryforwards.
 
     In connection with the retirement of the Company's outstanding 9.25%
convertible subordinated debentures, the Company incurred, in the fourth quarter
of 1993, an extraordinary charge of $0.7 million, net of income taxes, for the
costs of the redemption premium of 3.7% and the write-off of unamortized debt
issuance costs.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     The Company's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance grew
$54.6 million in 1995 following an increase of $70.9 million in 1994. Cash flow
generated from operations was $115.5 million in 1995 and $107.0 million in 1994.
Cash of $24.9 million in 1995 and $17.1 million in 1994 was generated from the
sale of stock to employees under the Company's stock option and stock purchase
plans. A secondary public offering of Megatest common stock, completed in
October 1993 (prior to Megatest's merger with the Company), provided $13.6
million in additional cash in 1994.
 
     Cash was used to fund additions to property, plant and equipment of $93.2
million in 1995 and $40.7 million in 1994. The Company increased its investment
in marketable securities by $64.3 million in 1995. In 1993, the Company's Board
of Directors authorized the repurchase of 1,000,000 shares of the Company's
stock on the open market. Cash of $24.6 million in 1994 and $2.3 million in 1993
was utilized for this buyback of the Company's stock. Long-term debt increased
by $11.5 million in 1995 after a reduction of $1.5 million in 1994. The 1995
increase resulted from borrowing at Megatest prior to the merger.
 
     The Company believes its cash and cash equivalents balance of $182.2
million, together with other sources of funds, including marketable securities
of $93.7 million, cash flow generated from operations, and the available
borrowing capacity of $120.0 million under its line of credit agreement, will be
sufficient to meet working capital and capital expenditure requirements in 1996.
 
     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, "Statement 123". Statement 123 encourages, but does not require,
the recognition of compensation expense for grants of stock, stock options, and
other equity instruments based upon new fair value accounting rules (the
"recognition method"). Companies that choose not to adopt the recognition method
may continue to apply the existing accounting principles however, Statement 123
requires companies that choose not to adopt the new fair value accounting rules
to disclose pro forma net income and earnings per share amounts under the new
fair value method (the "disclosure method"). The Company plans to adopt the
disclosure method in 1996 and will report the pro forma effect of applying fair
value accounting rules to grants of stock-based awards on net income and
earnings per share in its 1996 financial statements.
 

 
     Inflation has not had a significant long-term impact on earnings. If there
was inflation, the Company's efforts to cover cost increases with price
increases could be frustrated in the short-term by its relatively high backlog.
 
CERTAIN FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS
 
     From time to time, information provided by the Company, statements made by
its employees or information included in its filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (including this Form 10-K and the Company's Annual Report to
Shareholders) may contain statements which are not historical facts, so-called
"forward looking statements," which involve risks and uncertainties. In
particular, statements in "Item 1. Business" relating to the Company's market
share position and the delivery time of unfilled orders, and in "Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" relating to the sufficiency of capital to meet working capital and
capital expenditure requirements may be forward-looking statements. The
Company's actual future results may differ significantly from those stated in
any forward looking statements. Factors that may cause such differences include,
but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. Each of these factors, and
others, are discussed from time to time in the Company's filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
     The Company's future results are subject to substantial risks and
uncertainties. The Company's business and results of operations depend in
significant part upon capital expenditures of manufacturers of semiconductors,
which in turn depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for
semiconductors and products incorporating semiconductors. Historically, the
semiconductor industry has been highly cyclical with recurring periods of over
supply, which often have had a severe effect on the semiconductor industry's
demand for test equipment, including systems manufactured and marketed by the
Company. The Company believes that the markets for newer generations of
semiconductors will also be subject to similar fluctuations. In recent years,
the semiconductor industry has experienced significant growth which, in turn,
has caused significant growth in the capital equipment industry. There can be no
assurance that such growth can be sustained. In addition, any factor adversely
affecting the semiconductor industry or particular segments within the
semiconductor industry may adversely affect the Company's business, financial
condition and operating results. Also, the Company relies on certain
intellectual property protections to preserve its intellectual property rights.
Any invalidation of the Company's intellectual property rights or lengthy and
expensive defense of those rights could have a material adverse affect on the
Company. The development of new technologies, commercialization of those
technologies into products, and market acceptance and customer demand for those
products is critical to the Company's success. Successful product development
and introduction depends upon a number of factors, including new product
selection, development of competitive products by competitors, timely and
efficient completion of product design, timely and efficient implementation of
manufacturing and assembly processes and product performance at customer
locations. The Company faces substantial competition throughout the world,
primarily from electronic test systems manufacturers located in the United
States, Europe and Japan, as well as several of the Company's customers. Some of
these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources to
pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products.
Certain of the Company's competitors have introduced or announced new products
with certain performance characteristics which may be considered equal or
superior to those currently offered by the Company. The Company expects its
competitors to continue to improve the performance of their current products and
to introduce new products or new technologies that provide improved cost of
ownership and performance characteristics. New product introductions by
competitors could cause a decline in sales or loss of market acceptance of the
Company's existing products. Moreover, increased competitive pressure could lead
to intensified price based competition, which could materially adversely affect
the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The
Company derives a significant portion of its total revenues from international
sales. International sales are subject to significant risks, including
unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and policy changes
affecting the Company's markets, changes in tariffs, exchange rates and other
barriers, political and economic instability, difficulties in accounts
receivable collection, difficulties in managing distributors and
representatives, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations,
difficulties in protecting the Company's intellectual property and potentially
adverse tax consequences.
 

 
     The Company's quarterly and annual operating results are affected by a wide
variety of factors that could materially adversely affect revenues and
profitability, including: competitive pressures on selling prices; the timing
and cancellation of customer orders; changes in product mix; the Company's
ability to introduce new products and technologies on a timely basis;
introduction of products and technologies by the Company's competitors; market
acceptance of the Company's and its competitors' products; the level of orders
received which can be shipped in a quarter; and the timing of investments in
research and development. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, the
Company may experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a
quarterly or annual basis which could materially and adversely affect its
business, financial condition, operating results and stock price.
 

 
ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Directors and Shareholders of
TERADYNE, INC.:
 
     We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Teradyne, Inc. as of
December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated statements of income,
cash flows, and shareholders' equity for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1995. The financial statements give retroactive effect to the
merger of Teradyne, Inc. and Megatest Corporation (Megatest) on December 1,
1995, which has been accounted for using the pooling of interests method as
described in Note B to the consolidated financial statements. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We did not audit the consolidated financial statements of Megatest
for the years ended August 31, 1994 and 1993, which statements reflect
consolidated total assets constituting 13% of the related consolidated total
assets as of December 31, 1994, and which reflect consolidated net sales
constituting 13% and 12% of the related consolidated net sales for the years
ended December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Those statements were audited by
other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar
as it relates to the amounts included for Megatest, is based solely on the
reports of the other auditors.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits and the reports of the other auditors provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the consolidated financial position of Teradyne, Inc. as of December 31, 1995
and 1994, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995, after giving
retroactive effect to the merger of Megatest, as described in the notes to the
consolidated financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.
 
                                         COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
Boston, Massachusetts
 
January 18, 1996, except as to the third
  paragraph of Note E, for which the date is
  January 31, 1996.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
A.  THE COMPANY
 
     Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") designs, manufactures, markets, and services
electronic test systems and related software used by component manufacturers in
the design and testing of their products and by electronic equipment
manufacturers for the incoming inspection of components and for the design and
testing of circuit boards and other assemblies. Manufacturers use such systems
and software to increase product performance, to improve product quality, to
shorten time to market, to enhance manufacturability, to conserve labor costs,
and to increase production yields. The Company's electronic systems are also
used by telephone operating companies for the testing and maintenance of their
subscriber telephone lines and related equipment.
 
     The Company also manufactures backplane connection systems, principally for
the computer, telecommunications, and military/aerospace industries. A backplane
is a panel that supports the circuit boards in an electronic assembly and
carries the wiring that connects the boards to each other and to other elements
of a system.
 
B.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  Basis of Presentation
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned. All significant
intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated. Certain prior years'
amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. On
December 1, 1995, the Company completed its acquisition of Megatest Corporation
("Megatest"), by means of a merger of M Merger Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary
of the Company, with and into Megatest. As a result of the merger, Megatest
became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Megatest combination has
been accounted for as a pooling of interests. The consolidated financial
statements of the Company for periods prior to the merger have been restated to
include the financial position and results of operations of the combined
companies.
 
  Preparation of Financial Statements
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported
periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
  Inventories
 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or
market (net realizable value).
 
  Property, Plant and Equipment
 
     Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Leasehold improvements
and major renewals are capitalized and included in property, plant and equipment
accounts while expenditures for maintenance and repairs and minor renewals are
charged to expense. When assets are retired, the assets and related allowances
for depreciation and amortization are removed from the accounts and any
resulting gain or loss is reflected in operations.
 
     The Company provides for depreciation of its property principally on the
straight-line method by charges to expense which are sufficient to write-off the
cost of the assets over their estimated useful lives.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
B.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)
  Revenue Recognition
 
     Revenue is recorded when products are shipped or, in instances where
products are configured to customer requirements, upon the successful completion
of test procedures. Service revenue is recognized ratably over applicable
contract periods or as services are performed. In certain situations, revenue is
recorded using the percentage of completion method based upon the completion of
measurable milestones, with changes to total estimated costs and anticipated
losses, if any, recognized in the period in which determined.
 
  Engineering and Development Costs
 
     The Company's products are highly technical in nature and require a large
and continuing engineering and development effort. All engineering and
development costs are expensed as incurred.
 
  Income Taxes
 
     Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences
between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are
measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the
differences are expected to reverse. The measurement of deferred tax assets is
reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon weighted available evidence, it
is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be
realized.
 
     The Company's practice is to provide U.S. federal taxes on undistributed
earnings of the Company's foreign sales and service subsidiaries.
 
  Translation of Foreign Currencies
 
     Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries which are denominated in
foreign currencies are remeasured into U.S. dollars at rates of exchange in
effect at the end of the fiscal year except nonmonetary assets and liabilities
which are remeasured using historical exchange rates. Revenue and expense
amounts are remeasured using an average of exchange rates in effect during the
year, except those amounts related to nonmonetary assets and liabilities, which
are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Net realized and unrealized gains
and losses resulting from foreign currency remeasurement are included in
operations.
 
  Net Income per Common Share
 
     Net income per common share is based upon the weighted average number of
common and common equivalent shares (when dilutive) outstanding each year.
Common equivalent shares result from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock
options, the proceeds of which are then assumed to have been used to repurchase
outstanding common stock using the treasury stock method. Primary and fully
diluted earnings per share are equal for all periods presented.
 
C.  MERGER -- POOLING OF INTERESTS
 
     On December 1, 1995, the Company acquired through a merger all of the
authorized and outstanding common stock of Megatest in exchange for
approximately 6,831,000 shares of the Company's common stock using an exchange
ratio of 0.9091 of one share of the Company's common stock for each Megatest
share. In addition, all outstanding Megatest stock options were converted, at
the common stock exchange ratio, into options to purchase the Company's common
stock. Megatest manufactures electronic test systems for the integrated circuit
industry. Prior to the merger, Megatest prepared its financial statements on an
August 31 fiscal year end. Megatest's fiscal year has been changed to December
31 to conform to the Company's year end. The restated financial statements for
1994 and 1993 include Megatest's amounts as of and for the years ended August
31, 1994 and 1993, respectfully. As a result, Megatest's financial position and
results of
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 

 
     The combined financial results reflect the restatement of Megatest's
provision for income taxes in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards No.
109 Accounting for Income Taxes. Due to the merger, Megatest's previously
unrecognized tax benefits of deductible temporary differences and operating loss
carryforwards were recognized by the combined company in the restated periods.
The restatement of the provision for income taxes increased net income in 1993
by $7.6 million and decreased net income in 1994 by $5.1 million. The combined
financial results also include adjustments, which were immaterial to the
combined financial statements, to conform accounting policies of the two
companies. Adjustments made to conform the accounting policies of the two
companies decreased net income by $0.2 million in 1994 and 1995. All other
adjustments consist of reclassifications to conform financial statement
presentation. There were no intercompany transactions between the two companies
for the periods presented.
 
     In connection with the merger, the Company recorded a $5.6 million one-time
charge in the fourth quarter of 1995 for transaction costs consisting primarily
of professional fees.
 
D.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  Fair Value
 
     The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with maturities of
three months or less at date of acquisition to be cash equivalents. At December
31, 1995 and 1994, marketable securities consist of short-term investments in
U.S. Treasury Bills with original maturities of greater than three months and
remaining contractual maturities of less than one year. The Company has
classified these marketable securities as held to maturity. Accordingly,
marketable securities and cash equivalents are carried at amortized cost plus
accrued interest, which approximate fair value. The Company's debt includes
subsidized loans whose fair value is not practicable to estimate. For all other
balance sheet financial instruments and the remaining debt of the Company, the
carrying amount approximates fair value.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
D.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
  Off-Balance Sheet Risk
 
     The Company regularly enters into forward foreign exchange contracts in
European and Japanese currencies to hedge its overseas net monetary position and
firm commitments. These contracts are used to reduce the Company's risk
associated with exchange rate movements, as gains and losses on these contracts
are intended to offset foreign exchange losses and gains on underlying
exposures. The Company does not engage in foreign currency speculation. Forward
foreign exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year, unless they
relate to long term sales contracts denominated in a foreign currency; these
maturities are from one to three years.
 
     At December 31, 1995, the Company had the following forward exchange
contracts to buy U.S. dollars for foreign currencies, with notional amounts
totaling $66.3 million; $38.8 million German deutschemark, $13.8 million
Japanese yen, and $13.7 million various other European currencies. In addition,
the Company had forward exchange contracts to sell U.S. dollars for German
deutschemarks with notional amounts of $22.9 million. At December 31, 1994 the
face amount of forward exchange contracts outstanding was $67.9 million. The
fair value of these contracts as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, determined by
applying the year end foreign currency exchange rates to the notional contract
amounts, represented a net unrealized loss of $4.4 million and $2.0 million,
respectively.
 
     The Company's policy is to defer gains and losses on these contracts until
the corresponding losses and gains are recognized on the items being hedged.
During 1994, the Company recorded in other current assets a $2.9 million loss on
deferred forward foreign exchange contracts relating to a long term sales
contract denominated in a foreign currency. At December 31, 1995, a net $1.0
million loss remains in other current assets. This remaining net loss will serve
to offset foreign exchange transaction gains to be recognized on the hedged
items.
 
  Concentration of Credit Risk
 
     Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash investments, forward
foreign exchange contracts, and accounts receivable. Concentrations of credit
risk with respect to accounts receivable are limited due to the large number of
diverse and geographically dispersed customers. The Company maintains cash
investments primarily in U.S. government obligations which essentially have no
credit risk. Credit risk exposure from forward contracts is minimized as these
instruments are contracted with high quality financial institutions.
 
E.  DEBT
 

 
     The total maturities of long-term debt for the succeeding five years and
thereafter are: 1996 -- $2.1 million; 1997 -- $2.1 million; 1998 -- $2.3
million; 1999 -- 1.8 million; 2000 -- $0.5 million and $12.0 million thereafter.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
E.  DEBT -- (CONTINUED)

  Revolving Credit Agreement
 
     On January 31, 1996, the Company increased its available revolving credit
line to $120.0 million from $80.0 million. The revolving credit agreement is in
effect through January 31, 1999. At expiration of the revolver, any amounts
outstanding are converted into a two year term note. As of December 31, 1995, no
amounts were outstanding under this agreement. The terms of this line of credit
include restrictive covenants regarding working capital, tangible net worth, and
leverage. Interest rates on borrowings are either at the stated prime rate or
based upon Eurocurrency or certificate of deposit interest rates. Pursuant to
the terms of the credit agreement, the Company may incur additional indebtedness
of up to $30.0 million provided that the liabilities of the Company, exclusive
of deferred income taxes and subordinated debt, shall not exceed 100% of the
Company's tangible net worth.
 
  Mortgage Notes Payable
 
     The Company received a loan of $4.5 million from the Boston Redevelopment
Authority in the form of a 3% mortgage loan maturing March 31, 2013. This loan
is collateralized by a mortgage on the Company's property at 321 Harrison Avenue
which may, at the Company's option, become subordinated to another mortgage up
to a maximum of $5.0 million. Interest for the first 4 1/2 years of the note was
capitalized up to a principal amount of $5.0 million. Since September 30, 1987,
the Company has been making semi-annual interest payments.
 
     In conjunction with the purchase of its general operating facilities
Megatest received a $5.5 million mortgage loan which matures on August 31, 2000.
The loan is collateralized by a mortgage on Megatest's facilities in San Jose,
California. The loan bears interest at 8.1% per annum and is payable in 59
consecutive monthly installments of $0.05 million with a $4.6 million balloon
payment due at maturity. The terms of this mortgage note payable require
compliance with certain restrictive financial covenants and principal prepayment
clauses.
 
  Equipment Notes Payable
 
     During August 1995, Megatest entered into two capital equipment notes
payable. The first note with an original amount of $5.0 million is payable in 48
consecutive monthly installments of principal and interest at 9.5% per annum.
The second note with an original amount of $1.9 million is payable in 48
consecutive monthly installments of principal and interest at 8.7% with a $0.4
million balloon payment due at maturity. The terms of these equipment notes
payable require compliance with certain restrictive financial covenants and
principal prepayment clauses.
 
  Other Long-term Debt
 
     At December 31, 1995, other long-term debt includes a Japanese
yen-denominated note with an interest rate of 4.8%, secured by land in Kumamoto,
Japan. Interest only payments were made through March 31, 1995. Monthly
principal and interest payments began April 28, 1995 and continue until March
30, 2007.
 
  Short-term Borrowings
 
     The weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings outstanding as
of December 31, 1995 and 1994 was 4.2% and 3.2%, respectively.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
F.  CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES
 
     During 1993, $5.0 million principal amount of debentures was converted into
210,585 shares of common stock resulting in an increase of $4.7 million of
shareholders' equity (net of the related $0.3 million unamortized debt issue
costs). On November 19, 1993, the Company exercised its option to repurchase the
remaining $10.4 million outstanding debentures. The Company used $10.8 million
of available cash to repurchase the debentures at a premium of 103.7% of the
principal amount The premium amount and the write-off of the remaining
unamortized debt issue cost resulted in a charge of $1.0 million. This charge,
net of the related taxes of $0.3 million, is reflected as an extraordinary loss
in the consolidated statements of income.
 
G.  COMMITMENTS
 
     Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993 was
$13.1 million, $11.1 million, and $12.8 million, respectively. Minimum annual
rentals under all noncancellable leases are: 1996 -- $5.6 million; 1997 -- $5.0
million; 1998 -- $4.7 million; 1999 -- $3.0 million; 2000 -- $1.8 million; and
$8.8 million thereafter, totaling $28.9 million.
 
H.  PENSION PLANS
 
     The Company has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all
domestic employees and employees of certain international subsidiaries. Benefits
under these plans are based on the employees' years of service and compensation.
The Company's funding policy is to make contributions to the plans in accordance
with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible.
The assets of the plans consist primarily of equity and fixed income securities.
 

 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
H.  PENSION PLANS -- (CONTINUED)


 
     In addition to the above plans, the Company in 1993 established an unfunded
supplemental defined benefit pension plan in the United States to provide
retirement benefits in excess of levels allowed by the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA). The actuarial present value of accumulated plan
benefits totaled $1.9 million and $1.3 million at December 31, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. Net pension expense was $0.5 million in 1995 and $0.4 million in
1994 and 1993.
 
I.  COMMON STOCK SPLIT
 
     On July 24, 1995 the Company's Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one
stock split effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend distributed on August
29, 1995 to shareholders of record as of August 8, 1995. As a result of the
stock split, the accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect an
increase in the number of outstanding shares of common stock and the transfer of
the par value of these additional shares from paid-in capital. All share and per
share amounts have been restated to reflect the retroactive effect of the stock
split, except for the capitalization of the Company.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
J.  STOCK OPTION PLANS
 
     Under its stock option plans, the Company and Megatest granted options to
certain directors, officers and employees entitling them to purchase common
stock at 100% of market value at the date of grant.
 

 
     There were no charges to operations in connection with these options other
than incidental expenses related to the issuance of shares.
 
     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, (Statement 123). Statement 123 encourages but does not require the
recognition of compensation expense for grants of stock, stock options, and
other equity instruments based upon new fair value accounting rules (the
"recognition method"). Companies that choose not to adopt the recognition method
may continue to apply the existing accounting principles however, Statement 123
requires companies that choose not to adopt the new fair value accounting rules
to disclose pro forma net income and earnings per share amounts under the new
fair value method (the "disclosure method"). The Company plans to adopt the
disclosure method in 1996 and will report the pro forma effect (which has not
yet been determined) of applying fair value accounting rules to grants of
stock-based awards on net income and earnings per share in its 1996 financial
statements.
 
K.  SAVINGS PLANS
 
     The Company sponsors a Savings Plan covering substantially all domestic
employees. Under this plan, employees may contribute up to 12% of their
compensation (subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations). The Company
annually matches employee contributions up to 6% of such compensation at rates
ranging from
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
K.  SAVINGS PLANS -- (CONTINUED)
50% to 100%. The Company's contributions vest after two years, although
contributions for those employees with five years of service vest immediately.
 
     The trustees of the Savings Plan were granted an option to purchase 900,000
shares of the Company's common stock, exercisable at $9.50 per share (the fair
market value of the Company's common stock at the date of the grant) in five
cumulative annual installments beginning in 1990. In 1994, the trustees
exercised the remaining 265,000 shares. Under the terms of the Plan, any gains
realized from the sale of option shares were first allocated to participants'
accounts to fund up to one-half of the minimum Company contribution. Any excess
was applied to additional funding.
 
     In 1994, the Company established a Supplemental Savings Plan to provide
savings benefits in excess of those allowed by ERISA. The provisions of which
are the same as the Savings Plan.
 
     Under these plans, the amounts charged to operations were $8.3 million in
1995 and $2.0 million in 1994 and 1993.
 
L.  EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLANS
 
     Under the Company's 1979 Stock Purchase Plan, employees are entitled to
purchase shares of common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of their
compensation. The price paid for the common stock is equal to 85% of the lower
of the fair market value of the Company's common stock on either the first or
last business day of the year. In January 1996, the Company issued 503,672
shares of common stock to employees who participated in the Plan during 1995 at
a price of $14.08 per share. Currently there are 617,608 shares reserved for
issuance.
 
     During 1995, Megatest sponsored a Stock Purchase Plan in which employees
were able to purchase on a semi-annual basis shares of common stock through
payroll deductions of up to 10% of their compensation. The price paid for the
common stock was equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of
Megatest's common stock on either the first or last business day of the
semi-annual period. On June 30, 1995, employees purchased, as adjusted by the
common stock exchange ratio, 84,546 shares at an equivalent price of $5.81 per
share. Immediately prior to the December 1, 1995 merger, employees purchased an
additional 46,124 shares at a price of $12.23 per share.
 
M.  STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
 
     The Company's Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan on March
14, 1990, under which a dividend of one Common Stock Purchase Right was
distributed for each outstanding share of Common Stock. The Plan entitles Stock
Purchase Right holders to purchase shares of the Company's common stock for $20
per share in certain events, such as a tender offer to acquire 30% or more of
the Company's outstanding shares. Under some circumstances, such as a
determination by continuing Directors, that an acquiring party's interests are
adverse to those of the Company, the Plan entitles such holders (other than an
acquiring party or adverse party) to purchase $40 worth of Common Stock (or
other securities or consideration owned by the Company) for $20. The Plan will
expire March 26, 2000 unless earlier redeemed by the Company.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
N.  INCOME TAXES


 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
N.  INCOME TAXES -- (CONTINUED)


 
     Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, (Statement 109). As
permitted by Statement 109 the Company has elected not to restate its financial
statements for any periods prior to 1993. The effect on operations for 1993
resulted in a one-time $7.6 million credit. The Company also increased
Additional Paid-in Capital by $6.9 million relating to the tax benefits to be
derived from the utilization of U.S. net operating loss carryforward amounts
resulting from tax deductions pertaining to the issuance of the Company's stock
to employees under its benefit plans.
 
     Upon adoption of Statement 109 the Company established a valuation
allowance of $5.5 million related to the utilization of U.S. federal and foreign
tax credit carryforwards and net operating loss carryforwards in certain foreign
jurisdictions. During 1993, 1994, and 1995 the Company decreased the valuation
allowance $1.6 million, $1.9 million, and $2.0 million, respectively.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
N.  INCOME TAXES -- (CONTINUED)


 
     At December 31, 1995, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $3.0 million. These net operating loss carryforwards expire in the
years 2000 through 2002. The Company has approximately $4.1 million of U.S.
business tax credit carryforwards. Approximately $2.6 million of these credits
expire in the years 1996 through 1999, and $1.5 million expire in the years 2003
through 2007. All of these losses and credits are limited in their use by
"change in ownership" rules as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
 

 
                                 TERADYNE, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
O. INDUSTRY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION






 
     See "Item 1: Business -- Marketing and Sales" elsewhere in this report for
information on the Company's export and foreign jurisdictional activities,
identifiable assets of foreign subsidiaries, and major customers.
 

 
                           SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
     The following sets forth certain unaudited consolidated quarterly
statements of operations data for each of the Company's last eight quarters. In
management's opinion, this quarterly information reflects all adjustments,
consisting only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for a fair
presentation for the periods presented. Such quarterly results are not
necessarily indicative of future results of operations and should be read in
conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company
and the notes thereto included elsewhere herein.
 

 

 
- ---------------
*Note: Previously published quarterly financial data have been restated to
       reflect the pooling of interests with Megatest Corporation (see "Note C:
       Merger -- Pooling of Interests" in Notes to Consolidated Financial
       Statements) and to give effect to the two-for-one stock split effected in
       the form of a 100% stock dividend distributed on August 29, 1995.
 

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheet and related consolidated
statements of operations, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows of Megatest
Corporation (not presented separately herein) present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Megatest Corporation and its subsidiaries at
August 31, 1994, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for
the year ended August 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit of these statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.
 
     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements referred to
above (and not included herein), Megatest Corporation changed its method of
accounting for income taxes effective September 1, 1993.
 
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
 
San Jose, California
September 20, 1995
 

 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
Megatest Corporation:
 
     We have audited the consolidated statements of operations, stockholders'
equity and cash flows of Megatest Corporation and its subsidiaries for the year
ended August 31, 1993 (not presented separately herein). These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit.
 
     We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects the results of operations and cash flows of Megatest
Corporation and its subsidiaries for the year ended August 31, 1993 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
San Jose, California
September 21, 1993
 

 
ITEM 9:  CHANGES AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
         DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
     Certain information relating to directors and executive officers of the
Company, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management, and certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference herein from the Company's definitive proxy statement
in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 23,
1996, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this
purpose, the Management Compensation and Development Committee Report and
Performance Graph included in such proxy statement are specifically not
incorporated herein. (Also see "Item 1 -- Executive Officers of the Company"
elsewhere in this report)
 
ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     Certain information relating to directors and executive officers of the
Company, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management, and certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference herein from the Company's definitive proxy statement
in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 23,
1996, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this
purpose, the Management Compensation and Development Committee Report and
Performance Graph included in such proxy statement are specifically not
incorporated herein.
 
ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
     Certain information relating to directors and executive officers of the
Company, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management, and certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference herein from the Company's definitive proxy statement
in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 23,
1996, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this
purpose, the Management Compensation and Development Committee Report and
Performance Graph included in such proxy statement are specifically not
incorporated herein.
 
ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     Certain information relating to directors and executive officers of the
Company, executive compensation, security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management, and certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated by reference herein from the Company's definitive proxy statement
in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 23,
1996, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. For this
purpose, the Management Compensation and Development Committee Report and
Performance Graph included in such proxy statement are specifically not
incorporated herein.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
(A) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     The following consolidated financial statements are included in Item 8:
 
        Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1995 and 1994
        Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and
        Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994,
        and 1993
        Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
        December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993
 
(A) 2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
     Financial statement schedules have been omitted since either they are not
required or the information is otherwise included.
 
(A) 3.  LISTING OF EXHIBITS
 
     The Exhibits which are filed with this report or which are incorporated by
reference herein are set forth in the Exhibit Index.
 
(B) REPORT ON FORM 8-K
 
     A current report on Form 8-K dated December 1, 1995, has been filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the Company's merger with
Megatest Corporation.
 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
     The following designated exhibits are, as indicated below, either filed
herewith or have heretofore been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and are referred to and incorporated by reference to such filings.
 

 

 

 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized this 26th day of March,
1996.
 
                                          TERADYNE, INC.
 
                                                      OWEN W. ROBBINS
                                          By:----------------------------------
                                                      Owen W. Robbins,
                                                  Executive Vice President
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

