
10-K405
CARDINAL HEALTH, INC.            10-K405



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

[ X ]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1998

                                       or

[  ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission File Number: 0-12591

                              CARDINAL HEALTH, INC.
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


                                 (614) 717-5000
               Registrant's telephone number, including area code

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None.

     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No _____

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.
[  X ]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of August 21, 1998 was approximately $12,545,020,015.

     The number of Registrant's Common Shares outstanding as of August 21, 1998,
was as follows:

       Common shares, without par  value:          133,591,258
                                         ---------------------------------------

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:


     Portions of the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed for its
1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





                                




INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including information
incorporated by reference) include "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words
"believe", "expect", "anticipate", "project", and similar expressions, among
others, identify "forward looking statements", which speak only as of the date
the statement was made. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks,
uncertainties and other factors which could cause actual results to materially
differ from those made, projected or implied. The most significant of such
risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in this report and in
Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 10-K. The Company undertakes no obligation to
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
new information, future events, or otherwise.

                                     PART I

ITEM 1:    BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation formed in 1979, is structured as
a holding company conducting business through a number of separate operating
subsidiaries. These operating subsidiaries are sometimes collectively referred
to as the "Cardinal Health" companies. As used in this report, the "Registrant"
and the "Company" refer to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless
the context requires otherwise. Except as otherwise specified, information in
this report is provided as of June 30, 1998. Subsequent to the end of the 1998
fiscal year, the Company completed a merger transaction with R.P. Scherer
Corporation ("Scherer") and terminated its merger agreement with Bergen Brunswig
Corporation ("Bergen"). See "Acquisitions" below for further discussion relating
to such subsequent matters.

     The Company is a leading healthcare service provider which offers an array
of value-added pharmaceutical distribution services and pharmaceutical-related
products and services to a broad base of customers. It is one of the country's
leading wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical and related healthcare products
to independent and chain drugstores, hospitals, alternate care centers and the
pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers located throughout
the continental United States. The Company also provides innovative
cost-effective pharmaceutical services that improve the medication use process
to a broad base of customers nationwide. Through its Pyxis Corporation
subsidiary ("Pyxis"), the Company develops, manufactures, leases, sells and
services unique point-of-use systems which automate the distribution, management
and control of medications and supplies in hospitals and alternate care
facilities. Through its Owen Healthcare, Inc. subsidiary ("Owen"), the Company
provides pharmacy management and information services to hospitals. The Company
is also the largest franchisor of independent retail pharmacies in the United
States through its Medicine Shoppe International, Inc. subsidiary ("Medicine
Shoppe"). PCI Services, Inc. ("PCI"), another one of the Company's subsidiaries,
is a leading international provider of integrated packaging services to
pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Company serves as a developer and provider of
clinical information management systems through its subsidiary, MediQual
Systems, Inc. ("MediQual"), which functions as part of the Cardinal Information
Corporation subsidiary ("CIC"). The Company's newest operating subsidiary,
Scherer, which was acquired on August 7, 1998, is an international developer and
manufacturer of drug delivery systems, including soft gelatin capsules, and is
further discussed under "Acquisitions" below.

     As a full-service wholesale distributor, the Company complements its
distribution activities by offering a broad range of value-added support
services to assist the Company's customers and suppliers in maintaining and
improving their sales volumes. These support services include computerized order
entry and order confirmation systems, generic sourcing programs, product
movement and management reports, consultation on store operation and
merchandising, and customer training. The Company's proprietary software systems
feature customized databases specially designed to help its customers order more
efficiently, contain costs, and monitor their purchases, which are covered by
group contract purchasing arrangements.

     The Company operates several specialty healthcare businesses which offer
value-added services to the Company's customers and suppliers while providing
the Company with additional opportunities for growth and profitability. For
example, the Company operates a pharmaceutical repackaging program for both
independent and chain drugstore customers and serves as a distributor of
therapeutic plasma products, oncology products and other specialty
pharmaceuticals to hospitals, clinics and other managed care facilities on a
nationwide basis through the utilization of telemarketing and direct mail
programs. The Company also provides reimbursement consulting services to
pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical products companies. These specialty
distribution activities are part of the Company's strategy to develop
diversified products and services to enhance the profitability of its business
and that of its customers and suppliers.



ACQUISITIONS

     Over the last five years, the Company has completed the following business
combinations. In May 1993, the Company purchased Solomons Company, a Savannah,
Georgia-based pharmaceutical wholesaler servicing customers located primarily in
the southeastern region of the United States, in exchange for approximately 1.6
million Cardinal Common Shares, without par value, ("Common Shares"). In
December 1993, the Company issued approximately 0.4 million Common Shares in a
merger transaction for all of the capital stock of PRN Services, Inc., a
distributor of oncology and other specialty products to clinics and physician
groups across the United States. In February 1994, the Company completed a
merger transaction with Whitmire Distribution Corporation ("Whitmire"), a
Folsom, California-based pharmaceutical wholesaler (the "Whitmire Merger") and
issued approximately 15.6 million Common Shares in the transaction. On July 1,
1994, the Company purchased Humiston-Keeling, Inc., a Calumet City,
Illinois-based pharmaceutical wholesaler serving customers located primarily in
the upper Midwest region of the United States for cash of $33 million and
assumed liabilities of $94 million. On July 18, 1994, the Company issued
approximately 1.4 million Common Shares in a merger transaction with Behrens
Inc., a Waco, Texas-based pharmaceutical wholesaler servicing customers located
primarily in Texas and adjoining states. On November 13, 1995, the Company
completed a merger transaction with Medicine Shoppe, a St. Louis, Missouri-based
franchisor of independent, apothecary-style retail pharmacies in the United
States and abroad. On May 7, 1996, the Company completed a merger transaction
with Pyxis, a San Diego, California-based designer, manufacturer, marketer and
servicer of unique point-of-use systems which automate the distribution,
management and control of medications and supplies in hospitals and other
healthcare facilities. On October 11, 1996, the Company completed a merger
transaction with PCI, a Philadelphia, Pennsylvania-based provider of diversified
packaging services to the pharmaceutical industry in the United States and
Europe. On March 18, 1997, the Company completed a merger transaction with Owen,
a Houston, Texas-based provider of pharmacy management and information services
to hospitals. On February 18, 1998, the Company completed a merger transaction
with MediQual Systems, Inc., a supplier of clinical information management
systems and services to the healthcare industry. On May 15, 1998, the Company
purchased Comprehensive Reimbursement Consultants, Inc., a provider of
reimbursement consulting services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical
products companies.

     On August 7, 1998, the Company completed a merger transaction with Scherer
(the "Scherer Merger"), an international developer and manufacturer of drug
delivery systems, including soft gelatin capsules, with headquarters located in
Troy, Michigan. Scherer is currently developing and commercializing a variety of
advanced drug delivery systems. Scherer's drug delivery systems improve the
efficacy of drugs by regulating the dosage so as to ease administration,
increase absorption, enhance bioavailability and control the time and place of
release. Scherer's products and manufacturing processes and services are subject
to applicable laws and regulations of governmental agencies or departments in
each of the countries in which it operates, including the U.S. Federal Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act. Scherer has a number of active patents on its specialized
machinery, processes, products and drug delivery systems. Scherer operates a
global network of 19 facilities in 12 countries, of which 15 are owned and 4 are
leased. Scherer's revenue consists of approximately 34% domestic and 66% foreign
sales. Scherer employs approximately 3,600 individuals worldwide.

     On August 24, 1997, the Company and Bergen announced that they had entered
into a definitive merger agreement (as subsequently amended by the parties on
March 16, 1998), pursuant to which a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
would be merged with and into Bergen (the "Bergen Merger Agreement"), which was
subsequently approved by both companies' shareholders on February 20, 1998. On
March 9, 1998, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") filed a complaint in
the United States District Court for the District of Columbia seeking a
preliminary injunction to halt the proposed merger and on July 31, 1998, the
District Court granted the FTC's request for the injunction. On August 7, 1998,
the Company and Bergen jointly terminated the Bergen Merger Agreement.

     The Company continually evaluates possible candidates for merger or
acquisition and intends to continue to seek opportunities to expand its
healthcare operations and services. For additional information concerning the
transactions described above, see Notes 2, 16 and 17 of "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations."


CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS

     The Company distributes pharmaceuticals, surgical and hospital supplies,
health and beauty care products, and related products and services to hospitals,
independent and chain drugstores, alternate care centers, and pharmacy
departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers located throughout the United
States. In addition, the Company markets Pyxis' automated dispensing systems to
hospitals and alternate care centers in the United States, Canada and Australia.
Through Medicine Shoppe, the Company franchises retail pharmacies in the United
States and abroad. Owen provides pharmacy management and information services to
hospitals throughout the United States. PCI provides integrated packaging
services to pharmaceutical manufacturers located in the United States, Canada
and Europe. In fiscal 1998, approximately 91% of the Company's operating
revenues were derived from distribution activities. The Company's largest
customer, Kmart Corporation ("Kmart"), accounted for approximately 12% of
operating revenues (by dollar volume) in fiscal 1998. The Company's business
could be adversely affected if Kmart was lost as a customer.

     The Company obtains its products from many different suppliers, the largest
of which accounted for approximately 5% (by dollar volume) of its operating
revenue in fiscal 1998. The Company's five largest suppliers accounted for
approximately 22% (by dollar volume) of its operating revenue during fiscal 1998
and the Company's relationships with its suppliers are generally very good. The
Company's arrangements with its pharmaceutical suppliers typically may be
canceled by either the Company or the supplier upon 30 to 90 days prior notice,
although many of these arrangements are not governed by formal agreements. The
loss of certain suppliers could adversely affect the Company's business if
alternative sources of supply were unavailable.

     While the Company's operations may show quarterly fluctuations, the Company
does not consider its business to be seasonal in nature on a consolidated basis.

COMPETITION

     The Company's markets are highly competitive. As a pharmaceutical
wholesaler, the Company competes directly with numerous other national and
regional wholesalers, direct selling manufacturers, self-warehousing chains,
mail-order houses, and specialty distributors on the basis of price, breadth of
product lines, marketing programs, and support services. The Company's
pharmaceutical wholesaling operations have narrow profit margins and,
accordingly, the Company's earnings depend significantly on its ability to
distribute a large volume and variety of products efficiently and to provide
quality support services. As a marketer of automated pharmaceutical dispensing
systems through Pyxis, the Company competes based upon price, its installed base
of systems, relationships with customers, customer service and support
capabilities, patents and other intellectual property, and its ability to
interface with customer information systems. Actual and potential competitors to
the Pyxis system include both existing domestic and foreign companies, as well
as emerging companies that supply products for specialized markets and other
outside service providers. With its Owen subsidiary, the Company competes with
both national and regional hospital pharmacy management firms, and self-managed
hospitals and hospital systems on the basis of price, its established base of
business, the effective use of information systems, the development of clinical
programs, and the quality of the services it provides to its customers. Several
smaller franchisors compete with Medicine Shoppe in the franchising of
pharmacies, where competition is based primarily upon price, benefits offered to
both the pharmacist and customer, access to third party programs, and the
reputation of the franchise; Medicine Shoppe also needs to be competitive with
the option a pharmacist always has to remain self-employed at his or her current
position rather than becoming a franchisee. Through PCI, the Company competes
with companies that provide many types of packaging services and those that
provide one or a few types of packaging services, based primarily upon quality,
variety of available packaging services, customer service, responsiveness and
price.

EMPLOYEES

     At August 1, 1998, the Company had approximately 11,200 employees, of which
approximately 900 are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Overall, the
Company considers its employee relations to be good.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     The Company has applied to the United States Patent and Trademark Office
for registration of a number of trademarks and service marks, certain of which
have been registered, and also holds common law rights in various trademarks and
service marks. The Company has also applied for trademark and service mark
registrations for certain of its trademarks and service marks in certain foreign
countries. There can be no assurance that the Company will obtain the
registrations for trademarks and service marks for which it has applied.



     The Company holds patents relating to certain aspects of its automated
pharmaceutical dispensing systems, automated medication management systems and
medication packaging. The Company has a number of pending patent applications in
the United States and certain foreign countries, and intends to pursue
additional patents as appropriate. The Company also owns certain software,
including software used for pharmaceutical purchasing and inventory control,
which is copyrighted and subject to the protection of applicable copyright laws.
For information with respect to Scherer, see "Acquisitions", above.

     No assurances can be given that any intellectual property rights of the
Company (including Scherer) will provide meaningful protection against
competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable or that the Company
will be successful in obtaining additional patents or enforcing its proprietary
rights against others.

REGULATORY MATTERS

     The Company, as a distributor of prescription pharmaceuticals (including
certain controlled substances), an operator of pharmacy operations, and a
pharmaceutical packager is required to register for permits and/or licenses
with, and comply with certain operating and security standards of, the United
States Drug Enforcement Administration, the Food and Drug Administration (the
"FDA") and various state boards of pharmacy or comparable agencies. In addition,
the Company is subject to requirements of the Controlled Substances Act and the
Prescription Drug Marketing Act of 1987, an amendment to the Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act (the "FDCA") which requires each state to regulate the purchase and
distribution of prescription drugs under prescribed minimum standards. The
Company is not currently required to register or submit premarket notifications
to the FDA for its automated pharmaceutical dispensing systems. There can be no
assurance, however, that FDA policy in this regard will not change. Through its
Medicine Shoppe subsidiary, the Company is subject to laws adopted by certain
states which regulate franchise operations and the franchisor-franchisee
relationship, and similar legislation is proposed or pending in additional
states. The most common provisions of such laws establish restrictions on the
ability of franchisors to terminate or to refuse to renew franchise agreements.
Federal Trade Commission rules also require franchisors to make certain
disclosures to prospective franchisees prior to the offer or sale of franchises.
Owen's pharmacy operations and its pharmacies are subject to comprehensive
regulation by state and federal authorities, including state boards of pharmacy
and federal authorities with responsibility for monitoring the storage,
handling, and dispensing of narcotics and other controlled substances. Owen's
contractual arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare
providers also subject it to certain provisions of the federal Social Security
Act which (a) prohibit financial arrangements between providers of healthcare
services to government healthcare program (including Medicare and Medicaid)
beneficiaries and potential referral sources that are designed to induce patient
referrals or the purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for any good,
service or item paid for by such government programs, and (b) impose certain
restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of certain designated
health services under Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Company's PCI
operations in the United Kingdom and Germany are subject to state and local
certification requirements, including compliance with the Good Manufacturing
Practices adopted by the European Community. The Company is also subject to
various federal, state and local laws, regulations and recommendations relating
to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices, and the use
and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. See
"Acquisitions" above for information relating to certain regulatory matters of
Scherer.

ITEM 2:    PROPERTIES

     At August 1, 1998, the Company had 25 principal pharmaceutical distribution
facilities; 3 specialty distribution facilities; 1 medical/surgical distribution
facility; the Pyxis assembly operation; 6 packaging facilities (2 of which are
located in the United Kingdom and 1 of which is located in Germany); and 4 PCI
printing facilities (2 of which are located in Puerto Rico). The Company's
facilities are located in an aggregate of 20 states, Puerto Rico, the United
Kingdom and Germany. Twelve of these facilities are owned by the Company and the
balance are leased. See "Acquisitions" above for information relating to certain
properties of Scherer. The Company's principal executive offices are currently
located in a leased four-story building located at 5555 Glendon Court, Dublin,
Ohio, pending construction of a new leased headquarters facility in Dublin,
Ohio, scheduled to be completed by the end of the first calendar quarter of
1999. The Company considers its operating properties to be in satisfactory
condition and adequate to meet its present needs. However, the Company expects
to make further additions, improvements, and consolidations of its properties as
the Company's business continues to expand.

     For certain financial information regarding the Company's facilities, see
Notes 5 and 9 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."



ITEM 3:    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         In November 1993, the Company and Whitmire, one of the Company's wholly
owned subsidiaries, as well as other pharmaceutical wholesalers, were named as
defendants in a series of purported class action lawsuits which were later
consolidated and transferred by the Judicial Panel for Multi-District Litigation
to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
Subsequent to the consolidation, a new consolidated complaint was filed which
included allegations that the wholesalers defendants, including the Company and
Whitmire, conspired with manufacturers to inflate prices using a chargeback
pricing system. In addition to the federal court cases described above, the
Company and Whitmire have also been named as defendants in a series of state
court cases alleging similar claims under various state laws regarding the sale
of brand name prescription drugs. The wholesaler defendants, including the
Company and Whitmire, entered into a Judgment Sharing Agreement whereby the
total exposure for the Company and its subsidiaries is limited to $1,000,000 or
1% of any judgment against the wholesalers and the manufacturers, whichever is
less, and provides for the reimbursement mechanism of legal fees and expenses.
The Judgment Sharing Agreement covers the federal court litigation as well as
the cases which have been filed in various state courts. On April 10, 1995, the
Court ruled that the Judgment Sharing Agreement was valid. On April 4, 1996,
summary judgment was granted in favor of the wholesaler defendants. The
plaintiffs appealed this decision and on August 15, 1997, the Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit, along with other rulings, reversed the District Court's
decision granting summary judgment to the wholesaler defendants. The wholesaler
defendants subsequently filed a petition seeking review of the Court of Appeals
decision by the United States Supreme Court, which petition was denied. Trial
has been set for the prescription drug litigation to begin on September 14,
1998. In recent months, the wholesaler defendants also have been added as
defendants in a series of related antitrust lawsuits brought by independent
pharmacies who have opted out of the class action cases and by certain chain
drug and grocery stores. Although the ultimate resolution of the litigation
referenced herein cannot be forecast with certainty, the Company and Whitmire
believe that the allegations are without merit, and they intend to contest such
allegations vigorously.

         On January 17, 1995, Burlington Drug Company ("Burlington Drug") filed
a Complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Vermont
alleging that certain supply agreements between VHA, Inc. ("VHA") and the
Company violated federal antitrust statutes and that the Company had tortiously
interfered with Burlington Drug's contractual relations. The Company filed an
answer denying the allegations contained in the Complaint. The District Court
granted Burlington Drug leave to file an Amended and Supplemental Complaint on
July 10, 1997. On July 23, 1997, the Company and VHA each filed Motions to
Dismiss Burlington Drug's Amended and Supplemental Complaint. In October 1997,
the District Court denied these Motions. On March 28, 1998, the Company and VHA
each filed Motions for Summary Judgment, and the parties are awaiting the
District Court's decision on these Motions. Burlington Drug is seeking damages
in an unspecified amount, as well as injunctive relief. Trial has been set to
begin on November 2, 1998. The Company continues to believe that the allegations
made against it in this litigation are without merit, and it intends to contest
such allegations vigorously.

         The Company also becomes involved from time-to-time in other litigation
incidental to its business. Although the ultimate resolution of the litigation
referenced in this Item 3 cannot be forecast with certainty, the Company does
not believe that the outcome of these lawsuits will have a material adverse
effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

ITEM 4:    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     None during the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1998.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company are as follows (information provided as of
August 21, 1998):





     Unless indicated to the contrary, the business experience summaries
provided below for the Company's executive officers describe positions held by
the named individuals during the last five years but may exclude other positions
held with subsidiaries of the Company.

     ROBERT D. WALTER has been a Director, Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company since its formation in 1979 and has served as a
director and officer of certain of the Company's subsidiaries since their
formation or acquisition by the Company. Mr. Walter also serves as a director of
Banc One Corporation, CBS, Inc. and Karrington Health, Inc.

     JOHN C. KANE has been a Director of the Company since August 1993 and has
been the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer since joining the
Company in February 1993. Mr. Kane also serves as a director of Connetics
Corporation and LXR Biotechnology Inc.

     DAVID A. ABRAHAMSON has been an Executive Vice President of the Company
since August 1996 and President of Medicine Shoppe International, Inc. since May
1990. Mr. Abrahamson also serves as a director of Angelica Corporation.

     DAVID BEARMAN has been an Executive Vice President of the Company since
February 1994 and, prior to that, served as a Region President from May 1991 to
February 1994 and as a Senior Vice President of the Company from October 1989.
Mr. Bearman also served as the Company's Chief Financial Officer since joining
the Company in October 1989. Mr. Bearman recently announced that he has accepted
a position with another company, and will resign from the Company, effective
early September. Richard J. Miller, the Company's Vice President, Controller and
Principal Accounting Officer, has been named as acting Chief Financial Officer
until a permanent replacement for Mr. Bearman is named.

     GEORGE H. BENNETT, JR. has been Secretary of the Company since July 1994
and an Executive Vice President of the Company since February 1994. Prior to
that, Mr. Bennett was a Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer
of the Company from May 1991. Mr. Bennett has also served as General Counsel of
the Company since joining the Company in January 1984.

     GEORGE L. FOTIADES has been an Executive Vice President of the Company
since August 1998 and President of R.P. Scherer Corporation since January 1998.
Previously, Mr. Fotiades served as President and Chief Operating Officer of
Scherer since January 1998, and Group President, Americas and Asia Pacific of
Scherer from June 1996 to January 1998. Prior to that, Mr. Fotiades was employed
by Warner-Lambert Company (a pharmaceutical and consumer health products
manufacturer), where he served most recently as President, Warner Wellcome
Consumer Healthcare division.



     JAMES F. MILLAR has been an Executive Vice President of the Company since
February 1994, and was named as Group President of the Company's Cardinal
Distribution pharmaceutical wholesaling business in June 1996. Prior to February
1994, Mr. Millar served in a series of increasingly senior regional operating
positions within the Company's pharmaceutical wholesaling business since he was
hired in 1987.

     CARL A. SPALDING joined the Company in June 1998, as an Executive Vice
President and Group President-Healthcare Product Services. Prior to that, Mr.
Spalding served as a corporate officer of Abbott Laboratories (a pharmaceutical
and health care manufacturer), where he served most recently as Vice President
of Pediatric Products of the Ross Laboratories Division.

     ROBERT J. ZOLLARS joined the Company in January 1997, as an Executive Vice
President and Group President-Pharmacy Automation and Management. Prior to that,
Mr. Zollars served as Group Vice President of Allegiance Corporation since
October 1996 and was a corporate officer of Baxter Healthcare, Inc., most
recently as President, U.S. Distribution. Mr. Zollars also serves as a director
of Epitope, Inc.

     RICHARD J. MILLER has been the Company's Principal Accounting Officer since
August 1996 and has served as Vice President, Controller since August 1995. Upon
joining the Company in July 1994, and until August 1995, he served as Vice
President, Auditing. Prior to that, Mr. Miller was a partner at Deloitte &
Touche LLP (an international accounting firm). In connection with Mr. Bearman's
resignation (see discussion above), Mr. Miller has been named as acting Chief
Financial Officer of the Company until a permanent replacement for Mr. Bearman
has been named.


                                     PART II

ITEM 5:    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON SHARES AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
MATTERS

     The Common Shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol "CAH." The following table reflects the range of the reported high and
low last sale prices of the Common Shares as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Tape and the per share dividends declared thereon for the
fiscal years ended June 30, 1998 and 1997. The information in the table has been
adjusted to reflect retroactively all applicable stock splits through June 30,
1998.


     As of August 21, 1998, there were approximately 2,560 shareholders of
record of the Company's Common Shares.

     On August 12, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a
three-for-two stock split of the Company's common shares payable on October 30,
1998, to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 9, 1998.

     The Company anticipates that it will continue to pay quarterly cash
dividends in the future. However, the payment



and amount of future dividends remain within the discretion of the Company's
Board of Directors and will depend upon the Company's future earnings, financial
condition, capital requirements and other factors.

ITEM 6:    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following selected consolidated financial data of the Company was
prepared giving retroactive effect to the business combinations with Whitmire on
February 7, 1994, Medicine Shoppe on November 13, 1995, Pyxis on May 7, 1996,
PCI on October 11, 1996, and Owen on March 18, 1997, all of which were accounted
for as pooling-of-interests transactions. The consolidated financial data
includes all purchase transactions that occurred during these periods. See "Item
1: Business--Acquisition" for additional information regarding such
combinations. The information does not reflect the Company's August 7, 1998,
acquisition of Scherer, which will be accounted for as a pooling-of-interests.

     For the fiscal years ended June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994, the information
presented is derived from consolidated financial statements which combine data
from Cardinal, Whitmire, Medicine Shoppe and Pyxis for the fiscal years ended
June 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994 with data from PCI for the fiscal years ended
September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, and Owen for the fiscal years
ended November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. For the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1997, the information presented is derived from the consolidated
financial statements which combine Cardinal for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1997 with PCI's financial results for the nine months ended June 30, 1997 and
Owen's financial results for the period of June 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997
(excluding Owen's financial results for December 1996 in order to change Owen's
November 30, fiscal year end to June 30 ). The impact of the merger transaction
with MediQual Systems, Inc. (the "MediQual Merger"), on a historical basis, was
not significant. Accordingly, prior period financial statements have not been
restated for the MediQual Merger, although they will be restated in the first
quarter of fiscal 1999 as a result of the acquisition of Scherer.

     The selected consolidated financial data below should be read in
conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and related
notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations."

                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)




(1)  Amounts reflect business combinations in all periods presented. Fiscal
     1998, 1997, 1996 and 1994 amounts reflect the impact of mergers-related
     costs. See Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a
     further discussion of mergers-related costs affecting fiscal 1998, 1997 and
     1996.

(2)  The Company, beginning in fiscal 1998, is reporting bulk deliveries to
     customer warehouses as part of total revenue. Previously, only the gross
     margin from such sales had been classified in revenue. Such sales have been
     reclassified into revenue and cost of product sold for all periods
     presented. See Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a
     further discussion.

(3)  Effective for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998, the Company adopted SFAS
     No. 128, "Earnings per Share." In accordance with SFAS No. 128, the basic
     and diluted EPS have been restated for all periods presented.

(4)  Net earnings and cash dividends per Common Share have been adjusted to
     retroactively reflect all stock dividends and stock splits through June 30,
     1998.

(5)  On August 12, 1998, the Company declared a three-for-two stock split which
     will be effected as a stock dividend and distributed on October 30, 1998,
     to shareholders of record at the close of business on October 9, 1998.
     Giving retroactive effect to the stock split, the earnings per Common Share
     and cash dividends declared will be restated as follows upon distribution
     on October 30, 1998:



ITEM 7:   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF  OPERATIONS

     Management's discussion and analysis has been prepared giving retroactive
effect to the pooling-of-interests business combinations with Medicine Shoppe on
November 13, 1995, Pyxis on May 7, 1996, PCI on October 11, 1996 and Owen on
March 18, 1997. On February 18, 1998, the Company completed a merger with
MediQual, which was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests. The impact of the
MediQual Merger, on a historical basis, is not significant. Accordingly, prior
period financial statements have not been restated for the MediQual Merger (see
Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,") although they will be
restated in the first quarter of fiscal 1999 as a result of the Company's August
7, 1998, acquisition of Scherer.

     The discussion and analysis presented below should be read in conjunction
with the consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere
in this Form 10-K.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

     OPERATING REVENUE. Operating revenue for fiscal 1998 increased 18% as
compared to the prior year. Distribution businesses' (those whose primary
operations involve the wholesale distribution of pharmaceuticals, representing
91% of total operating revenue) operating revenue (including approximately $196
million sold to Owen, eliminated in consolidation) grew at a rate of 19% during
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998, while Service businesses' (those that
provide services to the healthcare industry, primarily through pharmacy
franchising, pharmacy automation equipment, pharmacy management and
pharmaceutical packaging) operating revenue grew at a rate of 22% during the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1998, primarily on the strength of the Company's
pharmacy automation and pharmacy management businesses. The majority of the
operating revenue increase (approximately 80% for the year ended June 30, 1998)
came from existing customers in the form of increased volume and pharmaceutical
price increases. The remainder of the growth came from the addition of new
customers.



     Operating revenue for fiscal 1997 increased 17%, as compared to the prior
year. Distribution businesses' operating revenue (including approximately $22
million sold to Owen, eliminated in consolidation) grew at a rate of 17% during
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997, while Service businesses grew at a rate of
13%, primarily on the strength of the Company's pharmacy management business.
The increase resulted from internal growth generated primarily by the addition
of new customers, and, to a lesser extent, increased volume from existing
customers and price increases. Expansion of the Company's relationship with
Kmart Corporation ("Kmart") and opportunities created by the deterioration of
the financial condition of a major pharmaceutical distribution competitor also
contributed to the increases during fiscal 1997.

     BULK DELIVERIES TO CUSTOMER WAREHOUSES. Along with other companies in its
industry, the Company has begun reporting as revenue bulk deliveries made to
customers' warehouses, whereby the Company acts as an intermediary in the
ordering and subsequent delivery of pharmaceutical products. All years presented
have been restated to include these bulk deliveries as revenue (previously, only
the service fees related to such bulk deliveries were reported as revenue,
although service fees were not significant in any period presented).
Fluctuations in bulk deliveries result largely from circumstances that are
beyond the control of the Company, including consolidation within the chain
drugstore industry, decisions by chains to either begin or discontinue
warehousing activities, and changes in policy by manufacturers related to
selling directly to chain drugstore customers. Due to the insignificant margins
generated through bulk deliveries, fluctuations in their amount have no
significant impact on operating earnings.

     GROSS MARGIN. For fiscal 1998 and 1997, gross margin as a percentage of
operating revenue was 8.06% and 8.20%, respectively. The fiscal 1998 decrease in
the gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue is due to declines in the
Distribution businesses' gross margin, and to a lesser extent, declines in the
Service businesses' gross margin. The Distribution businesses' gross margin as a
percentage of operating revenue decreased from 5.82% in fiscal 1997 to 5.57% in
fiscal 1998. The decrease is primarily due to the impact of lower selling
margins, as a result of a highly competitive market and a greater mix of high
volume customers, where a lower cost of distribution and better asset management
enable the Company to offer lower selling margins to its customers. The Service
businesses' gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue was 31.47% and
32.52% in fiscal 1998 and 1997, respectively. The slight decline in gross margin
rates experienced by the Service businesses is primarily a function of the mix
of the various businesses. Revenue growth has been greater in the relatively
lower margin pharmacy management and pharmaceutical packaging businesses than it
has been in the higher margin pharmacy franchising business.

     For fiscal 1997 and 1996, gross margin as a percentage of operating revenue
was 8.20% and 8.61%, respectively. The change in gross margin for the year was
primarily due to the shift in revenue mix caused by significant increases in the
relatively lower margin pharmaceutical distribution activities. The impact of
this shift was partially offset by increased merchandising and marketing
programs with customers and suppliers. The Company's gross margin continues to
be affected by the combination of a highly competitive environment and a greater
mix of high volume customers, where a lower cost of service and better asset
management enable the Company to offer lower selling margins and still achieve
higher operating margins relative to other customer business.

     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of operating revenue improved to 4.39%
in fiscal 1998 compared to 4.70% in fiscal 1997. The improvements reflect
economies associated with the Company's revenue growth, as well as significant
productivity gains resulting from continued cost control efforts and the
consolidation and selective automation of operating facilities. The 10% growth
in selling, general and administrative expenses experienced during fiscal 1998
was due primarily to increases in personnel costs and depreciation expense, and
compares favorably to the 18% growth in operating revenue for the same period.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of operating
revenue improved to 4.70% in fiscal 1997 compared to 5.47% in fiscal 1996. The
improvements in fiscal 1997 reflect the economies associated with the Company's
revenue growth, as well as significant productivity gains resulting from
continued cost control efforts and the consolidation and selective automation of
operating facilities. Additionally, certain expenses such as employee severance,
asset impairments and lease exit costs, recorded in fiscal 1996 did not recur in
fiscal 1997.

     SPECIAL CHARGES. During fiscal 1998, the Company recorded mergers-related
charges associated with transaction costs incurred in connection with the
MediQual Merger ($2.3 million) and transaction costs incurred in connection with
the proposed merger transaction with Bergen ($33.4 million) which was terminated
subsequent to year-end (see Note 17 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements"). Additional costs related to asset impairments ($3.8 million) and
integrating the operations of companies that previously merged with the Company
($9.6 million) were incurred and recorded during fiscal 1998. During fiscal
1997, the Company recorded mergers-related charges





associated with the PCI and Owen mergers ($46.2 million) and additional
integration costs related to the Pyxis and Medicine Shoppe mergers ($4.7
million). During fiscal 1996, the Company recorded charges ($49.2 million) to
reflect the estimated Medicine Shoppe and Pyxis mergers-related costs. See
further discussion in Note 2 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."
The Company classifies costs associated with a merger transaction as
"mergers-related costs." It should be noted that the amounts presented may not
be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.

     During fiscal 1998, the Company recorded a special charge of $8.6 million
related to the rationalization of its distribution operations. Approximately
$6.1 million related to asset impairments and lease exit costs resulting
primarily from the Company's decision to accelerate the consolidation of a
number of distribution facilities and the relocation to more modern facilities
for certain others. The remaining amount related to employee severance costs,
including approximately $2.0 million incurred in connection with the settlement
of a labor dispute with former employees of the Company's Boston distribution
facility, resulting in termination of the union relationship.

The following is a summary of the special charges incurred by the Company in the
last three fiscal years:




     The effects of the mergers-related costs and other special charges are
included in the reported net earnings of $247.1 million in fiscal 1998, $184.6
million in fiscal 1997 and $127.2 million in fiscal 1996 and in the reported
diluted earnings per common share of $2.22 in fiscal 1998, $1.69 in fiscal 1997
and $1.19 in fiscal 1996.

     The Company estimates that it will incur additional mergers-related costs
associated with the various mergers it has completed to date totaling
approximately $3.7 million in future periods (excluding the Scherer Merger-see
Note 16 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements") in order to
properly integrate operations and implement efficiencies with regard to, among
other things, information systems, customer systems, marketing programs and
administrative functions. Such amounts will be charged to expense when incurred.

     Asset impairments in fiscal 1997 include the write-off of a patent ($7.4
million) and the write-down of certain operating assets ($3.2 million) related
to MediTROL, Inc. ("MediTROL", a subsidiary acquired by the Company in the Owen
merger transaction) as a result of management's decision to merge the operations
of MediTROL into Pyxis and phase-out production of the separate MediTROL product
line.

     Exit and restructuring costs in fiscal 1996 include $15.6 million related
to cancellation of a long-term contract with a financing company related to the
servicing and financing of the accounts receivable from Pyxis customers at the
time of the Pyxis Merger (see Note 3 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements").

     The Company's trend with regard to acquisitions has been to expand its role
as a provider of services to the healthcare industry. This trend has resulted in
both expansion of its pharmaceutical distribution business and diversification
into related service areas which (a) complement the Company's core
pharmaceutical distribution business; (b) provide opportunities for the Company
to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired business; and (c)
generally generate higher margins as a percentage of operating revenue than
pharmaceutical distribution. As the healthcare industry continues to change, the
Company is constantly evaluating merger or acquisition candidates in
pharmaceutical distribution, as well as related sectors of the healthcare
industry that would expand its role as a service provider; however, there can be
no assurance that it will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or
consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are
entered into or consummated, additional mergers-related costs would be incurred
by the Company.

     INTEREST EXPENSE. The decrease in interest expense of $5 million in fiscal
1998 compared to fiscal 1997 is primarily due to extinguishment of the Company's
$100 million 8% Notes on March 1, 1997. The increase in other income for fiscal
1998 compared to fiscal 1997 of $3.6 million is primarily due to higher
investment income. This is in part due to better asset management. During fiscal
1998, $61.9 million of cash was generated (including $143.1 million from
operations) compared to use of $69.0 million of cash during fiscal 1997.

     Interest expense for fiscal 1997 decreased by $2.6 million compared to the
prior year. This decrease is attributable to the extinguishment of the Company's
$100 million 8% Notes on March 1, 1997 and lower interest rates during fiscal
1997 compared to fiscal 1996. In addition, various outstanding debt instruments
utilized by PCI prior to the merger were extinguished after the merger was
consummated. Partially offsetting this decrease in fiscal 1997 is the impact of
the issuance of $150 million 6% Notes due 2006, in a public offering in January
1996.

     As discussed below under "Liquidity and Capital Resources," the Company
issued $150 million of 6.25% Notes in July 1998 and assumed additional debt as
part of its acquisition of Scherer on August 7, 1998.

     PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES. The Company's provision for income taxes
relative to pretax earnings was 39%, 41% and 44% for fiscal years 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively. The fluctuation in the tax rate is primarily due to the
impact of recording certain non-deductible mergers-related costs during various
periods. In addition, the reduction in the state effective tax rate as a result
of the change in the Company's business mix impacted the tax rate for fiscal
year 1997.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -------------------------------

     Working capital increased to $1,384.5 million at June 30, 1998 from
$1,097.7 million at June 30, 1997. This increase included $61.9 million of cash
generated in fiscal 1998, as well as additional investments in merchandise
inventories and trade receivables of $459.3 million and $154.0 million,
respectively. Offsetting the increases in working capital was an increase in
accounts payable of $486.4 million. Increases in merchandise inventories reflect
the higher level of business volume in pharmaceutical distribution activities,
especially in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998 when distribution revenue grew
31% over the same period in the prior year. The increase in trade receivables is



consistent with the Company's revenue growth (see "Operating Revenue" above).
The change in accounts payable is due to the timing of inventory purchases and
related payments.

     On July 13, 1998, the Company issued $150 million of 6.25% Notes due 2008,
the proceeds of which will be used for working capital needs due to growth in
the Company's business. As part of its acquisition of Scherer on August 7, 1998,
the Company has assumed approximately $212 million in long-term debt. The
Company currently has the capacity to issue $250 million of additional long-term
debt pursuant to a shelf debt registration statement filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission (see Note 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements"). The Company extinguished $100 million of long-term debt during
fiscal 1997.

     Property and equipment, at cost, increased by $71 million in fiscal 1998.
The increase in property and equipment included additional investments in
management information systems and customer support systems. The Company has
several operating lease agreements for the construction of new facilities. See
further discussion in Note 9 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements."

     Shareholders' equity increased to $1,625.2 million at June 30, 1998 from
$1,334.7 million at June 30, 1997, primarily due to net earnings of $247.1
million and the investment of $50.0 million by employees of the Company through
various stock incentive plans.

       The Company has line-of-credit agreements with various bank sources
aggregating $503 million, of which $95 million is represented by committed
line-of-credit agreements and the balance is uncommitted. The Company had $23.9
million outstanding under these lines at June 30, 1998.

     The Company believes that it has adequate capital resources at its disposal
to fund currently anticipated capital expenditures, business growth and
expansion, and current and projected debt service requirements, including those
related to business combinations. See "Other" below.

OTHER
- -----

     SUBSEQUENT BUSINESS COMBINATIONS. On May 17, 1998, the Company announced
that it had entered into a definitive merger agreement with Scherer. The Scherer
merger transaction was completed on August 7, 1998, and will be accounted for as
a pooling-of-interests for financial reporting purposes. In the merger, the
Company issued approximately 22.8 million Common Shares to Scherer stockholders
and Scherer's outstanding stock options were converted into options to purchase
approximately 2.4 million Common Shares. The Company has assumed approximately
$212 million in long-term debt as part of its acquisition of Scherer. The
Company expects to record a merger-related charge to reflect transaction and
other costs incurred as a result of the Scherer merger in the first quarter of
fiscal 1999. Additional merger-related costs associated with integrating the
separate companies and instituting efficiencies will be charged to expense in
subsequent periods when incurred. The total amount of the merger-related charges
to be recognized in connection with the Scherer merger is estimated to be
between $35 and $40 million, after tax (see Note 16 of "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements").

     TERMINATED MERGER. On August 24, 1997, the Company and Bergen announced
that they had entered into a definitive merger agreement (as subsequently
amended by the parties on March 16, 1998), pursuant to which a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company would be merged with and into Bergen (the "Bergen
Merger Agreement"), which was subsequently approved by both companies'
shareholders on February 20, 1998. On March 9, 1998, the FTC filed a complaint
in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia seeking a
preliminary injunction to halt the proposed merger. On July 31, 1998, the
District Court granted the FTC's request for an injunction to halt the proposed
merger. On August 7, 1998, the Company and Bergen jointly terminated the Bergen
Merger Agreement. In accordance with the terms of the Bergen Merger Agreement,
its termination gave rise to an obligation for the Company to reimburse Bergen
for $7 million of transaction costs. Additionally, the termination of the Bergen
Merger Agreement will cause the costs incurred by the Company (that would not
have been deductible had the proposed merger been consummated) to become tax
deductible, resulting in a tax benefit of $12.2 million. The obligation to
reimburse Bergen and the additional tax benefit have been reflected in the
consolidated financial statements in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended
June 30, 1998 (see Notes 2 and 17 of "Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements").

     YEAR 2000 PROJECT. The Company utilizes computer technologies throughout
its business to effectively carry out its day-to-day operations. Computer
technologies include both information technology in the form of hardware and
software, as well as embedded technology in the Company's facilities and
equipment. Similar to most companies, the Company must determine whether its
systems are capable of recognizing and processing date sensitive information




properly as the year 2000 approaches. The Company is utilizing a multi-phased
concurrent approach to address this issue. The phases included in the Company's
approach are the awareness, assessment, remediation, validation and
implementation phases. The Company has completed the awareness phase of its
project. Furthermore, the Company has nearly completed the assessment phase and
is well into the remediation phase. The Company is actively correcting and
replacing those systems which are not year 2000 ready in order to ensure the
Company's ability to continue to meet its internal needs and those of its
suppliers and customers. The Company currently intends to substantially complete
the remediation, validation and implementation phases of the year 2000 project
prior to June 30, 1999. This process includes the testing of critical systems to
ensure that year 2000 readiness has been accomplished. The Company currently
believes it will be able to modify, replace, or mitigate its affected systems in
time to avoid any material detrimental impact on its operations. If the Company
determines that it may be unable to remediate and properly test affected systems
on a timely basis, the Company intends to develop appropriate contingency plans
for any such mission-critical systems at the time such determination is made.
While the Company is not presently aware of any significant exposure that its
systems will not be properly remediated on a timely basis, there can be no
assurances that all year 2000 remediation processes will be completed and
properly tested before the year 2000, or that contingency plans will
sufficiently mitigate the risk of a year 2000 readiness problem. An interruption
of the Company's ability to conduct its business due to a year 2000 readiness
problem could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

     The Company estimates that the aggregate costs of its year 2000 project
will be approximately $20 million, including costs already incurred. A
significant portion of these costs are not likely to be incremental costs, but
rather will represent the redeployment of existing resources. This reallocation
of resources is not expected to have a significant impact on the day-to-day
operations of the Company. Total costs of approximately $5 million were incurred
by the Company for this project during fiscal 1998, of which approximately $1.4
million represented incremental expense. The anticipated impact and costs of the
project, as well as the date on which the Company expects to complete the
project, are based on management's best estimates using information currently
available and numerous assumptions about future events. However, there can be no
guarantee that these estimates will be achieved and actual results could differ
materially from those plans. Based on its current estimates and information
currently available, the Company does not anticipate that the costs associated
with this project will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in future
periods.

     The Company has initiated formal communications with its significant
suppliers, customers, and critical business partners to determine the extent to
which the Company may be vulnerable in the event that those parties fail to
properly remediate their own year 2000 issues. The Company has taken steps to
monitor the progress made by those parties, and intends to test critical system
interfaces, as the year 2000 approaches. The Company will develop appropriate
contingency plans in the event that a significant exposure is identified
relative to the dependencies on third-party systems. While the Company is not
presently aware of any such significant exposure, there can be no guarantee that
the systems of third-parties on which the Company relies will be converted in a
timely manner, or that a failure to properly convert by another company would
not have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company is currently
evaluating the year 2000 readiness of Scherer, the Company's newest subsidiary
acquired as of August 7, 1998. As such, the above discussion does not reflect
the impact of Scherer.

     RECENTLY ISSUED FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS. In June 1997, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 130 ("SFAS 130"), "Reporting Comprehensive Income," which will
require adoption no later than the Company's fiscal quarter ending September 30,
1998. This new statement defines comprehensive income as "all changes in equity
during a period, with the exception of stock issuances and dividends." The new
pronouncement establishes standards for the reporting and display of
comprehensive income and its components in the financial statements.

     In June 1997, the FASB also issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131 ("SFAS 131") "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information," which will require adoption no later than fiscal 1999.
SFAS 131 requires companies to define and report financial and descriptive
information about its operating segments. It also establishes standards for
related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas, and major
customers.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133 ("SFAS 133"), "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities," which will require adoption no later than the Company's fiscal
quarter ending September 30, 1999. This new statement requires companies to
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet
and measure such instruments at fair value.



     In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") issued Statement of Position 98-1 ("SOP 98-1"), "Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," which will
require adoption no later than the beginning of the Company's fiscal year ending
June 30, 1999. This new statement provides guidance on accounting for costs of
computer software developed or obtained for internal use.

     Adoption of these statements is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company's consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A:   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

         Not applicable.

ITEM 8:    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         Independent Auditors' Reports
         Financial Statements:
         Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Fiscal Years Ended
           June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
         Consolidated Balance Sheets at June 30, 1998 and 1997
         Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the Fiscal
           Years Ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Fiscal Years Ended June
           30, 1998, 1997 and 1996
         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements





INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Shareholders and Directors of Cardinal Health, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cardinal Health,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended June 30, 1998. Our audits also included the
consolidated financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14. These
consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and consolidated
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We did not audit the financial
statements of Owen Healthcare, Inc. ("Owen") and of Pyxis Corporation ("Pyxis"),
both wholly owned subsidiaries of Cardinal Health, Inc., for the year ended June
30, 1996. The combined financial statement amounts of Owen and Pyxis represent
combined revenue and net income of approximately 5% and 34%, respectively, of
the consolidated amounts for the year ended June 30, 1996. These statements were
audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us, and our
opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Owen and Pyxis, is
based solely on the reports of such other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the reports of
other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of the other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Cardinal Health, Inc. and
subsidiaries at June 30, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 1998
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.



/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Columbus, Ohio
August 12, 1998




                Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

Board of Directors
Cardinal Health, Inc.

We have audited the consolidated statements of income, shareholder's equity, and
cash flows of Pyxis Corporation for the year ended June 30, 1996 (not included
herein). These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated results of operations and cash flows of
Pyxis Corporation for the year ended June 30,1996, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.


                                                           /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
                                                           ERNST & YOUNG LLP


San Diego, California
August 2, 1996




                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                        ---------------------------------


To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Owen Healthcare, Inc.


In our opinion, the consolidated statements of income, of stockholders' equity
and of cash flows of Owen Healthcare, Inc. and its subsidiaries (not presented
separately herein) present fairly, in all material respects, the results of
their operations and their cash flows for the year ended November 30, 1995, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These financial
statements are the responsibility of Owen Healthcare, Inc. management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS  LLP

Houston, Texas
January 30, 1997




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                    (In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)



        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)





        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)


        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Cardinal Health, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") is a provider of
services to the healthcare industry offering an array of value-added
pharmaceutical distribution services and pharmaceutical-related products and
services to a broad base of customers. The Company distributes a broad line of
pharmaceuticals, surgical and hospital supplies, therapeutic plasma and other
specialty pharmaceutical products, health and beauty care products, and other
items typically sold by hospitals, retail drug stores, and other healthcare
providers. The Company also operates a variety of related healthcare service
businesses, including Pyxis Corporation ("Pyxis") (which develops, manufactures,
leases, sells and services point-of-use pharmacy systems which automate the
distribution and management of medications and supplies in hospitals and other
healthcare facilities); Medicine Shoppe International, Inc. ("Medicine Shoppe")
(a franchisor of apothecary-style retail pharmacies); PCI Services, Inc. ("PCI")
(an international provider of integrated packaging services to pharmaceutical
manufacturers); Owen Healthcare, Inc. ("Owen") (a provider of pharmacy
management and information services to hospitals); and MediQual Systems, Inc.
("MediQual") (a developer and provider of clinical information systems). See
"Basis of Presentation" below. The Company is currently operating in one
business segment, primarily in the continental United States.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts
of all majority-owned subsidiaries and all significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. In addition, the consolidated financial
statements give retroactive effect to the mergers with Medicine Shoppe on
November 13, 1995, Pyxis on May 7, 1996, PCI on October 11, 1996 and Owen on
March 18, 1997 (see Note 2). Such business combinations were accounted for under
the pooling-of-interests method.

     The Company's fiscal year end is June 30 and Owen's fiscal year end was
November 30. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996, the consolidated financial
statements combine the Company's fiscal year ended June 30, 1996 with the
financial results for Owen's fiscal year ended November 30, 1995. For the fiscal
year ended June 30, 1997, the consolidated financial statements combine the
Company's fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 with Owen's financial results for the
period of June 1, 1996 to June 30, 1997 (excluding Owen's financial results for
December 1996 in order to change Owen's November 30 fiscal year end to June 30).
Due to the change in Owen's fiscal year from November 30 to conform with the
Company's June 30 fiscal year end, Owen's results of operations for the periods
from December 1, 1995 through May 31, 1996 and the month of December 1996 will
not be included in the combined results of operations but are reflected as an
adjustment in the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity.

     On February 18, 1998, the Company completed a merger with MediQual (the
"MediQual Merger"). The MediQual Merger was accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests. Because the impact of the MediQual Merger was not
significant on a historical basis, prior period financial statements have not
been restated. MediQual's financial information for all periods beginning with
March 1, 1998, has been included in the Company's consolidated financial results
for fiscal 1998.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual amounts may differ from these estimated amounts.

CASH EQUIVALENTS

     The Company considers all liquid investments purchased with a maturity of
three months or less to be cash equivalents. The carrying value of cash
equivalents approximates their fair value.

RECEIVABLES

     Trade receivables are primarily comprised of amounts owed to the Company
through its pharmaceutical wholesaling activities and are presented net of an
allowance for doubtful accounts of $34.2 million and $35.0 million at June 30,
1998 and 1997, respectively.


                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The Company provides financing to various customers. Such financing
arrangements range from one year to ten years, at interest rates which generally
fluctuate with the prime rate. The financings may be collateralized, guaranteed
by third parties or unsecured. Finance notes and accrued interest receivable are
$66.6 million and $52.5 million at June 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively (the
current portion was $29.4 million and $12.1 million, respectively), and are
included in other assets. These amounts are reported net of an allowance for
doubtful accounts of $6.4 million and $8.2 million at June 30, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

MERCHANDISE INVENTORIES

     Substantially all merchandise inventories (81% in 1998 and 87% in 1997) are
stated at lower of cost, using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method, or
market. If the Company had used the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method of
inventory valuation, which approximates current replacement cost, inventories
would have been higher than reported at June 30, 1998, by $54.6 million and at
June 30, 1997, by $69.6 million.

     The Company continues to consolidate locations, automate selected
distribution facilities and invest in management information systems which
achieve efficiencies in inventory management processes. As a result of the
facility and related inventory consolidations, and the operational efficiencies
achieved in fiscal 1998 and 1997, the Company had partial inventory liquidations
in certain LIFO pools which reduced the LIFO provision by approximately $2.3
million and $2.0 million, respectively.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization
for financial reporting purposes are computed using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the assets which range from three to forty
years, including capital lease assets which are amortized over the terms of
their respective leases. Amortization of capital lease assets is included in
depreciation and amortization expense. Certain software costs related to
internally developed or purchased software are capitalized and amortized using
the straight-line method over the useful lives, not exceeding five years. At
each balance sheet date, the Company assesses the recoverability of its
long-lived property, based on a review of projected undiscounted cash flows
associated with these assets.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

     Goodwill and other intangibles primarily represent intangible assets
related to the excess of cost over net assets of subsidiaries acquired.
Intangible assets are being amortized using the straight-line method over lives
which range from ten to forty years. Accumulated amortization was $23.7 million
and $20.3 million at June 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively. At each balance sheet
date, a determination is made by management to ascertain whether there is an
indication that the intangible assets may have been impaired based on
undiscounted operating cash flows for each subsidiary.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Company records distribution revenue when merchandise is shipped to its
customers and the Company has no further obligation to provide services related
to such merchandise. Along with other companies in its industry, the Company has
begun reporting as revenue bulk deliveries made to customers' warehouses,
whereby the Company acts as an intermediary in the ordering and subsequent
delivery of pharmaceutical products. All years presented have been reclassified
to include these bulk deliveries as revenue (previously only the service fees
related to such bulk deliveries were reported as revenues; such service fees
were not significant in any period presented). Fluctuations in bulk deliveries
result largely from circumstances that are beyond the control of the Company,
including consolidation within the chain drugstore industry, decisions by chains
to either begin or discontinue warehousing activities, and changes in policy by
manufacturers related to selling directly to chain drugstore customers. Due to
the insignificant margins generated through bulk deliveries, fluctuations in
their amount have no significant impact on operating earnings.


                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


     Revenue is recognized from sales-type leases of point-of-use pharmacy
systems when the systems are delivered, the customer accepts the system, and the
lease becomes noncancellable. Unearned income on sales-type leases is recognized
using the interest method. Sales of point-of-use pharmacy systems are recognized
upon delivery and customer acceptance. Revenue for systems installed under
operating lease arrangements is recognized over the lease term as such amounts
become receivable according to the provisions of the lease.

     The Company earns franchise and origination fees from its apothecary-style
pharmacy franchisees. Franchise fees represent monthly fees based upon
franchisees' sales and are recognized as revenue when they are earned.
Origination fees from signing new franchise agreements are recognized as revenue
when the new franchise store is opened. Master franchise origination fees are
recognized as revenue when all significant conditions relating to the master
franchise agreement have been satisfied by the Company.

     Pharmacy management revenues are recognized as the related services are
rendered according to the contracts established. A fee is charged under such
contracts through either a monthly management fee arrangement, a capitated fee
arrangement or a portion of the hospital charges to patients. Under certain
contracts, fees for management services are guaranteed by the Company not to
exceed stipulated amounts or have other risk-sharing provisions. Revenues are
adjusted to reflect the estimated effects of such contractual guarantees and
risk-sharing provisions.

     Packaging revenues are recognized from services provided upon the
completion of such services.

     System license revenues are recognized upon shipment of the system to the
customer. The portion of the license fee related to system maintenance is
deferred and recognized over the annual maintenance period.

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

     The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128
("SFAS No. 128"), "Earnings per Share," in the quarter ended December 31, 1997.
In accordance with the provisions of the Standard, all prior periods presented
have been restated to comply with SFAS No. 128. Basic earnings per Common Share
("Basic") is computed by dividing net earnings (the numerator) by the weighted
average number of Common Shares outstanding during each period (the
denominator). Diluted earnings per Common Share is similar to the computation
for Basic, except that the denominator is increased by the dilutive effect of
stock options outstanding, computed using the treasury stock method, and in
fiscal 1996 by the dilutive effect of convertible debentures ($270,000 impact on
diluted net earnings and an increase of 717,000 diluted shares).

     Excluding dividends paid by all entities with which the Company has merged,
the Company paid cash dividends per Common Share of $0.105, $0.09, $0.08 for the
fiscal years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

STOCK SPLITS

     On October 29, 1996, the Company declared a three-for-two stock split which
was effected as a stock dividend and distributed on December 16, 1996 to
shareholders of record on December 2, 1996. All share and per share amounts
included in the consolidated financial statements, except the Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders' Equity, have been adjusted to retroactively reflect
this stock split.

     On August 12, 1998, the Company declared a three-for-two stock split which
will be effected as a stock dividend and distributed on October 30, 1998 to
shareholders of record at the end of business on October 9, 1998. Giving effect
retroactive to the stock split, the diluted earnings per Common Share for the
fiscal years ended June 30, 1998, 1997 and 1996 will be $1.48, $1.13 and $0.80
per Common Share, respectively.



                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


2.    BUSINESS COMBINATIONS, MERGERS-RELATED COSTS AND OTHER SPECIAL CHARGES

     In the merger transaction with MediQual, which was completed on February
18, 1998, the Company issued approximately 576,000 Common Shares to MediQual
shareholders and MediQual's outstanding stock options were converted into
options to purchase approximately 24,000 Common Shares of the Company. The
historical cost of MediQual's assets combined was approximately $7.3 million and
the total liabilities assumed were approximately $1.6 million. The impact of the
MediQual Merger, on a historical basis, is not significant. Accordingly, prior
period historical financial statements have not been restated for the MediQual
Merger. MediQual's financial results have been included in the consolidated
financial results of the Company since March 1, 1998.

     On May 15, 1998, the Company completed a business combination with
Comprehensive Reimbursement Consultants, Inc. ("CRC"), which was accounted for
as a purchase. The aggregate purchase price, which was paid primarily in cash,
was approximately $6 million, which included the issuance of Common Shares
valued at approximately $1.3 million. The financial results of CRC are included
in the consolidated financial results of the Company since the date of the
acquisition. Had the purchase occurred at the beginning of fiscal 1997,
operating results on a pro forma basis would not have been significantly
different.

     During fiscal 1998, the Company recorded mergers-related charges associated
with transaction costs incurred in connection with the MediQual Merger ($2.3
million) and transaction costs incurred in connection with the proposed merger
transaction with Bergen Brunswig Corporation ("Bergen") ($33.4 million) which
was terminated subsequent to year-end (see Note 17). In accordance with the
terms of the Bergen Merger Agreement, its termination gave rise to an obligation
for the Company to reimburse Bergen for $7 million of transaction costs.
Additional mergers-related costs, related to asset impairments ($3.8 million)
and integrating the operations of companies that previously merged with the
Company ($9.6 million), were incurred and recorded during fiscal 1998.

     During fiscal 1998, the Company recorded a special charge of $8.6 million
($5.2 million, net of tax) related to the rationalization of its distribution
operations. Approximately $6.1 million related to asset impairments and lease
exit costs resulting primarily from the Company's decision to accelerate the
consolidation of a number of distribution facilities and the relocation to more
modern facilities for certain others. The remaining amount related to employee
severance costs, including approximately $2.0 million incurred in connection
with the final settlement of a labor dispute with former employees of the
Company's Boston distribution facility, resulting in termination of the union
relationship.

     On March 18, 1997, the Company completed a merger transaction with Owen
(the "Owen Merger"). The Owen Merger was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests
business combination and the Company issued approximately 7.7 million Common
Shares to Owen shareholders and Owen's outstanding stock options were converted
into options to purchase approximately 0.7 million Common Shares. During fiscal
1997, the Company recorded costs of approximately $31.1 million ($22.4 million,
net of tax) related to the Owen Merger. These costs include $13.1 million for
transaction and employee-related costs associated with the merger, $13.2 million
for asset impairments ($10.6 million of which related to MediTROL, as discussed
below), and $4.8 million related to other integration activities, including the
elimination of duplicate facilities and certain exit and restructuring costs. At
the time of the Owen Merger, Owen had a wholly owned subsidiary, MediTROL, that
manufactured, marketed, sold and serviced point-of-use medication distribution
systems similar to Pyxis. Upon consummation of the Owen Merger, management
committed to merge the operations of MediTROL into Pyxis, and phase-out
production of the separate MediTROL product line. As a result of this decision,
a MediTROL patent ($7.4 million) and certain other operating assets ($3.2
million) were written off as impaired.

       On October 11, 1996, the Company completed a merger transaction with PCI
(the "PCI Merger"). The PCI Merger was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests
business combination and the Company issued approximately 3.1 million Common
Shares to PCI shareholders and PCI's outstanding stock options were converted
into options to purchase approximately 0.2 million Common Shares. During fiscal
1997, the Company recorded costs totaling approximately $15.1 million ($11.4
million, net of tax) related to the PCI Merger. These costs include $13.8
million for transaction and employee-related costs associated with the PCI
Merger (including $7.6 million for retirement benefits and incentive fees to two
executives of PCI, which vested and became payable upon consummation of the
merger) and $1.3 million related to other integration activities, including exit
costs.


                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


       In addition to the mergers-related costs recorded in fiscal 1997 for the
Owen and PCI Mergers (as discussed above), the Company recorded $4.7 million
($2.8 million, net of tax) related to integrating the operations of companies
that previously merged with the Company.

     On May 7, 1996, the Company completed a merger transaction with Pyxis (the
"Pyxis Merger"). The Pyxis Merger was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests
business combination, and the Company issued approximately 22.6 million Common
Shares to Pyxis shareholders. In addition, Pyxis' outstanding stock options were
converted into options to purchase approximately 2.3 million Common Shares.
During fiscal 1996, the Company recorded costs totaling approximately $42.0
million ($30.6 million, net of tax) related to the Pyxis Merger. These costs
include $25.4 million for transaction and employee-related costs associated with
the merger (including $7.6 million for vested stay bonuses covering
substantially all Pyxis employees), $15.6 million related to certain exit and
lease-termination costs (pertaining to cancellation of a long-term contract with
a financing company in connection with the servicing of the accounts receivable
from Pyxis customers at the time of the Pyxis Merger, see Note 3), and $1.0
million related to asset impairments and other integration activities.

     On November 13, 1995, the Company completed a merger transaction with
Medicine Shoppe (the "Medicine Shoppe Merger"). The Medicine Shoppe Merger was
accounted for as a pooling-of-interests business combination and the Company
issued approximately 9.6 million Common Shares to Medicine Shoppe shareholders.
In addition, Medicine Shoppe's outstanding stock options were converted into
options to purchase approximately 0.2 million Common Shares. During fiscal 1996,
the Company recorded costs totaling approximately $7.2 million ($6.4 million,
net of tax) related to the Medicine Shoppe Merger. These costs include $6.3
million for transaction and employee-related costs associated with the Medicine
Shoppe Merger and $0.9 million related to other integration activities.

     The effect of the various mergers-related costs and other special charges
recorded in fiscal 1998 was to reduce reported net earnings by $35.8 million to
$247.1 million and to reduce reported diluted earnings per Common Share by $0.32
per share to $2.22 per share. The effect of the various mergers-related costs
recorded in fiscal 1997 was to reduce reported net earnings by $36.6 million to
$184.6 million and to reduce reported diluted earnings per Common Share by $0.34
per share to $1.69 per share. The effect of the various mergers-related costs
recorded in fiscal 1996 was to reduce reported net earnings by $36.9 million to
$127.2 million and to reduce reported diluted earnings per Common Share by $0.34
per share to $1.19 per share.

     Certain mergers-related costs are based upon estimates, and actual amounts
paid may ultimately differ from these estimates. If additional costs are
incurred, such items will be expensed as incurred.

     During fiscal 1996, the Company completed three business combinations which
were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. These business
combinations were primarily related to the Company's point-of-use pharmacy
systems and pharmacy management services. The aggregate purchase price, which
was paid primarily in cash, including fees and expenses, was $58.8 million.
Liabilities of the operations assumed were approximately $41.7 million,
consisting primarily of debt of $29.7 million. Had the purchases occurred at the
beginning of fiscal 1996, operating results for fiscal 1996 on a pro forma basis
would not have been significantly different.



                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


3.   LEASES

Sales-Type Leases

     The Company's sales-type leases are for terms generally ranging up to five
years. Lease receivables are generally collateralized by the underlying
equipment. The components of the Company's net investment in sales-type leases
are as follows (in thousands):



     Future minimum lease payments to be received pursuant to sales-type leases
are as follows at June 30, 1998 (in thousands):

Lease Related Financing Arrangements

     Prior to the Pyxis Merger, Pyxis had financed its working capital needs
through the sale of certain lease receivables to a non-bank financing company.
In March 1994, Pyxis entered into a five-year financing and servicing agreement
with the financing company, whereby the financing company agreed to purchase a
minimum of $500 million of Pyxis' lease receivables under certain conditions,
provided that the total investment in the lease receivables at any one time did
not exceed $350 million. As of June 30, 1998, $198 million of lease receivables
were owned by the financing company. The aggregate lease receivables sold under
this arrangement totaled approximately $382 million and $312 million at June 30,
1998 and 1997, respectively. As a result of the Pyxis Merger, the Company
entered into negotiations with the financing company to amend and terminate this
arrangement. In June 1997, the agreement with the financing company was amended
to modify financing levels over the remaining term of the agreement and to
terminate the lease portfolio servicing responsibilities of the financing
company. In June 1998, the agreement with the financing company was further
amended to terminate Pyxis' obligation to sell lease receivables to the
financing company. The Company made provision for the estimated costs associated
with the exiting of this arrangement at the time of the Pyxis Merger (see Note
2).



                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


4.   NOTES PAYABLE, BANKS

     The Company has entered into various unsecured, uncommitted line-of-credit
arrangements which allow for borrowings up to $408 million at June 30, 1998, at
various money market rates. At June 30, 1998, $23.9 million, at a weighted
average interest rate of 7.2%, was outstanding under such arrangements and $22.2
million, at a weighted average interest rate of 6.26% was outstanding at June
30, 1997. In addition, the Company has revolving credit agreements, which have a
maturity of less than one year, with seven banks. These credit agreements are
renewable on a quarterly basis and allow the Company to borrow up to $95 million
(none of which was in use at June 30, 1998). The Company is required to pay a
commitment fee at the annual rate of 0.125% on the average daily unused amounts
of the total credit allowed under the revolving credit agreements. The total
available but unused lines of credit at June 30, 1998 was $479 million.

5.   LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

      Long-term obligations consist of the following (in thousands):


     The 6% Notes represent unsecured obligations of the Company, are not
redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to a sinking fund. Issuance
costs of approximately $1.3 million incurred in connection with the offering are
being amortized on a straight-line basis over the period the 6% Notes will be
outstanding. The 6.5% Notes represent unsecured obligations of the Company, are
not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to a sinking fund. Issuance
costs of approximately $860,000 incurred in connection with these Notes are
being amortized on a straight-line basis over the period the 6.5% Notes will be
outstanding.

     During fiscal 1996, holders of $10 million, 9.53% convertible subordinated
notes due 2002, originally issued by Owen, converted the notes into the
equivalent of approximately 1.1 million Common Shares. Additionally, Owen repaid
$34.8 million of debt with proceeds from a common stock offering. If the
previously mentioned conversion and retirement of debt had occurred at the
beginning of all periods presented, the changes to diluted earnings per share
would not have been material.

     Certain long-term obligations are collateralized by property and equipment
of the Company with an aggregate book value of approximately $31.8 million at
June 30, 1998.



                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Maturities of long-term obligations for future fiscal years are as follows (in
thousands):


     On July 13, 1998, the Company issued $150 million of 6.25% Notes due 2008 ,
the proceeds of which will be used for working capital needs due to growth in
the Company's business. The 6.25% Notes represent unsecured obligations of the
Company, are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to a sinking
fund. Subsequent to issuing the 6.25% Notes, the Company has the capacity to
issue $250 million of additional long-term debt pursuant to a shelf debt
registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In
addition, as part of its merger transaction with R.P. Scherer Corporation
("Scherer") on August 7, 1998, the Company has assumed approximately $212
million in long-term debt.


6.   ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts of cash and equivalents, trade receivables, accounts
payables, notes payable-banks and other accrued liabilities at June 30, 1998 and
1997, approximate their fair value because of the short-term maturities of these
items.

     The estimated fair value of the Company's long-term obligations was $280.2
million and $270.1 million as compared to the carrying amounts of $279.4 million
and $283.9 million at June 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The fair value of
the Company's long-term obligations is estimated based on the quoted market
prices for the same or similar issues and the current interest rates offered for
debt of the same remaining maturities.

7.   INCOME TAXES

      The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands):







                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


     A reconciliation of the provision based on the Federal statutory income tax
rate to the Company's effective income tax rate is as follows:


     Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between financial
reporting and tax reporting bases of assets and liabilities, and operating loss
and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes. The components of the deferred
income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):


The above amounts are classified in the consolidated balance sheets as follows
(in thousands):


     The Company had Federal net operating loss carryforwards of $95.4 million
and $91.0 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of $95.1 million
and $56 million as of June 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively. A valuation
allowance of $6.4 million and $2.7 million at June 30, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, has been provided for the state net operating loss carryforwards,
as utilization of such carryforwards within the applicable statutory periods is
uncertain. The Company's Federal tax operating loss carryforwards and a portion
of the state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to a change in
ownership limitation calculation under Internal Revenue Code Section 382.




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


After application of the valuation allowance described above, the Company
anticipates no limitations will apply with respect to utilization of these
assets. The Federal net operating loss carryforward begins expiring in 2001 and
the state net operating loss carryforward began expiring in 1994. Expiring state
net operating loss carryforwards and the required valuation allowances have been
adjusted annually.

8.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS

     Substantially all of the Company's non-union employees are eligible to be
enrolled in Company-sponsored contributory profit sharing and retirement savings
plans which include features under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code,
and provide for Company matching and profit sharing contributions. The Company's
contributions to the plans are determined by the Board of Directors subject to
certain minimum requirements as specified in the plans.

     Qualified union employees are covered by multiemployer defined benefit
pension plans under the provisions of collective bargaining agreements. Benefits
under these plans are generally based on the employee's years of service and
average compensation at retirement.

     Prior to the Owen Merger, Owen established an Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(the "ESOP"). Costs for the ESOP debt service were recognized for additional
contributions to satisfy ESOP obligations and plan operating expenses. As of
January 2, 1996, contributions to the ESOP were suspended and all participants
became fully vested.

      The total expense for employee retirement benefit plans was as follows (in
thousands):


9.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     The future minimum rental payments for operating leases having initial or
remaining noncancellable lease terms in excess of one year at June 30, 1998 are
as follows (in thousands):


     Rental expense relating to operating leases was approximately $24.1
million, $23.0 million and $23.4 million in fiscal 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively. Sublease rental income was not material for any period presented
herein.

       The Company has entered into operating lease agreements with several
banks for the construction of various new facilities. The initial terms of the
lease agreements extend through April 2003, with optional five year renewal
periods. In the event of termination, the Company is required to either purchase
the facility or vacate the property and make reimbursement for a portion of the
uncompensated price of the property cost. The instruments provide for maximum
fundings of $181.2 million, which is the total estimated cost of the
construction projects. As of June 30, 1998, the 




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

amount expended was $108.2 million. Currently, the Company's minimum annual
lease payments under the agreements are approximately $7.0 million.

     As of June 30, 1998, amounts outstanding on customer notes receivable sold
with full recourse to a commercial bank totaled approximately $13.4 million. The
Company also has outstanding guarantees of indebtedness and financial assistance
commitments which totaled approximately $4.2 million at June 30, 1998. Upon
consummation of the Scherer Merger on August 7, 1998 (see Note 16), the Company
guaranteed an additional $292 million, representing the outstanding long-term
debt and available credit facilities of Scherer.

     The Company becomes involved from time-to-time in litigation incidental to
its business. In November 1993, Cardinal, Whitmire, five other pharmaceutical
wholesalers, and twenty-four pharmaceutical manufacturers were named as
defendants in a series of purported class action antitrust lawsuits alleging
violations of various antitrust laws associated with the chargeback pricing
system. Trial has been set for the prescription drug litigation to begin
September 14, 1998. The Company believes that the allegations set forth against
Cardinal and Whitmire in these lawsuits are without merit.

     In January 1995, the Company was named as a defendant in a lawsuit alleging
violations of various antitrust statutes and that the Company had tortiously
interfered with another pharmaceutical wholesaler's contractual realtions. The
trial date for this action has been set for November 2, 1998. The Company
believes that allegations made against it in this litigation are without merit.

     Although the ultimate resolution of litigation cannot be forecast with
certainty, the Company does not believe that the outcome of any pending
litigation would have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

10.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     At June 30, 1998, the Company's authorized capital shares consisted of (a)
300,000,000 Class A common shares, without par value; (b) 5,000,000 Class B
common shares, without par value; and (c) 500,000 non-voting preferred shares
without par value. At June 30, 1997, the Company's authorized capital shares
consisted of (a) 150,000,000 Class A common shares, without par value; (b)
5,000,000 Class B common shares, without par value; and (c) 500,000 non-voting
preferred shares without par value. The Class A common shares and Class B common
shares are collectively referred to as Common Shares. Holders of Class A and
Class B common shares are entitled to share equally in any dividends declared by
the Company's Board of Directors and to participate equally in all distributions
of assets upon liquidation. Generally, the holders of Class A common shares are
entitled to one vote per share and the holders of Class B common shares are
entitled to one-fifth of one vote per share on proposals presented to
shareholders for vote. Under certain circumstances, the holders of Class B
common shares are entitled to vote as a separate class. Only Class A common
shares were outstanding as of June 30, 1998 and 1997.

11.  CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK AND MAJOR CUSTOMERS

     The Company invests cash in deposits with major banks throughout the world
and in high quality short-term liquid instruments. Such investments are made
only in instruments issued or enhanced by high quality institutions. These
investments mature within three months and the Company has not incurred any
related losses.

     The Company's trade receivables, finance notes and accrued interest
receivable, and lease receivables are exposed to a concentration of credit risk
with customers in the retail and healthcare sectors. Credit risk can be affected
by changes in reimbursement and other economic pressures impacting the acute
care portion of the healthcare industry. However, such credit risk is limited
due to supporting collateral and the diversity of the customer base, including
its wide geographic dispersion. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations
of its customers' financial conditions and maintains reserves for credit losses.
Such losses historically have been within the Company's expectations.

     During fiscal 1998, the Company's two largest customers individually
accounted for 12% of operating revenue and 62% of bulk deliveries, respectively.
During fiscal 1997, the Company's two largest customers individually accounted
for 13% of operating revenue and 62% of bulk deliveries, respectively. During
fiscal 1996, the Company's 




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


two largest customers individually accounted for 11% of operating revenue and
70% of bulk deliveries, respectively. Trade receivables due from these two
customers aggregated approximately 16% and 23% of total trade receivables at
June 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

12.  STOCK OPTIONS AND RESTRICTED SHARES

     The Company maintains stock incentive plans (the "Plans") for the benefit
of certain officers, directors and employees. Options granted generally vest
over three years and are exercisable for periods up to ten years from the date
of grant at a price which equals fair market value at the date of grant.

       The Company accounts for the Plans in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25,
under which no compensation cost has been recognized. Had compensation cost for
the Plans been determined consistent with the Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123 ("SFAS 123"), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the
Company's net income and diluted earnings per Common Share would have been
reduced by $4.5 million and $0.04 per share, respectively, for fiscal 1998, $2.3
million and $0.02 per share, respectively, for fiscal 1997 and $6.4 million and
$0.07 per share, respectively, for fiscal 1996.

       Because the SFAS 123 method of accounting has not been applied to options
granted prior to July 1, 1995, the resulting pro forma compensation cost may not
be representative of that to be expected in future years.

     The following summarizes all stock option transactions for the Company
(excluding Whitmire, see below) under the plans from June 30, 1995 through June
30, 1998, giving retroactive effect to conversions of options in connection with
merger transactions and stock splits (in thousands, except per share amounts):


     The weighted average fair value of options granted during fiscal 1998, 1997
and 1996 was $19.92, $14.48 and $14.50, respectively. The fair values of the
options granted were estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions for grants in fiscal 1998:
risk-free interest rate of 5.53%, expected life of 3 years, expected volatility
of 0.27% and dividend yield of 0.16%. The fair values of the options granted
were estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model
with the following assumptions for grants in both fiscal 1997 and 1996:
risk-free interest rate of 6.23%, expected life of 3 years, expected volatility
of 0.25% and dividend yield of 0.17%.



                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


     Information relative to stock options outstanding as of June 30, 1998:


     As of June 30, 1998, there remained approximately 650,000 additional shares
available to be issued pursuant to the Plans.

     In connection with the Whitmire Merger, outstanding Whitmire stock options
granted to current or former Whitmire officers or employees were automatically
converted into options ("Cardinal Exchange Options") to purchase an aggregate of
approximately 2.6 million additional Common Shares. Under the terms of their
original issuance, the exercise price for substantially all of the Cardinal
Exchange Options is remitted to certain former investors of Whitmire. Cardinal
Exchange Options to purchase 0.3 million Common Shares, with an average option
price of $1.37 were exercised in fiscal 1996. At June 30, 1996, all Cardinal
Exchange Options had been exercised.

     The market value of restricted shares awarded by the Company is recorded in
the "Other" component of shareholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets. The compensation awards are amortized to expense over the period
in which participants perform services, generally one to seven years. As of June
30, 1998 approximately 0.2 million shares remained restricted and subject to
forfeiture.


13.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     The following selected quarterly financial data (in thousands, except per
share amounts) for fiscal 1998 and 1997 has been restated to reflect the
pooling-of-interests business combinations as discussed in Note 2. Earnings per
Common Share have been restated in accordance with SFAS 128 (see Note 1).




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



     On August 12, 1998, the Company declared a three-for-two stock split which
will be effected as a stock dividend and distributed on October 30, 1998 to
shareholders of record at the close of business on October 9, 1998 (see Note 1).
Giving retroactive effect to the stock split, the earnings per Common Share for
the selected quarterly financial data in fiscal 1998 and 1997 will be restated
as follows upon distribution on October 30, 1998:



     As more fully discussed in Note 2, mergers-related costs and special
charges were recorded in various quarters in fiscal 1998 and 1997. The following
table summarizes the impact of such costs on net earnings and diluted earnings
per share in the quarters in which they were recorded:


     Giving retroactive effect to the stock split declared on August 12, 1998,
(see above and Note 1), the impact on diluted net earnings per Common Share of
mergers-related costs and special charges recorded in various quarters in fiscal
1998 and 1997 will be restated as follows upon distribution on October 30, 1998:




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


14.  SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     Income tax and interest payments for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1998,
1997 and 1996 were as follows (in thousands):



     See Notes 2 and 5 for additional information regarding non cash investing
and financing activities.

15.  RECENTLY ISSUED FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standard Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130 ("SFAS 130"), "Reporting
Comprehensive Income," which will require adoption no later than the Company's
fiscal quarter ending September 30, 1998. This new statement defines
comprehensive income as "all changes in equity during a period, with the
exception of stock issuances and dividends." The new pronouncement establishes
standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components
in the financial statements.

      In June 1997, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 131 ("SFAS 131"), "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information," which will require adoption no later than fiscal 1999. SFAS 131
requires companies to define and report financial and descriptive information
about its operating segments. It also establishes standards for related
disclosure about products and services, geographic areas and major customers.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133 ("SFAS 133"), "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities," which will require adoption no later than the Company's fiscal
quarter ending September 30, 1999. This new statement requires companies to
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet
and measure such instruments at fair value.

     In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") issued Statement of Position 98-1 ("SOP 98-1"), "Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," which will
require adoption no later than the beginning of the Company's fiscal year ending
June 30, 1999. This new statement provides guidance on accounting for costs of
computer software developed or obtained for internal use.

     Adoption of these statements is not expected to have a material impact on
the Company's consolidated financial statements.


16.  SUBSEQUENT BUSINESS COMBINATION

     On May 17, 1998, the Company announced that it had entered into a
definitive merger agreement with Scherer (the "Scherer Merger"). This merger
transaction was completed on August 7, 1998, and will be accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests for financial reporting purposes. In the Scherer Merger,
the Company issued approximately 22.8 million Common Shares to Scherer
stockholders and Scherer's outstanding stock options were converted into options
to purchase approximately 2.4 million Common Shares. The Company has assumed
approximately $212 million in long-term debt as part of the Scherer Merger. The
Company expects to record a merger-related charge to reflect transaction and
other costs incurred as a result of the Scherer Merger in the first quarter of
fiscal 1999. The Company is currently assessing the appropriate reporting
periods to be combined and the potential 




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

financial implications of conforming the accounting policies of the Company and
Scherer, in connection with the restatement of the historical financial
statements, as a result of the Scherer Merger.


17.   TERMINATED MERGER AGREEMENT

     On August 24, 1997, the Company and Bergen announced that they had entered
into a definitive merger agreement (as subsequently amended by the parties on
March 16, 1998), pursuant to which a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
would be merged with and into Bergen (the "Bergen Merger Agreement"), which was
subsequently approved by both companies' shareholders on February 20, 1998. On
March 9, 1998, the FTC filed a complaint in the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia seeking a preliminary injunction to halt the proposed
merger. On July 31, 1998, the District Court granted the FTC's request for an
injunction to halt the proposed merger. On August 7, 1998, the Company and
Bergen jointly terminated the Bergen Merger Agreement. In accordance with the
terms of the Bergen Merger Agreement, its termination gave rise to an obligation
for the Company to reimburse Bergen for $7 million of transaction costs.
Additionally, the termination of the Bergen Merger Agreement will cause the
costs incurred by the Company (that would not have been deductible had the
merger been consummated) to become tax deductible, resulting in a tax benefit of
$12.2 million. The obligation to reimburse Bergen and the additional tax benefit
are reflected in the consolidated financial statements in the fourth quarter of
the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998.




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

ITEM 9:    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10:   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     In accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the information
called for in this Item 10 relating to Directors is incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement, to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), pursuant to Regulation 14A of
the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "Exchange Act"), relating to the Company's Annual Meeting of
Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting") under the caption "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS."
Certain information relating to Executive Officers of the Company appears at
pages 7, 8 and 9 of this Form 10-K, which is hereby incorporated by reference.

ITEM 11:   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     In accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the information
called for by this Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
Definitive Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Exchange Act, relating to the Company's Annual Meeting under the caption
"EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" (other than information set forth under the caption
"Compensation Committee Report").

ITEM 12:   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     In accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the information
called for by this Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
Definitive Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Exchange Act, relating to the Company's Annual Meeting under the caption
"SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT."

ITEM 13:   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     In accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the information
called for by this Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
Definitive Proxy Statement, to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Exchange Act, relating to the Company's Annual Meeting under the caption
"CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS."



                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


ITEM 14:   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)(1) The following financial statements are included in Item 8 of this report:



(a)(2) The following Supplemental Schedule is included in this report:


    All other schedules not listed above have been omitted as not applicable or
because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or in notes thereto.

(a)(3) Exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K:












  --------------

  (1)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
         Form S-4 (No. 333-56655) and incorporated herein by reference.

  (2)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
         (No. 0-12591) filed with the Commission on March 17, 1998, and
         incorporated herein by reference.

  (3)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 (No. 0-12591) and
         incorporated herein by reference.

  (4)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 (No. 0-12591) and incorporated
         herein by reference.

  (5)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994 (No. 0-12591) and
         incorporated herein by reference.

  (6)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
         filed with the SEC on April 21, 1997, and incorporated herein by
         reference.

  (7)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Amendment No. 2 to Form S-4
         Registration Statement (No. 333-30889), and incorporated herein by
         reference.

  (8)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994 (No. 0-12591) and incorporated
         herein by reference.

  (9)    Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1995 (No. 0-12591) and
         incorporated herein by reference.

  (10)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Post-Effective Amendment No.
         1 on Form S-8 to Form S-4 Registration Statement (No. 33-63283-01) and
         incorporated herein by reference.

  (11)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1996 (No. 0-12591) and incorporated
         herein by reference.

  (12)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996 (No. 0-12591) and
         incorporated herein by reference.

  (13)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended March 29, 1986 (No. 0-12591) and incorporated
         herein by reference.

  (14)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended March 28, 1987 (No. 0-12591) and incorporated
         herein by reference.

  (15)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
         Form S-1 (No. 2-84444) and incorporated herein by reference.

  (16)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
         for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1993 (No. 0-12592) and incorporated
         herein by reference.

  (17)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Post-Effective Amendment No.
         1 on Form S-8 to Form S-4 Registration Statement (No. 333-56655-01) and
         as an exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
         quarter ended December 31, 1995 (No. 0-12591) and incorporated herein
         by reference.

  (18)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 1993 (No. 0-12591) and
         incorporated herein by reference.

  (19)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997 (No. 0-12591) and
         incorporated herein by reference.

  (20)   Included as an exhibit to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
         10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997 (No. 0-12591) and
         incorporated herein by reference.



  *        Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

On May 20, 1998, the Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K under Item 5,
which reported that it had entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger by and
among the Registrant, GEL Acquisition Corp., and R.P. Scherer Corporation.

On June 29, 1998, the Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K under Item
7, under which it filed Exhibit 12, Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
Charges.






                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                  CARDINAL HEALTH, INC.


September 1, 1998                                 By: /s/ Robert D. Walter
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                  Robert D. Walter, Chairman and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:




                     CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)




(1)   During fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 recoveries of amounts provided for or
      written off in prior years were $3,444,000, $410,000 and $332,000,
      respectively. Increases in the reserves as a result of acquisitions
      accounted for as purchases were $254,000 and $1,120,000 in fiscal 1998 and
      1996.

(2) Write-off of uncollectible accounts.


