
10-K
CARDINAL HEALTH 10-K



                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549


                                  FORM 10-K



                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For The Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1994           Commission File Number 0-12591
                          -------------                                  -------

                            CARDINAL HEALTH, INC.

               (formerly known as Cardinal Distribution, Inc.)
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


                   OHIO                                   31-0958666
                   ----                                   ----------
      (State or other jurisdiction                    (I.R.S. Employer
    of incorporation or organization)                 Identification No.)


655 METRO PLACE SOUTH, SUITE 925, DUBLIN, OHIO               43017
- - ----------------------------------------------               -----
  (Address of principal executive office)                 (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (614) 761-8700
                                                    --------------

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                      COMMON SHARES (WITHOUT PAR VALUE)
                      ---------------------------------
                               (Title of Class)


          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                        Yes  X                  No
                           -----                  -----
          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

          The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the Registrant as of August 19, 1994, was approximately $1,097,875,000.

          The number of Registrant's Common Shares outstanding as of August 19,
1994, was as follows:


            common shares, without par value           36,254,409
            Class B common shares, without par value    2,971,375

          Documents Incorporated by Reference: None









                                     PART I


ITEM 1:  BUSINESS
- - -----------------

GENERAL
- - -------

         The Company is a national, full-service wholesaler distributing a
broad line of pharmaceuticals, surgical and hospital supplies, health and
beauty care products, and other items typically sold by hospitals, retail drug
stores, and other health care providers.  An important component of the
Company's distribution activities is the broad range of support services it
offers to its customers, which are designed to assist the Company's customers
in maintaining and improving their market positions.  These support services
foster strong relationships between the Company and its customers by
positioning the Company as a valuable resource capable of offering the
centralized services which are increasingly important in today's competitive
market place.  The Company believes that in most instances it would not be
economically feasible for its customers to develop and maintain these services
independently.

         Cardinal Health, Inc. is a holding company with sixteen principal
operating subsidiaries:  Whitmire Distribution Corporation ("Whitmire"); James
W. Daly, Inc. ("Daly"); Ellicott Drug Company ("Ellicott"); Cardinal Syracuse,
Inc. ("Syracuse"); Marmac Distributors, Inc.  ("Marmac"); Bailey Drug Company
("Bailey"); Ohio Valley-Clarksburg, Inc. ("Ohio Valley"); Chapman Drug Company
("Chapman"); Solomons Company ("Solomons"); Cardinal Florida, Inc. ("Florida");
Cardinal Mississippi, Inc. ("Mississippi"); Humiston-Keeling, Inc. ("H-K");
Behrens Inc.  ("Behrens"); National PharmPak Services, Inc. ("PharmPak");
National Specialty Services, Inc. ("NSS"); and PRN Services, Inc. ("PRN").
These separate operating subsidiaries are sometimes collectively referred to as
the "Cardinal Health" companies.  As used in this report, the "Registrant" and
the "Company" refers to Cardinal Health, Inc. and subsidiaries, unless the
context requires otherwise.  Prior to February 7, 1994, the Company was known
as Cardinal Distribution, Inc.  The term "Cardinal," as used herein, refers to
Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries prior to the business combination
with Whitmire on February 7, 1994.

         The Company distributes products to hospitals, drug stores, alternate
care centers, and the pharmacy departments of supermarkets and mass
merchandisers located throughout the continental United States.  The Company
obtains its products from many different suppliers, the largest of which
accounted for approximately 7% (by dollar volume) of its net sales in fiscal
1994.  The Company's five largest suppliers accounted for approximately 29% (by
dollar volume) of its net sales during fiscal 1994.  The loss of certain
pharmaceutical or medical/surgical product suppliers could adversely affect the
Company's business because many suppliers are the sole source of certain
pharmaceuticals and medical/surgical products under exclusive patents or
processes.  The Company has agreements with many of its suppliers which
generally require the Company to maintain an adequate quantity of the
supplier's products in inventory.  These agreements typically have a term of
one year and may be canceled by either the Company or the supplier, without
cause, upon specified prior notice. Management believes that the Company's
relationships with its suppliers are excellent.

SUPPORT SERVICES
- - ----------------

         As a full-service wholesale distributor, the Company complements its
distribution activities by offering a broad range of value-added support
services to assist customers and suppliers in maintaining and improving their
market positions and to strengthen the Company's role in the channel of
distribution.  These support services include computerized order entry and
order confirmation systems, customized invoicing, generic sourcing programs,
product movement and management reports, consultation on store operation and
merchandising, and customer training.



         Most customers transmit merchandise orders directly to the Company's
data processing system through computerized order entry devices.  The Company's
proprietary software systems feature customized databases specially designed to
help its customers order more efficiently, contain costs, and monitor their
purchases which are covered by group contract purchasing arrangements.  Upon
receipt of the customer's order at a distribution center, the Company's
warehouse management system processes the order and provides customized price
information to facilitate the customer's pricing of items.  Customer orders are
routinely processed for next-day delivery, enabling the Company's customers to
minimize the size and carrying cost of their own inventories.  In addition, the
Company's AccuNet(R), Otis(R), and Network(TM) proprietary software systems
facilitate primary supply relationships between the Company and its customers
and enable the Company's customers to reduce their costs.  These systems
provide a variety of information which assist the customer to identify the best
price available under group purchasing contracts with pharmaceutical
manufacturers, maintain formulary compliance, and better manage their own
inventories.  Over 2,800 of these systems have been placed with hospital,
managed care, and chain drug customers located throughout the United States.


SPECIALTY WHOLESALING
- - ---------------------

         In addition to the comprehensive support services provided in
connection with its core drug wholesaling activities, the Company also offers
diversified "specialty wholesaling" enhancements to its customers and
suppliers.  For example, the Company's PharmPak subsidiary operates a
pharmaceutical repackaging program for both independent and chain customers.
In January 1992, the Company formed National Specialty Services, Inc. ("NSS").
NSS is a distributor of therapeutic plasma products and other specialty
pharmaceuticals to hospitals and other managed care facilities on a nationwide
basis through the utilization of telemarketing and direct mail programs.  In
December 1993, the Company expanded its specialty wholesaling business through
the acquisition of PRN Services, Inc., a distributor of pharmaceuticals and
medical supplies to oncologists and oncology clinics across the United States.
These specialty wholesaling activities are part of the Company's overall
strategy, which combines competitive pricing with diversified offerings in
order to enhance the profitability of its core business and that of its
customers and suppliers



CUSTOMERS
- - ---------

         The Company regularly supplies pharmaceuticals, surgical and hospital
supplies, health and beauty care products, and other items to hospitals,
independent and chain drug stores, alternate care centers, and pharmacy
departments of supermarkets and mass merchandisers located throughout the
continental United States.  In fiscal 1994, approximately 50% of the Company's
net sales were to hospitals and managed care facilities, approximately 23% of
the Company's net sales were to chain drug stores and the pharmacy departments
of supermarkets and mass merchandisers, approximately 21% of the Company's net
sales were to independently owned drug stores, and approximately 6% of the
Company's net sales were to specialty wholesaling customers.

COMPETITION
- - -----------

         The Company's markets and those of its customers are highly
competitive.  The Company competes directly with other national and regional
wholesalers, direct selling manufacturers, mail-order houses, and specialty
distributors on the basis of price, breadth of product lines, marketing
programs, and support services.  The Company's businesses have narrow profit
margins and accordingly, the Company's earnings depend significantly on its
ability to distribute a large volume and variety of products efficiently and to
provide quality support services.


RECENT ACQUISITIONS
- - -------------------

         Since March 31, 1993, the Company has completed five business
combinations.  On May 4, 1993, the Company purchased Solomons Company, a
Savannah, Georgia based drug wholesaler serving customers located primarily in
the southeastern region of the United States.  On December 17, 1993, the
Company merged with PRN (see "Specialty Wholesaling" above).  On February 7,
1994, the Company completed its largest business combination to date when it
merged with Whitmire Distribution Corporation, a Folsom, California based drug
wholesaler (the "Whitmire Merger").  The majority of Whitmire's sales were
concentrated in the western and central United States, complementing Cardinal's
former concentration of sales in the eastern United States and positioning the
combined company to service both customers and suppliers on a national basis.
Whitmire's customer base was weighted toward hospital, managed care, and large
retail chain customers, complementing Cardinal's rapidly expanding presence in
these customer categories and Cardinal's well-developed programs and services
for independent retail pharmacies.

         The Company has completed two additional business combinations since
the Whitmire Merger.  On July 1, 1994, the Company purchased Humiston-Keeling,
Inc., a Calumet City, Illinois based drug wholesaler serving customers located
primarily in the upper midwest region of the Unites States.  On July 18, 1994,
the Company completed its merger with Behrens Inc., a Waco, Texas based drug
wholesaler serving customers located primarily in Texas and adjoining states.

         The Company continually evaluates possible candidates for acquisition
and intends to continue to seek opportunities to expand its healthcare
distribution operations and services.  For additional information concerning
the acquisitions described above see Notes 3 and 16 of "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements."

EMPLOYEES
- - ---------

         At August 1, 1994, the Company had approximately 3,500 employees, of
which approximately 300 are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The
Company considers its employee relations to be good.


REGULATORY MATTERS
- - ------------------

         The Company, as a distributor of prescription drugs, including certain
controlled substances, is required to register for permits and/or licenses with
appropriate federal and state agencies and comply with certain operating and
security standards.  In addition, the Company is subject to the Prescription
Drug Marketing Act of 1987, an amendment to the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act
which requires each state to regulate certain aspects of the purchase and
distribution of prescription drugs.  The Company believes that it is in
substantial compliance with all federal and state statutes and regulations
applicable to its activities.





INDUSTRY CONSIDERATIONS
- - -----------------------

         An aging population, new product introductions, and a higher
concentration of distribution through wholesalers are all factors which have
created favorable growth patterns for the drug wholesaling industry.  At the
same time, it is also a very competitive industry undergoing rapid change and
consolidation.  A number of factors have in the recent past affected and are
expected to continue to affect the business equation for the Company,
including: (a) a greater mix of higher volume customers, where the lower cost
of distribution and better asset management and cash flow enable the Company to
offer lower pricing to the customer; (b) reduced inventory gains associated
with lower drug price inflation, which are partially offset by corresponding
decreases in last-in, first-out (LIFO) earnings charges and inventory carrying
costs; (c) increased merchandising funding from manufacturers, particularly
related to the growth in generic pharmaceuticals; (d) improved selling, general
and administrative cost absorption due to significant productivity investments
and the operating leverage associated with sales growth and acquisitions; and
(e) increased sales and earnings from specialty distribution services.

         In response to cost containment pressure from private and governmental
payers and the current focus on healthcare reform in the United States,
customers are consolidating into super-regional and national affiliations while
manufacturers are under increased pressure to slow the rate of drug price
inflation and to seek more cost-effective methods of marketing and distributing
their products.  In this regard, drug wholesalers, including the Company, will
be challenged to service customers over a wider geographic base, offer
manufacturers innovative marketing and distribution services, and provide both
manufacturers and customers with the common system and reporting links
necessary to streamline the efficient flow of product and information among
distribution partners.  Another consideration associated with healthcare reform
is the wide variety of legislation which has been proposed at both the federal
and state level.  The Company is unable to predict which, if any, of the
current legislative proposals may be adopted or what impact, if any, such
legislation would have upon the Company's business.



ITEM 2:  PROPERTIES
- - -------------------

         Because of the nature of the Company's business, office and
warehousing facilities are operated in widely dispersed locations across the
United States.  At August 19, 1994, the Company distributed products from forty
principal operating facilities located in twenty-six states, eight of which
are owned by the Company and the balance of which are leased.  The Company's
principal executive offices consist of leased office space located at 655 Metro
Place South, Dublin, Ohio.  The Company considers its operating properties to
be in satisfactory condition and adequate to meet its present needs.  However,
the Company expects to make further additions, improvements, and consolidations
to its properties  as the Company's business continues to expand.

         For certain financial information regarding the Company's office and
warehousing facilities, see Notes 5 and 9 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements."



ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- - --------------------------

         In November 1993, Cardinal and Whitmire  were each named as defendants
in a series of purported class action antitrust lawsuits which were later
consolidated and transferred by the Judicial Panel for Multi District
Litigation to the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois (the "Brand Name Prescription Drug Litigation").  Subsequent to the
consolidation, a new consolidated complaint ("amended complaint") was filed
which included allegations that the wholesaler defendants, including Cardinal
and Whitmire, conspired with manufacturers to inflate prices by using a
chargeback pricing system.  Cardinal and Whitmire have filed an answer denying
the allegations in the amended complaint.  Subsequent to the filing of the
answer, the wholesaler defendants filed a motion for summary judgment.  The
Court has not yet ruled on the motion for summary judgment.  In addition to the
federal court case described above, Whitmire has been named as a defendant in a
series of state court cases alleging similar claims under various state laws
regarding the sale of Brand Name Prescription Drugs.  The Company believes that
both the federal and state court allegations against Cardinal and Whitmire are
without merit, and it intends to contest such allegations vigorously.

         The Company also becomes involved from time-to-time in ordinary
routine litigation incidental to its business, none of which is expected to
have any material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.

ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- - ------------------------------------------------------------

         None.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- - ------------------------------------

         There is hereby incorporated by reference information with respect to
the executive officers of the Registrant set forth in Item 10 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.


                                    PART II



ITEM 5:  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON SHARES AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------
MATTERS
- - -------

        The Company's common shares, without par value (the "Class A Common
Shares") are quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "CDIC."  
Application has been made, however, to list the Class A Common
Shares on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CAH" and such listing
is expected to occur in September 1994.

        The following table reflects, for the periods indicated, the range of
the reported high and low last sale prices of the Class A Common Shares as
reported on the Nasdaq National Market, and the per share dividends
declared thereon.  The information in the table has been adjusted to reflect
all stock splits and stock dividends and also to reflect the
Company's decision, as of March 1, 1994, to change its fiscal year end from
March 31 to June 30.



 
        At August 19, 1994, there were approximately 1,150 shareholders of
record of the Company's Class A Common Shares.

        In connection with the Whitmire Merger in February 1994, the Company
issued Class B common shares, without par value (the "Class B Common
Shares"),  to a former Whitmire stockholder. Holders of Class B Common Shares
are entitled to one-fifth of one vote per share in the election of Directors
and upon all matters on which shareholders are entitled to vote.  At August 19,
1994, all 2,971,375 Class B Common Shares issued and outstanding were held by
one holder. There is no established public trading market for the Class B
Common Shares.

        All holders of Class A Common Shares and Class B Common Shares
(collectively, "Common Shares") participate equally in dividends when and as
declared by the Company's Board of Directors.  The Company paid a 25% stock
dividend on June 30, 1994, to effect a five-for-four stock split of the
Company's Common Shares.  The Company anticipates that it will continue to pay
quarterly cash dividends in the future.  However, the payment and amount of
future dividends remain within the discretion of the Company's Board of
Directors and will depend upon the Company's future earnings, financial
condition, capital requirements, and other factors.




ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- - --------------------------------

        The following selected consolidated financial data of the Company
has  been prepared giving retroactive effect to the business
combination with Whitmire Distribution Corporation ("Whitmire")
on February 7, 1994 (the "Whitmire Merger" ), which has been accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests transaction.  The term "Cardinal," as used herein, refers
to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries prior to the Whitmire Merger.
Cardinal's fiscal year has historically ended on March 31, while Whitmire's
fiscal year has ended on the Saturday closest to the end of June.  On March 1,
1994, the Company changed its fiscal year end from March
31 to June 30.  As a result, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1993, and
prior years, the information presented is derived from consolidated financial
statements which combine data from Cardinal for the fiscal years ended March
31, 1993, March 31, 1992, March 31, 1991, and March 31, 1990, with data from
Whitmire for fiscal years ended July 3, 1993, June 27, 1992, June 29, 1991, and
June 30, 1990, respectively.  For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, and the
twelve months ended June 30, 1993, the information presented is derived from
consolidated financial statements which combine data from Cardinal for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, and the twelve months ended June 30, 1993,
with data from Whitmire for the fiscal years ended June 30, 1994, and July 3,
1993.   Due to the different fiscal year ends of the merged companies,
Whitmire's results of operations for the three months ended July 3, 1993, have
been included in both the twelve months ended June 30, 1993, and the fiscal
year ended March 31, 1993.  The selected consolidated financial data below
should be read in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial
statements and related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 






        Net earnings and cash dividends per Common Share have been adjusted to 
reflect all stock dividends and stock splits.

        Amounts reflect business combinations in fiscal 1994, the twelve 
months ended June 30, 1993, fiscal 1992 and 1991.

        Fiscal 1994, the twelve months ended June 30, 1993, and fiscal 1993 and 
1992 amounts reflect the impact of Unusual Items (See Note 2 of "Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements").







ITEM 7: MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
- - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OF OPERATIONS
- - -------------

        Management's discussion and analysis presented below has been
prepared giving retroactive effect to the pooling-of-interests business
combination with Whitmire on February 7, 1994 (see Note 3 of
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements").  The term "Cardinal," as used
herein, refers to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries prior to the
Whitmire Merger.  Cardinal's fiscal year has historically ended on March 31,
while Whitmire's fiscal year has ended on the Saturday closest to the end of
June. On March 1, 1994, the Company changed its fiscal
year end from March 31 to June 30.  Accordingly, the Company's consolidated
financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, and for the
twelve months ended June 30, 1993, combine the information for Cardinal and
Whitmire as of June 30, 1994, and for each of the two years then ended.  The
Company's consolidated financial statements for earlier fiscal years combine
information for Cardinal's March year end with Whitmire's subsequent fiscal
June year end.  The discussion and analysis presented below should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes
appearing in this report.










        NET SALES.  Net sales in fiscal 1994 increased 25% compared to fiscal
1993 due to internal business growth of 20%, the merger with PRN Services, Inc.
in December 1993, and the acquisition of Solomons Company in May 1993 (see Note
3 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements").  The 26% increase in net
sales in fiscal 1993 compared to fiscal 1992 was due to internal business
growth of 22%, sales resulting from the acquisition of Chapman Drug Company in
October 1991 (see Note 3 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"), and
the full consolidation of the Company's repackaging operation.  The internal
business growth in both fiscal 1994 and fiscal 1993 resulted primarily from the
addition of new customers (partially as a result of expanded sales
territories), increased sales to existing customers, and price increases.

        GROSS MARGIN.  As a percentage of net sales, gross margin declined to
6.13% in fiscal 1994 from 6.42% in fiscal 1993 and 6.98% in fiscal 1992.  The
decreases in the gross margin percentages were due to (a) lower selling margin
rates, reflecting a more competitive market and a greater mix of higher volume
customers, where a lower cost of distribution and better asset management and
cash flow enabled the Company to offer lower selling margins, and (b) reduced
purchasing gains associated with lower drug price inflation.  The reduced
purchasing gains were partially offset by a lower LIFO charge.  The Company
expects the decline in gross margin rates to continue, but at a more moderate
rate.  

        SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.  Selling, general, and
administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales have improved consistently
from 5.01% in fiscal 1992 to 4.40% in fiscal 1993 and 4.03% in fiscal 1994.
The improvements are due primarily to economies associated with the Company's
significant sales growth, particularly with major customers where support costs
are generally lower, and to productivity improvements.

        UNUSUAL ITEMS.  In February 1994, the Company recorded a nonrecurring
charge to reflect estimated Whitmire Merger costs of approximately $35.9
million ($28.2 million net of tax), including (a) fees and other transaction
costs related to the combination, and (b) other nonrecurring costs expected to
be incurred in connection with the integration of Cardinal's and Whitmire's
business operations.  These estimated costs include approximately $7 million
for investment banking, legal, accounting, and other related transaction fees
and costs associated with the combination; $13 million for corporate
restructuring and distribution rationalization; $6 million for integration of
information systems; and $2 million for restructuring Whitmire's revolving
credit agreement.  Of these estimated costs, approximately $7 million pertain
to the revaluation of certain operating assets and $2 million pertain to
employee relocation, retraining and termination costs.  Certain of these
amounts are based on a preliminary estimate of costs to be incurred by the
Company, and actual costs may differ from such estimate.  At June 30, 1994, the
Company had incurred actual costs aggregating approximately $11.7 million
relative to the Whitmire Merger.  The current estimates of merger costs
ultimately to be incurred are not materially different than the amounts
originally recorded.

        During fiscal 1993, the Company received a termination fee of
approximately $13.5 million resulting from the termination by Durr-Fillauer
Medical, Inc. of its agreement to merge with the Company.  Also during fiscal
1993, the Company recorded nonrecurring charges totaling approximately $13.7
million, primarily related to the closing of certain non-core operations and
the rationalization, standardization and improvement of selected distribution
operations, information systems and support functions.  The charges included
the write-down of certain assets, moving costs and other costs associated with
the affected operations, and modification costs necessary to centralize and
standardize certain information systems and support functions. At June 30,
1994, the Company had incurred actual costs aggregating approximately $9.1
million related to these charges and expects most of the remaining amounts to
be incurred in fiscal 1995.  The modification of the terms of certain Whitmire
stock options in fiscal 1993 also resulted in a one-time stock option
compensation charge of approximately $5.2 million (see Note 11 of "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements").

        In fiscal 1992, the completion by Whitmire of certain equity
transactions resulted in the recording of an unusual expense of approximately
$2.0 million (see Note 11 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements").





        INTEREST EXPENSE.  The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 1994
compared to fiscal 1993 is due primarily to the following: (a) the conversion
of debt to equity following the call for redemption, effective July 2, 1993, of
the Company's $75 million face amount of 7.25% Convertible Debentures due 2015
(the "Subordinated Debentures") (see Note 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements"), and (b) reduced borrowings under Whitmire's revolving credit
agreements.  The reductions in interest expense as discussed above were
partially offset by (a) increased interest expense resulting from the sale by
the Company of $100 million of 6.5% Notes due 2004 (the "New Notes") on
February 23, 1994 (see Note 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"),
and (b) increased average short-term borrowings (see Note 4 of "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements").  The increased average short-term
borrowings were a result of (a) increased working capital requirements, (b) the
repayment of amounts outstanding under Whitmire's revolving credit agreements
at the time of the Whitmire Merger (see Note 5 of "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements"), and (c) the redemption of Whitmire's preferred stock
(see Note 10 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements").

        Additional interest expense recognized in fiscal 1993 compared to
fiscal 1992 relating to the issuance of the Company's $100 million 8% Notes due
1997 (the "Notes") on March 11, 1992, was primarily offset by (a) the use of
the proceeds of the Notes to reduce short-term borrowings, and (b) lower
average interest rates on amounts borrowed under Whitmire's revolving credit
agreements.  Fiscal 1992 interest expense also includes a charge of
approximately $1.8 million associated with the replacement of a 
Whitmire credit agreement (see Note 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements").

        The Company has entered into various interest rate swap agreements
which serve to hedge the Notes (see Note 5 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements").  The net effect of the swap agreements is that the Company
exchanged its 8% fixed rate position on the Notes for a fixed rate of 5.1% for
the period July 15, 1992, through March 1, 1993, a fixed rate of 6.5% for the
period March 2, 1993, through March 1, 1994, and, thereafter, a fixed rate of
8.1% through March 1, 1997 (the maturity date of the Notes).  In May 1993, two
of the offsetting swap agreements were canceled at no gain or loss to the
Company.

        PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES.  The Company's provision for income taxes
relative to pretax earnings increased significantly in fiscal 1994 compared to
fiscal 1993 due primarily to (a) certain nondeductible costs associated with
the Whitmire Merger recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 1994 (see Note 2 of
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"), (b) the reduction of income from
tax-advantaged investments, and (c) the 1993 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
Act's 1% tax rate increase enacted on August 11, 1993, retroactive to January
1, 1993.

        CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE.  Effective at the
beginning of fiscal 1993, Cardinal adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109 "Accounting for Income Taxes" (SFAS No. 109).  The cumulative
effect of adopting SFAS No. 109 ($10 million) by Cardinal has been reported as
a change in accounting principle retroactive to the beginning of fiscal 1993.
The $10 million cumulative effect recorded by Cardinal resulted primarily from
the fact that SFAS No. 109 modifies the accounting for business combinations
recorded using the purchase method.  The cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No.
109 by Whitmire was not material and has been included in the fiscal 1992
provision for income taxes, and not presented separately in the consolidated
statement of earnings.







LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

        Net working capital increased to $471.1 million at June 30, 1994, from
$440.7 million at March 31, 1993, and included increased investments in
merchandise inventories and trade receivables of $233.1 million and $92.5
million respectively, offset primarily by (a) an increase in accounts payable
of $219.7 million, (b) a reduction in cash and equivalents and marketable
securities of $49.1 million, and (c) an increase in notes payable-banks of
$25.0 million.  The increases in merchandise inventories and accounts payable
primarily reflect the timing of seasonal purchases and related payments.  The
increase in trade receivables was due primarily to increased sales (see "Net
Sales", above).  The decrease in cash and marketable securities and the
increase in notes payable-banks resulted primarily from (a) the increased
investments in merchandise inventories and trade receivables (net of the
increase in accounts payable) as described above, (b) the repayment of amounts
outstanding under Whitmire's revolving credit arrangements at the time of the
Whitmire Merger (approximately $120 million, including a prepayment penalty of
approximately $1.2 million), and (c) the redemption of Whitmire's preferred
stock (approximately $20.4 million).

        Long-term obligations decreased from $275.8 million at March 31, 1993,
to $210.1 million at June 30, 1994, due primarily to (a) the issuance by the
Company of additional Class A Common Shares upon the conversion of $74.9
million of the Subordinated Debentures, and (b) the repayment of amounts
outstanding under Whitmire's revolving credit arrangements, offset primarily by
the sale of the $100 million New Notes described above.

        Shareholders' equity increased to $368.5 million at June 30, 1994 from
$247.9 million at March 31, 1993 due primarily to (a) the issuance of
additional Class A Common Shares upon conversion of $74.9 million of the
Subordinated Debentures, offset by approximately $1.8 million of unamortized
debenture offering costs charged to shareholders' equity, (b) net earnings of
the Company of approximately $35.1 million in fiscal 1994 and net earnings of
approximately $7.8 million by Cardinal (exclusive of Whitmire) in the three
months ended June 30, 1993 (see Note 1 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements"), and (c) the issuance of approximately 1,062,000 Class A Common
Shares to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Solomons Company (see Note 3
of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"), offset primarily by (i) the
repurchase of approximately 725,000 Class A Common Shares owned by subsidiaries
of North American National Corporation (see Note 15 of "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements"), and (ii) dividends paid by the Company of approximately
$3.9 million in fiscal 1994.

        The Company has line-of-credit agreements with various bank sources
aggregating $321 million, of which $100 million is represented by committed
line-of-credit agreements and the balance is uncommitted.  The Company had
drawn upon $25 million of the available lines-of-credit at June 30, 1994,
leaving $296 million available under the Company's existing line-of-credit
agreements.

        On May 6, 1993, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission a Registration Statement for the public offering, from time-to-time,
of its debt securities (the "Debt Securities") issuable in one or more series
in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million.  On February 23,
1994, the Company sold $100 million of the New Notes (see Note 5 of "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements"), the net proceeds of which were used for
general corporate purposes, including the repayment of the bank lines of credit
incurred as part of the Whitmire Merger.  At June 30, 1994, $50 million of the
Debt Securities remain issuable.

        On August 17, 1994, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission a registration statement for an underwritten public offering of
5,250,000 Class A Common Shares.  Of the 5,250,000 shares, 1,600,000 are being
sold by the Company and 3,650,000 are being sold by certain shareholders of the
Company.  The underwriters have been granted an option to purchase up to
787,500 additional Class A Common Shares to cover overallotments, if any,
including up to 266,949 such shares from the Company.







        The Company believes that it has adequate capital resources at its
disposal (exclusive of the anticipated proceeds from the proposed public
offering of Class A Common Shares described above) to meet currently
anticipated capital expenditures, routine business growth and expansion, and
current and projected debt service, including the additional liquidity and
capital requirements associated with recent and prospective business
combinations (see Notes 3 and 16 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements").


ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
- - -----------------------------------------------------

        Independent Auditors' Reports

        Financial Statements:

        Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the Fiscal Year Ended
                June 30, 1994, Twelve Months Ended June 30, 1993,
                and Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 1993, and March 31, 1992
        Consolidated Balance Sheets at June 30, 1994, and March 31, 1993
        Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the Fiscal
                Years Ended June 30, 1994, March 31, 1993, and March 31, 1992
        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Fiscal Years Ended
                June 30, 1994, March 31, 1993, and March 31, 1992
        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements










INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Shareholders and Directors of Cardinal Health, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Cardinal Health, Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 30, 1994 and March 31, 1993,
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for the years ended June 30, 1994, March 31, 1993 and March 31,
1992. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
Index at Item 14.  These financial statements and financial statement schedule
are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedule based on our audits.  The consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule give retroactive effect to the
pooling-of-interests business combination of Cardinal Health, Inc. and Whitmire
Distribution Corporation on February 7, 1994, as described in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements.  We did not audit the balance sheet of
Whitmire Distribution Corporation as of July 3, 1993, or the related statements
of earnings, shareholders' equity and cash flows of Whitmire Distribution
Corporation for the years ended July 3, 1993 and June 27, 1992, which
statements reflect total assets of $451,855,000 as of July 3, 1993; net sales
of $2,666,829,000 and $2,033,067,000 for the years ended July 3, 1993 and June
27, 1992, respectively; and net earnings available for common shares before
cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $4,039,000 and $330,000
for the years ended July 3, 1993 and June 27, 1992, respectively.  Those
statements were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to
us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Whitmire
Distribution Corporation in the March 31, 1993 and 1992 financial statements,
is based solely on the report of such other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits and the report of other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Cardinal Health, Inc. and
subsidiaries at June 30, 1994 and March 31, 1993, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for the years ended June 30, 1994, March 31,
1993, and March 31, 1992 in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Also, in our opinion, such consolidated financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed its method of accounting for income taxes to conform with Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 by applying it retroactively effective
April 1, 1992.



DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Columbus, Ohio
August 16, 1994







                   Report of Independent Public Accountants


To the Board of Directors of
        Whitmire Distribution Corporation:

We have audited the balance sheet of Whitmire Distribution Corporation (a
Delaware corporation), as of July 3, 1993, and the related statements of
operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the two years in
the period ended July 3, 1993 (not presented herein).  These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Whitmire Distribution
Corporation as of July 3, 1993, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the two years in the period ended July 3, 1993, in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.




Arthur Andersen & Co.

Sacramento, California
September 3, 1993
(Except with respect to the matter discussed in Note 10, as to which date is
October 11, 1993.)








CARDINAL HEALTH INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
- - -------------------------------------







   
       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- - ------------------------------------------

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     The Company is a full service wholesaler distributing a broad line of
     pharmaceuticals, surgical and hospital supplies, health and beauty care
     products, and other items typically sold by hospitals, retail drug stores,
     and other health care providers.  The Company is currently operating in
     only one business segment.
        
     BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts
     of all majority-owned subsidiaries and all significant intercompany
     amounts have been eliminated.  The consolidated financial statements have
     been prepared to give retroactive effect to the pooling-of-interests
     business combination with Whitmire Distribution Corporation (the "Whitmire
     Merger") on February 7, 1994 (see Note 3).  The term "Cardinal," as used
     herein, refers to Cardinal Health, Inc. and its subsidiaries prior to the
     Whitmire Merger.  Cardinal's fiscal year has historically ended on March
     31, while Whitmire's fiscal year has ended on the Saturday closest to the
     end of June.  On March 1, 1994, the Company changed its fiscal year end
     from March 31 to June 30.  Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated
     financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, and for the
     twelve months ended June 30, 1993, combine the information for Cardinal
     and Whitmire as of June 30, 1994, and for each of the two years then
     ended. The accompanying consolidated financial statements for earlier
     fiscal years combine information for Cardinal's March year end with
     Whitmire's subsequent fiscal June year end.  The consolidated statement of
     earnings for the twelve months ended June 30, 1993, is unaudited and is
     presented for the purpose of supplemental analysis.
        
     Due to the different fiscal period ends of the merged companies, the
     results of Whitmire for the three months ended July 3, 1993, have been
     included in the consolidated statements of earnings for both the periods
     ended June 30, 1993, and March 31, 1993.  Cardinal's results of operations
     (exclusive of Whitmire) for the three months ended June 30, 1993, are not
     included in the consolidated statement of earnings but have been included
     as an adjustment in the consolidated statement of shareholders' equity.
     Such amounts, along with certain cash flow information, are summarized as
     follows (in thousands):


    
    
     CASH EQUIVALENTS
        
     The company considers all liquid investments purchased with a maturity of 
     three months or less to be cash equivalents.
        









  MARKETABLE SECURITIES

  Marketable securities are recorded at cost, which approximates market value.

  TRADE RECEIVABLES

  Trade receivables are presented net of the related allowance for doubtful
  accounts of approximately $21,594,000 and $13,428,000 at June 30, 1994, and
  March 31, 1993, respectively.

  MERCHANDISE INVENTORIES

  Substantially all merchandise inventories are stated at lower of cost,
  last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, or market.  If the Company had used the
  first-in, first-out (FIFO) method of inventory valuation, which approximates
  current replacement cost, inventories would have been higher than reported at
  June 30, 1994, by $61,852,000 and at March 31, 1993, by $55,374,000.  The
  impact of partial inventory liquidations in certain LIFO pools reduced the
  LIFO provision by approximately $2,500,000 in fiscal 1993.

  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

  Property and equipment are stated at cost.  Depreciation and amortization for
  financial reporting purposes are computed using the straight-line method
  over the estimated useful lives of the assets which range from three to forty
  years, including capital lease assets which are amortized over the terms of
  their respective leases.  Amortization of capital lease assets is included in
  depreciation and amortization expense.

  OTHER ASSETS

  Other assets primarily represent intangible assets related to the excess of
  cost over net assets of subsidiaries acquired and noncurrent deferred tax
  assets (see Note 7).  Intangible assets are being amortized using the
  straight-line method over lives which range from ten to forty years.
  Accumulated amortization was $16,571,000 and $15,369,000 at June 30, 1994,
  and March 31, 1993, respectively.  At each balance sheet date, a
  determination is made by management to ascertain whether the intangible
  assets have been impaired based on several criteria, including, but not
  limited to, sales trends, undiscounted operating cash flows, and other
  operating factors.

  SALES RECOGNITION

  The Company records sales when merchandise is delivered to its customers and
  the Company has no further obligation to provide services related to
  merchandise delivered.  Service fees related to bulk sales of pharmaceuticals
  are included in net sales.  Such amounts are not significant in fiscal 1994,
  1993 and 1992.

  INCOME TAXES

  Effective as of the beginning of fiscal 1993, Cardinal began accounting
  for income taxes under the liability method by adopting Statement of
  Financial Accounting Standards SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes"
  (SFAS No. 109).  The cumulative effect of adopting this statement
  ($10,000,000) has been reported as a change in accounting principle
  retroactive to the beginning of fiscal 1993.  The cumulative effect of
  adopting SFAS No. 109 by Whitmire was not material and has been included in
  the fiscal 1992 provision for income taxes, and not separately presented in
  the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  Prior to the adoption of
  SFAS No. 109, both Cardinal and Whitmire accounted for income taxes in
  accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 11.  



     CAPITAL STOCK

     The Company's authorized capital shares consist of:  (a) 60,000,000 common
     shares, without par value ("Class A Common Shares"), of which at June 30,
     1994, 34,862,835 were outstanding; (b) 5,000,000 Class B common shares,
     without par value ("Class B Common Shares"), of which at June 30, 1994,
     2,971,375 were outstanding; and (c) 500,000 non-voting preferred shares
     without par value ("Preferred Shares"), none of which has been issued. 
     The Class B Common Shares were issued to a former Whitmire stockholder in
     February 1994 in connection with the Whitmire Merger.  All of the  
     outstanding Class B Common Shares are held by one holder.
        
     All holders of Class A Common Shares and Class B Common Shares
     (collectively, "Common Shares") participate equally in dividends when and
     as declared by the Company's Board of Directors.  Holders of Class A
     Common Shares are entitled to one vote per share for the election of
     Directors and upon all matters on which shareholders are entitled to vote. 
     Holders of Class B Common Shares are entitled to one-fifth of one vote per
     share in the election of Directors and upon all matters which shareholders
     are entitled to vote.
        
     EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

     Primary earnings per Common Share are based on the weighted average number
     of Common Shares outstanding during each period and the dilutive effect of
     stock options and warrants from the date of grant computed using the
     treasury stock method.
        
     Fully diluted earnings per Common Share reflect:  (a) the dilutive effect
     of stock options and warrants from the date of grant computed using the
     treasury stock method; and (b) the full conversion of the 7.25%
     Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2015 through their conversion and
     redemption in July 1993 (see Note 5).
        
     STOCK SPLIT

     The Company paid a 25% stock dividend on June 30, 1994, to effect a
     five-for-four stock split of the Company's Common Shares.  All share and
     per share amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements,
     except the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity, have been
     adjusted to reflect this stock split.
        
2.   UNUSUAL ITEMS

     In February 1994, the Company recorded a nonrecurring charge to reflect
     estimated Whitmire Merger costs of approximately $35.9 million ($28.2
     million net of tax), including (a) fees and other transaction costs
     related to the combination, and (b) other nonrecurring costs expected to
     be incurred in connection with the integration of Cardinal's and
     Whitmire's business operations.  These estimated costs include
     approximately $7 million for investment banking, legal, accounting, and
     other related transaction fees and costs associated with the combination;
     $13 million for corporate restructuring and distribution rationalization;
     $6 million for integration of information systems; and $2 million for
     restructuring Whitmire's revolving credit agreement.  Of these estimated
     costs, approximately $7 million pertain to the revaluation of certain
     operating assets and $2 million pertain to employee relocation, retraining
     and termination costs.  Certain of these amounts are based on a
     preliminary estimate of costs to be incurred by the Company, and actual
     costs may differ from such estimate.  At June 30, 1994, the Company had
     incurred actual costs aggregating approximately $11.7 million relating to
     the Whitmire Merger.  The Company's current estimates of merger costs
     ultimately to be incurred are not materially different than the amounts
     originally recorded.  


     During fiscal 1993, the Company received a termination fee of
     approximately $13.5 million, resulting from the termination by
     Durr-Fillauer Medical, Inc. of its agreement to merge with the Company. 
     Also during fiscal 1993, the Company recorded nonrecurring charges
     totaling approximately $13.7 million, primarily related to the closing of
     certain non-core operations and the rationalization, standardization and
     improvement of selected distribution operations, information systems and
     support functions.  The charges included the write-down of certain assets,
     moving costs and other costs associated with the affected operations, and
     modification costs necessary to centralize and standardize certain
     information systems and support functions.  At June 30, 1994, the Company
     had incurred actual costs aggregating approximately $9.1 million related
     to these charges and expects most of the remaining amounts to be incurred
     in fiscal 1995.  The modification of the terms of certain Whitmire stock
     options in fiscal 1993 also resulted in a one-time stock option
     compensation charge of approximately $5.2 million (see Note 11).
        
     In fiscal 1992, the completion by Whitmire of certain equity transactions
     resulted in the recording of an unusual expense of approximately $2.0
     million (see Note 11).
        
     The following supplemental information summarizes the results of
     operations of the Company, adjusted on a pro forma basis to reflect (a)
     the elimination of the effect of the unusual items discussed above, and
     (b) the redemption of Whitmire's preferred stock pursuant to the terms of
     the Reorganization Agreement.  Solely for purposes of the summary
     presented below, such redemption is assumed to have been funded from the
     liquidation of investments in tax-exempt marketable securities.

     

3.   BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

     On January 27, 1994, shareholders of Cardinal and Whitmire approved and
     adopted the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated October 11, 1993
     (the "Reorganization Agreement"), pursuant to which Cardinal Merger Corp.,
     a wholly owned subsidiary of Cardinal, was merged with and into Whitmire
     effective February 7, 1994.  In the merger, which was accounted for as a
     pooling-of-interests business combination, holders of outstanding Whitmire
     common stock received an aggregate of approximately 6,802,000  Class A
     Common Shares and approximately 1,861,000 Class B Common Shares in
     exchange for all of the previously outstanding common stock of Whitmire.
     In addition, Whitmire's outstanding stock options were converted into
     options to purchase an aggregate of approximately 1,721,000 additional
     Class A Common Shares pursuant to the terms of such options and the
     Reorganization Agreement.  





     The following presents a reconciliation of amounts of net sales and net
     earnings available for Common Shares as reported in the accompanying
     consolidated financial statements with those previously reported by
     Cardinal as well as such information for the interim period before the
     combination occurred (in thousands):
        
     

     On December 17, 1993, the Company issued approximately 296,000 Class A
     Common Shares in a merger transaction for all of the capital stock of PRN
     Services, Inc., a distributor of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies to
     oncologists and oncology clinics.  The transaction was accounted for as a
     pooling-of-interests business combination.  The impact of the PRN merger,
     on both an historical and pro forma basis, is not significant.
     Accordingly, prior periods have not been restated for the PRN merger.

     On May 4, 1993, the Company acquired all of the outstanding capital stock
     of Solomons Company, a wholesale drug distributor based in Savannah,
     Georgia, in exchange for approximately 1,062,000 Class A Common Shares.
     The transaction was accounted for by the purchase method.  Had the
     acquisition occurred at the beginning of fiscal 1993, operating results on
     a pro forma basis would not have been significantly different.

     On October 15, 1991, the Company acquired all of the issued and
     outstanding shares of Chapman Drug Company, a drug wholesaler based in
     Knoxville, Tennessee, for cash of $16,800,000 in a transaction accounted
     for by the purchase method.  Had the acquisition occurred at the beginning
     of fiscal 1992, operating results on a pro forma basis would not have been
     significantly different.



4.   NOTES PAYABLE - BANKS

     The Company has entered into various uncommitted line-of-credit
     arrangements which allow for borrowings up to $221,000,000 at various
     money market rates.  The amount outstanding under such arrangements as of
     June 30, 1994 was $25,000,000.

     In addition to the aforementioned credit arrangements, at June 30, 1994,
     the Company has revolving credit agreements with eight banks which have a
     maturity of less than one year, are renewable on a quarterly basis, and
     allow the Company to borrow up to $100,000,000 (none of which was in use
     at June 30, 1994) at either the prime rate, eurodollar rates plus .5%, or
     a mutually agreed upon rate.  The Company is required to pay a commitment
     fee at the annual rate of .125% on the average daily unused amounts of the
     total credit allowed under the revolving credit agreements.

     Total unused lines of credit at June 30, 1994 and March 31, 1993 were
     $296,000,000 and $176,000,000, respectively.


        

     The following summarizes notes payable - banks activity (in thousands,
     except interest rate data):
        
     

     The weighted average interest rates during the periods represent
     annualized rates computed based on the number of days the borrowings were
     outstanding.  The average amounts borrowed were computed based on the
     average of the daily amounts outstanding during the respective periods.

 5. LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

     Long-term obligations consist of the following (in thousands):

     


     On February 23, 1994, the Company sold $100,000,000 of 6.5% Notes due 2004
     (the "New Notes") in a public offering.  The New Notes represent unsecured
     obligations of the Company, are not redeemable prior to maturity and are
     not subject to a sinking fund.  Issuance costs of approximately $860,000
     incurred in connection with the offering are being amortized on a
     straight-line basis over the period the New Notes will be outstanding.
     The Company used the proceeds of this sale for general corporate purposes,
     including the repayment of bank lines of credit incurred as part of the
     Whitmire Merger (see Note 3).  In anticipation of the sale of the New
     Notes, the Company entered into an interest rate hedge agreement, which
     was terminated at the approximate time of the issuance of the New Notes,
     resulting in a deferred gain of approximately $1.3 million which will be
     amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the period the New Notes
     are outstanding.

     On March 11, 1992, the Company sold $100,000,000 of 8% Notes due 1997 (the
     "Notes") in a public offering.  The Notes represent unsecured obligations
     of the Company, are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject
     to a sinking fund.  Issuance costs of approximately $718,000 incurred in
     connection with the offering, are being amortized on a straight-line basis
     over the period the Notes will be outstanding.  



     The Company has entered into various interest rate swap agreements which
     serve to hedge the Notes. The net effect of the swap agreements is that
     the Company exchanged its 8% fixed rate position on the Notes for a fixed
     rate of 5.1% for the period July 15, 1992, through March 1, 1993, a fixed
     rate of 6.5% for the period March 2, 1993, through March 1, 1994, and,
     thereafter, a fixed rate of 8.1% through March 1, 1997 (the maturity date
     of the Notes).  In May 1993, two of the offsetting swap agreements were
     canceled at no gain or loss to the Company.  Due to the offsetting nature
     of the swaps, the market value of those in a net receivable position
     approximates the market value of those in a net payable position.  The
     risk of accounting loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties
     is approximately $4 million as of June 30, 1994; however, based on the
     credit quality of the counterparties, the Company believes the     
     likelihood of such a credit loss to be remote.



     During fiscal 1992, the Company, through Whitmire, entered into a
     revolving credit agreement under which it could borrow up to $210,000,000.
     During fiscal 1993, the agreement was amended to provide for seasonal
     increases in the availability up to $235,000,000.  Interest was payable
     monthly at 1.5% over the prime rate or, at Whitmire's election, 3.25% over
     the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR).  The average interest rate
     under the revolving credit agreement at the end of fiscal 1993 was 6.9%.
     This agreement replaced a $175,000,000 credit agreement, and interest
     expense in fiscal 1992 includes a charge of $1,837,000 associated with
     this replacement.  On February 7, 1994, the revolving credit agreement was
     terminated.

     The Subordinated Debentures outstanding at March 31, 1993, were
     convertible into the Company's Class A Common Shares at any time on or
     before July 1, 2015, unless previously redeemed, at a conversion price of
     $17.51 per share.  Issuance costs of approximately $2,000,000 incurred in
     connection with the offering were being amortized on a straight-line basis
     over the original period the Subordinated Debentures were to be
     outstanding.  On June 11, 1993, the Company called the Subordinated
     Debentures for redemption, effective as of July 2, 1993.  Following this
     call, $74,920,000 of Subordinated Debentures outstanding as of March 31,
     1993, were converted into Class A Common Shares of the Company.  The
     remaining $80,000 of Subordinated Debentures outstanding as of March 31,
     1993, were redeemed for cash.  The pro forma primary earnings per share of
     the Company, as if the above conversion and redemption had occurred as of
     the beginning of fiscal 1992, would have been $0.80 and $0.74 in fiscal
     1993 and 1992, respectively.

     The amount credited to shareholders' equity as a result of the conversion
     of the Subordinated Debentures was reduced by unamortized offering costs
     of approximately $1,767,000 and costs directly related to the conversion
     of approximately $13,000.

     Certain long-term obligations are collateralized by property and equipment
     of the Company with an aggregate book value of approximately $13,500,000
     at June 30, 1994.

     Maturities of long-term  obligations for future fiscal years are as
     follows (in thousands):

     

6.   DISCLOSURES ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
     of each material class of financial instruments for which estimates are
     practicable:


     CASH AND EQUIVALENTS, MARKETABLE SECURITIES, AND OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     The carrying amount at June 30, 1994, and March 31, 1993, approximates the
     fair value because of the short-term maturities of these items.
        

     LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

     The Company's long-term obligations are composed of notes, a long-term
     revolving credit agreement, convertible debentures, and various mortgage
     revenue bonds, notes and capital leases.  The fair value of the Company's
     long-term obligations is estimated based on the quoted market prices for
     the same or similar issues and the current interest rates offered for debt
     of the same remaining maturities.
        
        
     Considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop
     the estimates of fair value.  Accordingly, the estimates presented herein
     are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could
     realize in a current market exchange.  The fair values do not include
     early redemption premiums, underwriter's fees and commissions, and
     refunding costs (legal and registration fees).

     The estimated value of the Company's long-term obligations was
     $206,116,000 and $313,704,000, as compared to the carrying amounts of
     $213,015,000 and $281,225,000 at June 30, 1994, and March 31, 1993,
     respectively.

     The fair value estimates presented herein are based on pertinent
     information available to management as of the dates indicated.  Although
     management is not aware of any factors that would significantly affect the
     estimated fair value amounts, such amounts have not been comprehensively
     revalued for purposes of these financial statements since that date, and
     current estimates of fair values may differ significantly from the amounts
     presented herein.







7.   INCOME TAXES                      

     Effective the beginning of fiscal 1993, Cardinal adopted Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 "Accounting for Income Taxes" (SFAS
     No. 109).  Under the provisions of SFAS No. 109, income taxes are recorded
     under the liability method.  SFAS No. 109 results in the recognition of
     deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax
     consequences of existing differences between financial reporting and tax
     reporting bases of assets and liabilities (temporary differences), and
     operating loss and tax credit carryforwards for tax purposes.  The
     cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 109 ($10,000,000) by Cardinal has
     been reported as a change in accounting principle retroactive to the
     beginning of fiscal 1993.  The cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 109
     by Whitmire was not material and has been included in the fiscal 1992
     provision for income taxes, and not separately presented in the
     accompanying consolidated statements of earnings.

     The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands):








8.   EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS

     Substantially all of the Company's non-union employees are enrolled in
     Company-sponsored contributory profit sharing and retirement savings plans
     which include features under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code,
     and provide for matching Company contributions.  The Company's
     contributions to the plans are determined by the Board of Directors
     subject to certain minimum requirements as specified in the plans.

     Qualified union employees are covered by Company-sponsored and
     multiemployer defined benefit pension plans under the provisions of
     collective bargaining agreements.  Benefits under these plans are
     generally based on the employee's years of service and average
     compensation at retirement.


     The effect of the Company-sponsored defined benefit plans on the Company's
     consolidated financial statements is not material.

     Employee retirement benefit plans expense was as follows (in thousands):




     The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued Statement No. 112,
     "Employer's Accounting for Postemployment Benefits" which requires
     employers to accrue for certain postemployment benefits provided to former
     or inactive employees, their beneficiaries, and covered dependents after
     employment, but before retirement.  This change must be implemented by the
     Company in fiscal 1995.  Based upon preliminary estimates, management does
     not believe that the new statement will have a material effect on the
     consolidated financial statements of the Company.


9.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     The Company leases certain warehouse and office facilities, vehicles, and
     data processing equipment under operating leases.  The leases expire at
     various dates over the next thirteen years.  Certain of these leases
     provide for renewal options and/or contingent rentals based on various
     factors.

     The future minimum rental payments for operating leases having initial or
     remaining non-cancelable lease terms in excess of one year at June 30,
     1994, are as follows (in thousands):



     The minimum rental payments above have been reduced by sublease rentals of
     approximately $582,000 in 1995, $215,000 in 1996, $79,000 in 1997, and
     $12,000 in 1998.  Rental expense (net of sublease rental income) relating
     to operating leases and short-term cancelable leases was approximately
     $11,189,000, $10,316,000 and $8,990,000 in fiscal 1994, 1993, and 1992,
     respectively.

     In connection with its supplier relationship with various customers, the
     Company has guaranteed certain indebtedness and lease payments.  As of
     June 30, 1994, these guarantees total approximately $2,251,000.

     During fiscal 1994, the Company began a program whereby certain customer
     notes receivables were sold, with full recourse, to a commercial bank.  As
     of June 30, 1994, amounts outstanding on customer notes receivables sold
     to the commercial bank under this program totaled approximately $6.7
     million.


     The Company becomes involved from time-to-time in litigation arising out
     of its normal business activities.  In addition, in November 1993,
     Cardinal, Whitmire, five other pharmaceutical wholesalers, and twenty-four
     pharmaceutical manufacturers were named as defendants in a series of
     purported class action antitrust lawsuits alleging violations of various
     antitrust laws associated with the chargeback pricing system.  The Company
     believes that the allegations set forth against Cardinal and Whitmire in
     these lawsuits are without merit.  In the opinion of management, the
     Company's liability, if any, under any pending litigation would not have a
     material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.


10.  REDEEMABLE PREFERRED STOCK


     The Company had authorized 360,000 shares of redeemable preferred $.01
     par value stock in Whitmire.  The redeemable preferred stock was divided
     into two series:  350,000 shares designated as Senior Preferred Stock and
     10,000 shares designated as Series A Preferred Stock.



     The holders of the Whitmire redeemable preferred stock were entitled to
     cumulative annual dividends of $10.00 per share for Senior Preferred Stock
     and $10.125 for Series A Preferred Stock when and as declared by
     Whitmire's board of directors.  In lieu of paying cash dividends to the
     holders of Senior Preferred Stock and Series A Preferred Stock, Whitmire
     could, at its election, pay scheduled dividends with additional shares of
     Senior Preferred Stock or Series A Preferred Stock, as appropriate.

     Whitmire would have been required to redeem, at $100.00 per share plus
     accrued but unpaid dividends, all shares of its Senior and Series A
     Preferred Stock commencing in October 1994 through July 1996.
     Stockholders' equity was charged $840,000 in each of fiscal 1993 and 1992
     for accretion relative to this mandatory redemption obligation.  As of
     March 31, 1993, a total of $4,200,000 had been credited to redeemable
     preferred stock through accretion.  Pursuant to the terms of the
     Reorganization Agreement between Cardinal and Whitmire (see Note 3), all
     of the outstanding shares of Senior and Series A Preferred Stock were
     redeemed as  of February 7, 1994, the date of the Whitmire Merger.


11.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     During fiscal 1992, the Company, through Whitmire, completed a series
     of transactions which affected its capitalization as follows: warrants for
     the purchase of Whitmire common stock were returned and canceled; options
     were granted for the benefit of key employees to purchase shares of
     Whitmire common stock; outside investors were granted adjustment share
     rights representing rights to purchase shares of Whitmire common stock (a
     defined percentage of the adjustment share rights were cancelable
     annually, up to 100%, based upon the achievement of certain financial
     targets); shares of Whitmire's Series A Preferred Stock were issued to
     certain outside investors as reimbursement of expenses incurred in
     connection with their ownership interest; and put and call provisions of
     certain outstanding warrants were canceled. The fiscal 1992 consolidated 
     statement of earnings reflects an expense associated with the above
     transactions of approximately $2.0 million.

     During fiscal 1993,  the adjustment share rights were canceled and certain
     conditions relative to the exercise of options were eliminated.  For
     financial reporting purposes, the modification of the terms of these
     options has been treated as if the options were issued on the date that
     the terms were modified.  Accordingly,  a compensation charge totaling
     approximately $5.2 million was recorded relative to these changes.  The
     compensation charge is equal to the fair value (as determined by an
     independent appraisal) of the options on the date that the terms of the
     options were modified.

     Pursuant to the terms of the Reorganization Agreement (see Note 3),
     warrants to purchase shares of Whitmire common stock which, upon exercise
     became convertible into approximately 2,831,000 Common Shares at an
     average price of $.08 per share, were exercised prior to the consummation
     of the pooling-of-interests business combination of Cardinal and Whitmire.


12.  STOCK OPTIONS AND RESTRICTED SHARES

     The Company maintains stock incentive plans (the "Plans") for the benefit
     of certain officers, directors and key employees.  Under the Plans, at
     June 30, 1994, the Company was authorized to issue up to an aggregate of
     approximately 3,875,000 Class A Common Shares in the form of incentive
     stock options, nonqualified stock options, and restricted shares.  Options
     granted are generally exercisable for periods up to ten years from the
     date of grant at a price approximating fair market value at the date of
     grant.






     At June 30, 1994, approximately 389,000 option shares under the Plans were
     exercisable and approximately 2,919,000 Class A Common Shares were
     reserved for issuance under the Plans.

     In connection with a 1988 acquisition, the Company issued options for
     approximately 133,000 Class A Common Shares at $7.45 per share.  All of
     these options were exercised in fiscal 1993.

     In connection with the Whitmire Merger, outstanding Whitmire stock options
     granted to current or former Whitmire officers or employees were
     automatically converted into options ("Cardinal Exchange Options") to
     purchase an aggregate of approximately 1,721,000 additional Cardinal Class
     A Common Shares pursuant to the terms of such options and the
     Reorganization Agreement (see Note 3).  Under the terms of their original
     issuance and as reflected in the Reorganization Agreement, the exercise
     price for substantially all of the Cardinal Exchange Options is remitted
     to certain former investors of Whitmire.  During fiscal 1994, Cardinal
     Exchange Options to purchase approximately 271,000 shares were exercised
     with an average option price of $1.60 per share.  At June 30, 1994,
     Cardinal Exchange Options to purchase approximately 1,450,000 shares were
     outstanding with an average exercise price of $1.60 per share.
     Substantially all of the Cardinal Exchange Options outstanding at June 30,
     1994, are 100% vested and are exercisable through October 25, 1995.


     The market value of restricted shares awarded by the Company is recorded
     as unamortized restricted stock awards and shown as a separate component
     of shareholders' equity.  The compensation awards are amortized to expense
     over the period in which participants perform services, generally four to
     seven years.  As of June 30, 1994, approximately 414,000 restricted shares
     have been issued, of which approximately 195,000 shares remain restricted
     and subject to forfeiture and approximately 16,000 shares have been
     forfeited.



13.  SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION REGARDING NONCASH INVESTING AND FINANCING
     ACTIVITIES

     Capital lease obligations of $906,000, $648,000 and $2,130,000 were
     incurred in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, as a result of the Company
     entering into leases for equipment.


     In conjunction with the acquisitions of Solomons and Chapman (see Note 3),
     liabilities were assumed as follows (in thousands):



     Total debt assumed by the Company as a result of these acquisitions was
     $6,275,000 in fiscal 1992 and $4,315,000 in the three months ended June
     30, 1993, and is included as part of the amount of liabilities assumed.

     In conjunction with the pooling-of-interests combination with PRN (see
     Note 3) in fiscal 1994, the historical cost of PRN assets combined was
     approximately $16,946,000, and the total PRN liabilities assumed
     (including total debt of approximately $5,847,000) were approximately
     $16,564,000.







     The above amounts differ from amounts reported in previously filed
     quarterly reports due to the pooling-of-interests transaction between
     Cardinal and Whitmire consummated February 7, 1994.  Amounts originally
     reported by Cardinal before the pooling-of-interests transaction were as
     follows:

     


     The following supplemental information, presented to show the seasonal
     trend of earnings, reflects the selected quarterly financial data on the
     basis of consolidating the same calendar quarters for Cardinal and
     Whitmire, excludes the impact of unusual items (see Note 2) and assumes the
     redemption of Whitmire's preferred stock.  Solely for purposes of the
     supplemental information presented below, such redemption is assumed to
     have been funded from the liquidation of investments in tax-exempt
     marketable securities.
        



15.  COMMON SHARES REPURCHASE

     On April 14, 1993, the Company repurchased all of the Class A Common Shares
     (approximately 725,000) owned by subsidiaries of North American National
     Corporation, the former Chairman of which is also a Director of the
     Company, at a price of $21.20 per share.  Nearly all of these shares were
     subject to certain restrictions contained in a Shareholders Agreement among
     North American National Corporation and other individual shareholders,
     which restrictions were released as part of the repurchase transaction.
        

16.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
  
     On July 1, 1994, the Company purchased all of the common stock of
     Humiston-Keeling, Inc. in a transaction to be accounted for by the
     purchase method.  Humiston-Keeling is a Calumet City, Illinois based
     wholesale drug distributor with annualized revenues of approximately $330
     million.

     On July 18, 1994, the Company issued Class A Common Shares in exchange for
     all of the common shares of Behrens Inc. in a transaction to be accounted
     for as a pooling-of-interests business combination.  The impact of the
     Behrens combination, on both an historical and pro forma basis, is not
     significant.  Accordingly, prior periods will not be restated for the
     Behrens combination.  Behrens is a Waco, Texas based wholesale drug
     distributor with annualized revenues of approximately $185 million.


     On August 17, 1994, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange
     Commission a registration statement for an underwritten public offering of
     5,250,000 Class A Common Shares.  Of the 5,250,000 shares, 1,600,000 are
     being sold by the Company and 3,650,000 are being sold by certain
     shareholders of the Company.  The underwriters have been granted an option
     to purchase up to 787,500 additional Class A Common Shares to cover
     overallotments, including up to 266,949 such shares from the Company.  The
     net proceeds payable to the Company will be used to finance working
     capital growth and for other general corporate purposes.







Item 9:  Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

         Not applicable.


                                    PART III

Item 10: Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

         The Directors and executive officers of the Company are as follows:










  Unless indicated to the contrary, the business experience summaries provided
below for the Company's Directors and executive officers describe positions
held by the named individuals during the last five years but may exclude other
positions held with subsidiaries of the Company.

  Robert D. Walter has been a Director, Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company since its formation in 1979 and has served as
a director and officer of certain of the Company's subsidiaries since their
formation or acquisition by the Company.  Mr. Walter also serves as a director
of Banc One Corporation and Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation.

  Melburn G. Whitmire has been a Director of the Company since January 1994 and
was elected Vice Chairman of the Company in February 1994.  Prior to that, Mr.
Whitmire was Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of
Whitmire Distribution Corporation, and he has continued to serve in those
capacities for Whitmire following its merger transaction with the Company.

  John C. Kane has been a Director of the Company since August 1993 and has
been the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer since joining the
Company in February 1993.  Prior to that, Mr. Kane was employed by Abbott
Laboratories (a pharmaceutical and health care manufacturer), where he served
most recently as President of the Ross Laboratories Division.

  David Bearman has been an Executive Vice President of the Company since
February 1994 and, prior to that, served as a Region President from May 1991 to
February 1994 and as a Senior Vice President from October 1989.  Mr. Bearman
has also served as the Company's Chief Financial Officer since joining the
Company in October 1989 and serves in similar capacities for subsidiaries of
the Company.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bearman served as the Chief
Finance Executive of the Medical Systems Division of General Electric Company.

  George H. Bennett, Jr. has been Secretary of the Company since July 1994 and
an Executive Vice President of the Company since February 1994.  Prior to that,
Mr. Bennett was a Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer of the
Company from May 1991.  Mr. Bennett has also served as General Counsel of the
Company since joining the Company in January 1984, and serves in a similar
capacity for subsidiaries of the Company.

  James E. Clare has been the Company's Executive Vice President - Southern 
Group since February 1994.  Prior to that, Mr. Clare served as the Vice
President - Eastern Region of Whitmire Distribution Corporation and has
continued to serve as an officer of Whitmire following its merger transaction
with the Company.

  Gary E. Close has been the Company's Executive Vice President - Western Group
since February 1994.  Prior to that, Mr. Close served as the Executive Vice
President - Operations of Whitmire Distribution Corporation and has continued
to serve as an officer of Whitmire following its merger transaction with the
Company.

  Daniel P. Finkelman has been the Company's Executive Vice President -
Marketing since joining the Company in May 1994.  Prior to that, Mr.  Finkelman
was a principal with McKinsey & Company, Inc. (an international management
consulting firm).

  James F. Millar has been the Company's Executive Vice President - Northern
Group since February 1994.  Prior to that, Mr. Millar served as a Region
President from May 1991, a Senior Vice President of the Company from November
1992, and President of the Company's Cardinal Syracuse, Inc. subsidiary.


  Mitchell J. Blutt has been a Director of the Company since January 1994.  Dr.
Blutt is an Executive Partner of Chemical Venture Partners (an investment
partnership which is the general partner of Chemical Equity Associates).  Dr.
Blutt also serves as a director of Hanger Orthopedic Group, Inc. and
Cyberonics, Inc.  See Item 12 for a description of an arrangement pursuant to
which Dr. Blutt may continue to be nominated and elected as a Director of the
Company.

  John F. Finn has been a Director of the Company since January 1994.  Mr. Finn
is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Gardner Inc. (an outdoor power
equipment distributor).

  Robert L. Gerbig has been a Director of the Company since July 1982.  Mr.
Gerbig is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Gerbig, Snell/Weisheimer
& Associates, Inc. (an advertising agency).

  Michael S. Gross has been a Director of the Company since January 1994.  Mr.
Gross has been Vice President of Apollo Capital Management, Inc.  (which is the
general partner of Apollo Investment Fund, L.P., a securities investment fund),
since February 1990.  Prior to February 1990, Mr.  Gross served as an associate
of Drexel Burnham Lambert Incorporated.   Mr. Gross also serves as a director
of Buster Brown Apparel, Inc.; Interco Incorporated; Hills Stores, Inc.; and
Cole National Group.  See Item 12 for a description of an arrangement pursuant
to which Mr. Gross may continue to be nominated and elected as a Director of
the Company.

  John F. Havens has been a Director of the Company since its formation in
1979. Prior to his retirement in April 1986, Mr. Havens was the Chairman of the
Board of Banc One Corporation (a bank holding company), and he continues to
serve as a Director Emeritus of Banc One.  Mr.  Havens also serves as a
director of Worthington Industries, Inc.

  James L. Heskett has been a Director of the Company since December 1982.  Dr.
Heskett is a Professor at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business
Administration and also serves as a director of the Equitable of Iowa
Companies.

  George R. Manser has been a Director of the Company since July 1982.  Mr.
Manser is Chairman of Uniglobe Travel (Capital Cities) Inc. (a travel planning
services company).  Prior to his retirement in June 1994, Mr. Manser was a
director and Chairman of the Board of North American National Corporation (an
insurance holding company).  Mr. Manser currently serves as a director of
AmeriLink Corporation and State Auto Financial Corporation.

  John B. McCoy has been a Director of the Company since November 1987.  Mr.
McCoy is the Chairman  and Chief Executive Officer of Banc One Corporation (a
bank holding company).  Mr. McCoy also serves as a director of Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation; Tenneco Incorporated; and Ameritech Corporation.

  Michael E. Moritz has been a Director of the Company since its formation in
1979.  Mr. Moritz served as Secretary of the Company from the formation of the
Company in 1979 to July 1994, and served in a similar capacity for subsidiaries
of the Company.  Mr. Moritz is a partner in the law firm of Baker & Hostetler,
which has in the past and currently serves as outside counsel to the Company.

  Jerry E. Robertson has been a Director of the Company since December 1991.
Until his retirement in March 1994, Dr. Robertson served as Executive Vice
President of the Life Sciences Sector and Corporate Services of Minnesota
Mining and Manufacturing Company (a manufacturer of industrial, commercial,
health care and consumer products).  Dr. Robertson also serves as a director of
Manor Care, Inc.; Allianz Life Insurance Company of North America; Coherent,
Inc.; Haemonetics Corporation; Life Technologies, Inc.; and Steris Corporation.


  L. Jack Van Fossen has been a Director of the Company since August 1983.  Mr.
Van Fossen has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of Red Roof Inns,
Inc. (a lodging company) since May 1991.  Prior to that time, Mr. Van Fossen
served as President of Nessoff Corp. (a private investment company) and as
President and Chief Executive Officer of Chemlawn Corporation (a lawn care
company).  Mr. Van Fossen also serves as a director of The Scotts Company.


  The Company's Restated Code of Regulations provides that the Board of
Directors shall consist of fourteen members, divided into two classes of five
members each and a third class of four members.  The Regulations provide that
the number of Directors may be increased or decreased by action of the Board of
Directors upon the majority vote of the Board, but in no case shall the number
of Directors be fewer than nine or more than fourteen without an amendment
approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 75% of the
shares having voting power with respect to that proposed amendment.  The
Regulations require that any proposal to either remove a Director during his
term of office or to further amend the Regulations relating to the
classification or removal of Directors be approved by the affirmative vote of
the holders of not less than 75% of the shares having voting power with respect
to that proposal.  The Board of Directors may fill any vacancies with a person
who shall serve until the shareholders hold an election to fill the vacancy.
There are currently no vacancies on the Company's Board of Directors.  The
officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of the Company's Board of
Directors.

  The Executive Committee is empowered to exercise all powers and perform all
duties of the Board of Directors when the Board is not in session other than
the authority of filling vacancies among the Directors or in any committee of
the Directors.  The Audit Committee is empowered to exercise all of the powers
and authority of the Board of Directors with respect to the Company's annual
audit, accounting policies, financial reporting, and internal controls.  The
Compensation Committee is empowered to exercise all powers and authority of the
Board of Directors with respect to compensation of the employees of the
Company, sales to employees of stock in the Company, or grants to employees of
options to purchase stock in the Company.  The Company does not have a
nominating committee of the Board of Directors or other committee which
performs similar functions.





(7)  Includes $10,000 for Company funded matching contributions and $85,000 for
     premiums paid by the Company on a split-dollar insurance arrangement
     between the Company and Mr. Whitmire under the Whitmire Selective Deferred
     Compensation Plan. The Company will recover all such premiums paid by it
     upon the death of Mr. Whitmire. Also includes $90,000 for previously
     accrued vacation time paid to Mr. Whitmire in connection with the Whitmire
     Merger.

(8)  Includes $34,634 for expenses related to relocation.




             III. AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES IN LAST FISCAL YEAR
                           AND FY-END OPTION VALUES






EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS
- - ----------------------
   In connection with the Whitmire Merger, Messrs. Whitmire, Clare and Close
each entered into an employment agreement with Whitmire, the performance of
which was guaranteed by the Company. The employment agreements provide for an
employment term of three years commencing February 7, 1994, and payment of a
base salary of $275,000 for Mr. Whitmire, $98,400 for Mr. Clare and $180,000 for
Mr. Close, such base salaries to be reviewed for possible increase at least
annually. The agreements also provide for an annual bonus payable in accordance
with the bonus plan in which other Company executive officers participate from
time to time. The emplyment agreements provide that individual parties to the
employment agreements will be entitled to participate in group health, life,
disability insurance, retirement savings and other employee benefit plans which
are substantially equivalent in the aggregate to either (i) Whitmire's group
benefit plans in effect at the time of the Whitmire Merger or (ii) the group
benefit plans maintained from time to time by the Company in which the other
executives of the Company participate. In addition, the employment agreements
contain noncompete covenants effective throughout the employment term, and for
up to two additional one year periods following the employment term (the
"Extension Period"). As consideration for his noncompete covenants, Mr. Whitmire
will receive two consecutive annual payments of $600,000 each, with the first
such payment to be paid on the 30th day after the earlier of the termination of
Mr. Whitmire's employment or February 7, 1999. As consideration for their
respective noncompete covenants following the termination of their employment
with the Company, each of Messrs. Clare and Close may, if the noncompete
covenants are triggered during the Extension Period by the Company, at its
election, continue to receive during the Extension Period base salary, 50% of
their bonus target, and participation in certain group benefit plans.

COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
- - -------------------------
   The Company's non-employee Directors are paid $2,000 per quarter plus $1,000
for each Board meeting attended. Non-employee Directors are also entitled to
receive $600 for each Committee meeting attended. Employee Directors do not
receive compensation in their capacity as a Director.















   Pursuant to the Company's Directors' Stock Option Plan, as amended (the
"Directors' Option Plan"), options to purchase that number of Class A Common
Shares having a fair market value of $50,000 on the date of grant are
automatically granted on an annual basis to each non-employee Director who has
served as such for three consecutive annual meetings.  The exercise price of
these options is the fair market value of the Class A Common Shares on the date
of grant.  In addition, options to purchase that number of Class A Common
Shares having a fair market value of $100,000 on the date of grant are
automatically made to each non-employee Director subsequently added to the
Board. The exercise price of these options is the fair market value of Class A
Common Shares on the date of grant.  All grants under the Directors' Option
Plan vest immediately, are exerciseable for ten years from the date of grant,
and are subject to adjustment for subsequent stock dividends, splits, and other
changes in the Company's capital structure.  If a Director ceases to serve as
such, then options previously granted under the Directors' Option Plan lapse
unless exercised within six months (twelve months in the case of a Director's
death).  Options granted under the Directors' Option Plan are treated as
"nonqualified options" under the Code.
 
   The Company has entered into Indemnification Agreements with each of its
Directors.  See "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions--
Indemnification Agreements."


COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION
- - -----------------------------------------------------------
   John F. Finn, John F. Havens, James L. Heskett and John B. McCoy are
the members of the Company's Compensation Committee.  Mr. McCoy is Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Banc One Corporation ("Banc One").  Robert D. Walter,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, is a director of Banc One.

    Banc One is the parent corporation of Bank One, Columbus, N.A. ("Bank One,
Columbus"), a bank with which the Company conducts business.  As of June 30,
1994, the Company had lines of credit totaling $46 million with Bank One,
Columbus, of which $4 million was drawn upon at June 30, 1994.  Bank One is
also the parent corporation of Bank One, Indianapolis, N.A. ("Bank One,
Indianapolis"), which serves as the transfer agent for the Company's Class A
Common Shares and as Trustee under the Indentures pertaining to the Company's
8% Notes due 1997 and its 6 1/2% Notes due 2004.  













ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    The following table sets forth certain information regarding the
beneficial ownership of the Company's Class A Common Shares as of August 19,
1994, by:  (a) Company Directors; (b) each other person who is known by the
Company to own beneficially more than 5% of the outstanding Class A Common
Shares; (c) the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the other four most
highly compensated executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table;
and (d) the Company's executive officers and Directors as a group.  Except as
otherwise described in the notes below, the following beneficial owners have
sole voting power and sole investment power with respect to all Class A Common
Shares set forth opposite their names.



 (3) Class A Common Shares and the percent of class listed as being beneficially
     owned by the Company's named executive officers include outstanding options
     to purchase Class A Common Shares which are exercisable within 60 days of
     August 19, 1994, as follows:  Mr. Walter - 38,125 shares; Mr. Kane - -0-
     shares; Mr. Whitmire - 532,333 shares; Mr. Bearman - 19,239 shares; and Mr.
     Millar - 10,264 shares.

 (4) The address of Apollo Investment Fund, L.P. ("Apollo") is Two
     Manhattanville Road, Purchase, New York 10577.  Apollo's managing general
     partner is Apollo Advisors, L.P., whose general partner is Apollo Capital
     Management, Inc.  Michael S. Gross, who also serves as a Director of the
     Company, is a Vice President of Apollo Capital Management, Inc.  Each of
     the foregoing parties may be deemed to be the beneficial owner of the Class
     A Common Shares owned by Apollo, although each expressly disclaims
     beneficial ownership of such shares.
  
(5) The address of Chemical Equity Associates ("CEA") is c/o Apollo Advisors,
     L.P., 270 Park Avenue (5th Floor), New York, New York 10017.  Class A
     Common Shares and the percent of class listed as being beneficially owned
     by CEA  include 2,971,375 Class A Common Shares issuable upon the
     conversion of the same number of Class B Common Shares, which conversion is
     possible only under the circumstances set forth in the Company's Articles.
     At August 19, 1994, CEA was the beneficial owner of all of the Company's
     2,971,375 Class B Common Shares issued and outstanding.  Mitchell J. Blutt,
     M.D., who serves as a Director of the Company and as an Executive Partner
     of Chemical Venture Partners, the sole general partner of CEA; Chemical
     Banking Corporation, whose wholly owned subsidiary is a general partner of
     Chemical Venture Partners; Jeffrey C. Walker, Managing General Partner of
     Chemical Venture Partners; and Arnold L. Chavkin, David L. Ferguson, Donald
     J.  Hofmann, Brian J. Richmand and Shahan D. Soghikian, partners of
     Chemical Venture Partners; may also be deemed to be beneficial owners of
     the Common Shares held by CEA, although they expressly disclaim beneficial
     ownership of such shares.

 (6) Based on information obtained from a 13G filed by FMR Corp. with the
     Securities and Exchange Commission on or about February 11, 1994.  The
     address of FMR Corp. is 82 Devonshire Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02109.

 (7) Based on information obtained from a 13G filed by Firstar Corporation with
     the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about February 11, 1994.  The
     address of Firstar Corporation is 777 E. Wisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee,
     Wisconsin 53202.

 (8) Based on information obtained from a 13G filed by Nicholas Company, Inc.
     with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about February 8, 1994.
     The address of Nicholas Company, Inc. is 700 North Water Street,
     Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53202.

 (9) Includes 4,801 Class A Common Shares held by Mr. Whitmire and his wife as
     custodian for the benefit of their minor daughter.

(10) Mr. Moritz has sole investment power with respect to all but 10,000 Class
     A Common Shares listed as being beneficially owned by him in the table
     above, which 10,000 shares are held by a family partnership of which Mr.
     Moritz and his spouse are general partners and over which he has shared
     investment and voting power.  As a result of the Shareholders Agreement
     described in Note (1) above, Mr. Moritz has shared voting power with
     respect to the  Pooled Shares owned by him.

(11) Class A Common Shares and the percent of class listed as being
     beneficially owned by the listed Company Directors (except for Messrs.
     Kane, Walter and Whitmire) include outstanding options to purchase Class A
     Common Shares which are exercisable under the Company's Directors' Stock
     Option Plan as follows:  Mr. Moritz - 12,805 shares; Dr. Robertson - 8,056
     shares; Messrs. Gross, Blutt, and Finn - 2,865 shares each; and each other
     listed Director (except for Messrs., Kane, Walter and Whitmire) - 10,120
     shares.

(12) Includes 2,827 Class A Common Shares which are held by Mr. McCoy in trust
     for the benefit of his children, but does not include Class A Common
     Shares owned by Banc One Corporation and its subsidiaries.

(13) Includes 686 Class A Common Shares held by Mr. Heskett in trust for the
     benefit of his children.

(14) Includes 625 Class A Common Shares held jointly by Mr. Finn and his wife,
     106 Class A Common Shares held in his wife's individual retirement
     account, and 62 Class A Common Shares held for the benefit of each of Mr.
     Finn's two minor children.





(15) Does not include Common Shares beneficially owned by Apollo, in the
     case of Mr. Gross, or by CEA, in the case of Dr. Blutt (see Notes (4) and 
     (5)). As a result of the Company's merger with Whitmire Distribution 
     Corporation in February 1994 (the "Whitmire Merger"), Apollo has the right
     to designate two nominees for election as Directors of the Company for so 
     long as (A) Apollo, including any of its affiliates and any of its
     accounts under common management and control (the "Apollo Group"), and
     (B) any former shareholder of Whitmire (exclusive of Apollo Advisors, L.P.
     and any such shareholders who were current or former employees of Whitmire 
     as of October 11, 1993,  or any family members of such employees or trusts
     for their benefit ("Management Shareholders")) each continue to have a
     pecuniary interest in 1,250,000 or more Common Shares issued to such 
     person in the Whitmire Merger (the "Threshold Amount"). Further, Apollo
     Advisors, L.P. has the right to designate one individual for so long as
     only one of the Apollo Group or any former shareholder of Whitmire
     (exclusive of Apollo Advisors, L.P. or Management Shareholders) shall
     continue to have a pecuniary interest in a number of Common Shares which
     equals or exceeds the Threshold Amount. In connection with the Whitmire 
     Merger, Apollo designated  Messrs. Gross and Blutt as nominees for 
     Directors of the Company and they were elected by the Company's
     shareholders. In addition, until the Apollo Group no longer has
     a pecuniary interest in a number of Common Shares equal to or exceeding 
     the Threshold Amount, the Company  must include as a member of its Audit 
     Committee one Director designated by the Apollo Group and, if Mr.Whitmire
     ceases to be a member of the Company's Executive Committee, one Director 
     designated by the Apollo Group on the Company's Executive Committee.

(16) Class A Common Shares and percent of class listed as being beneficially
     owned by all executive officers and Directors as a group include: (a) all
     Pooled Shares, including those Pooled Shares owned by the Espings; and (b)
     outstanding options to purchase Class A Common Shares which are
     exercisable within 60 days of August 19, 1994, but do not include any
     Class A Common Shares beneficially owned by Apollo, CEA or Banc One
     (including the 137,691 Class A Common Shares owned by the Walter Trusts).

ITEM 13: CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- - -------------------------------------------------------
BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS
- - ---------------------
    A property which includes parts of the Company's former Columbus food
distribution center is leased by the Company from a limited partnership in
which the general partner is Mr. Walter and the limited partners include
certain shareholders and directors of the Company or their affiliates.  The
Company has subleased this property to third parties at rentals substantially
in excess of the rentals it is required to pay.  The initial term of the
Company's lease expired February 29, 1984, and the lease is currently in its
second ten-year renewal term.  The Company has options to renew the lease for
two additional ten-year terms.  The rent payable by the Company is $92,000 per
annum during each of the first two renewal terms, and the fair rental value of
the premises during each of the last two renewal terms.  The Company has a
first- refusal option to purchase the premises in the event the lessor proposes
to sell the premises to a third party.  See also, "Executive Compensation -
Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation."

    In the opinion of management, the transactions described above are on
terms at least as favorable as could be obtained from unaffiliated third
parties.

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS
- - ---------------------
    For a discussion of the employment agreements between the Company and
each of Messrs.  Whitmire, Close and Clare, see "Executive Compensation -
Employment Agreements."






         CONVERSION OF OPTIONS

         In connection with the Whitmire Merger, options to purchase Whitmire
common stock were automatically converted into options to purchase a number of
Class A Common Shares equal to the number of shares of Whitmire common stock
issuable immediately prior to the Whitmire Merger multiplied by the exchange
ratio used for the Whitmire Merger.  Accordingly, options to purchase Whitmire
common stock held by Messrs.  Whitmire, Close and Clare were converted into
options to purchase Class A Common Shares of the Company ("Cardinal Exchange
Options") at exercise prices ranging from less than $.01 to $2.20 per share as
follows:  Mr. Whitmire -- 532,333 shares; Mr. Close -- 146,125 shares; Mr.
Clare -- 52,187 shares.


         REDEMPTION OF WHITMIRE PREFERRED STOCK

         Immediately prior to the completion of the Whitmire Merger, and as a
condition to such completion, Whitmire redeemed all of its issued and
outstanding Senior Preferred Stock and Series A Preferred Stock at the
redemption price of $100 per share, plus cumulated and unpaid dividends,
resulting in redemption payments to MD and CEA of $13,598,000 and $6,558,000,
respectively.  As described above, MD was dissolved shortly following the
Whitmire Merger.  Of the $13,598,000 in redemption payments to MD, $10,200,182
was for the benefit of Apollo and $3,398,248 was for the benefit of CEA.



         WHITMIRE REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

         In connection with the Whitmire Merger, the Company granted to Apollo,
CEA, and Mr. Whitmire (collectively, the "Whitmire Stockholders") certain
rights to require the Company to register under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "Securities Act") Class A Common Shares held by them (including
Class A Common Shares issuable to CEA upon conversion of Class B Common
Shares).  These rights include "demand" and "piggyback" registration rights and
are contained in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of October 11,
1993, as amended (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), among the Company, the
Whitmire Stockholders, and Robert D. Walter, Chairman of the Company.  Under
the Registration Rights Agreement, the Whitmire Stockholders are entitled to
require the Company to file a registration statement under the Securities Act
with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering the sale of their shares
(a "Required Registration") up to seven times in the five-year period ending
April 25, 1999, unless earlier terminated or extended as provided below.  The
Whitmire Stockholders may only request up to four Required Registrations during
the three-year period ending April 25, 1997.  The Company will pay all expenses
incurred in connection with up to four Required Registrations, exclusive of the
fees and expenses of counsel for selling stockholders.  In addition, the
selling Whitmire Stockholders will be responsible for any underwriters'
discounts and commissions attributable to the sale of their shares.


         The Company is not required to effect the first Required Registration
under the Registration Rights Agreement unless Whitmire Stockholders (together
with certain permitted transferees) making the request hold at least 1,250,000
Common Shares, and the Company is not required to effect subsequent Required
Registrations unless such persons hold (i) at least 937,500 Common Shares
acquired in the Whitmire Merger, or (ii) Common Shares acquired in the Whitmire
Merger with a fair market value of at least $25 million.  The Whitmire
Stockholders may not make a request for a Required Registration until 180 days
have elapsed since the completion of a prior Required Registration.  In
addition, the Company has the right to delay for up to 90 days the filing of a
registration statement with respect to a Required Registration if the Company's
Board of Directors determines such action is in the best interests of the
Company's shareholders, but the Company may not invoke a delay if at least 12
months have not elapsed from the end of any previous delay period.  These
delays and certain other events will extend on a day-for-day basis the five-and
three-year periods referred to in the preceding and following paragraphs.


         The Registration Rights Agreement also provides that the Whitmire
Stockholders have the right to include their Class A Common Shares in
registration statements filed by the Company in connection with primary or
secondary offerings for cash (with certain exceptions).  These "piggyback"
registration rights also terminate on April 25, 1999, unless earlier terminated
or extended.

         The demand and piggyback registration rights granted to (i) CEA, its
affiliates and successors (the "Chemical Holders"), and (ii) Apollo, its
affiliates and successors (the "Apollo Holders"), terminate prior to April 25,
1999, if the Chemical Holders or the Apollo Holders, as the case may be, either
(i) shall beneficially own fewer than 312,500 Common Shares or (ii) shall
acquire more than an additional 625,000 Common Shares without the Company's
consent.  The Registration Rights Agreement also limits the grant by the
Company of additional registration rights.





         All other schedules not listed above have been omitted as not
applicable or because the required information is included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or in notes thereto.


(a)(3) Exhibits required by S-K item 601:






Other long-term debt agreements of the Registrant are not filed pursuant to
Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K and the Registrant agrees to furnish
copies of such agreements to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon its
request.







                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          CARDINAL HEALTH, INC.

September 2, 1994                         By: /s/ Robert D. Walter
                                             --------------------------
                                          Robert D. Walter, Chairman and
                                          Chief Executive Officer
                                               

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
















CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
- - --------------------------------------

Schedule VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
For Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1994, Three Months ended June 30, 1993, Fiscal
- - -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Years March 31, 1993, and March 31, 1992 (In thousands)
- - -------------------------------------------------------


