
10-K405
0001.txt
FORM 10-K






                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   Form 10-K

                                  (Mark One)
            X ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
            -
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


                    For fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
                                          -----------------

                                      OR

           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


            For the Transition period from ___________to __________
                         Commission File Number 1-4601


                   Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited)
                   ----------------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


Netherlands Antilles                                       52-0684746
- --------------------                                       ----------
(State or other jurisdiction of                           (IRS Employer
incorporation or organization)                         Identification No.)

277 Park Avenue

New York, New York, U.S.A.                                 10172-0266

42, rue Saint-Dominique

Paris, France                                                 75007

Parkstraat 83,
The Hague,
The Netherlands                                              2514 JG

- -------------------------------------------              -----------------
(Addresses of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Codes)



 Registrant's telephone number in the United States, including area code, is:
                                (212) 350-9400.


                           (Cover page 1 of 2 pages)


          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered
- -------------------                    -----------------------------------------

Common Stock, Par Value $0.01                New York Stock Exchange
                                             Euronext Paris
                                             The London Stock Exchange
                                             Amsterdam Stock Exchange
                                             BES (Bourse Electronique Swisse)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                     None

Indicate by check mark whether Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

        YES  X                                           NO ___
            ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

                                      [X]

As of February 22, 2001, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates, calculated on the basis of the closing price on the NYSE
Composite Tape, was $31,888,385,858.

As of February 22, 2001, Number of Shares of Common Stock Outstanding:
573,125,405.


                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the following documents have been incorporated herein by reference
into the Parts indicated:

         Definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual General Meeting of
     Stockholders to be held April 11, 2001 ("Proxy Statement"), Part III.

                           (Cover page 2 of 2 pages)


PART I
- ------

Item 1         Business
- ------         --------

All references herein to "Registrant" and "Company" refer to Schlumberger
Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries. Registrant operates three businesses:
(1) Oilfield Services, (2) Resource Management Services, and (3) Test &
Transactions. The following discussion and analysis of results should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Oilfield Services
- -----------------

Oilfield Services is the leading supplier of services and technology to the
international petroleum industry. It provides virtually every type of service to
the upstream exploration and production industry. The business segment is
managed geographically. Within the four geographic areas are 28 GeoMarket
regions, which bring together geographically focused teams to meet local needs
and to provide customized solutions. New technology development is performed by
13 Service Groups to exploit synergies and to introduce innovative solutions
into the delivery of products and services within the GeoMarket regions. The
Service Groups reflect key areas of Schlumberger expertise. They are organized
into three Product Groups that represent the key processes that dominate oil
company requirements throughout the life cycle of the reservoir. Reservoir
Evaluation combines wireline and seismic services. Reservoir Development
combines all services relevant to well construction and well productivity:
directional drilling, pressure pumping, drilling fluids, testing, drilling bits,
electrical submersible pumps and completion products. Reservoir Management
combines integrated services, the software products, data management services
and consulting services of GeoQuest, gas compression services and the production
systems business.

Registant's oilfield services are marketed by its own personnel. The customer
base, business risks, and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform
across all services. There is a sharing of production facilities and research
centers; labor force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of
service, and price are the principal methods of competition. Competition varies
geographically with respect to the different services offered. While there are
numerous competitors, both large and small, Registrant believes that it is an
industry leader in providing seismic services, measurements-while-drilling and
logging-while-drilling services,and fully computerized wireline logging and
geoscience software and computing services. Land and marine seismic operations
and technologies are managed and developed by WesternGeco, a Schlumberger/Baker-
Hughes joint venture.

Resource Management Services
- ----------------------------

Resource Management Services (RMS) provides professional business services for
utilities, energy service providers and industry worldwide. Through consulting,
meter deployment and management, data collection and processing, and information
analysis, RMS helps clients achieve network optimization, greater operating
efficiency and increased customer loyalty in all utility sectors - water, gas,
electricity and heat.

RMS is a global systems integration provider to IT-driven electricity, gas and
water resource clients worldwide. RMS helps their customers build, deploy and
operate modern utility business models.



The Resource Management Services group delivers strategic consulting from front
to back office and to utility end-users, within or outside traditional utility
boundaries. Strategic methodologies, implementation and business processes
combined with smart measurement products, systems and services create greater
efficiencies and market value for RMS clients across their business chain
through RMS' proprietary Digital Utility(TM).

Behind its Digital Utility, RMS designs systems for management of electricity
distribution and usage (residential metering and energy management systems;
utility revenue collection systems; commercial, industrial, transmission and
distribution measurement and billing products and systems; and load
management systems); systems for management of gas usage (residential,
commercial and industrial gas meters; regulators, governors, safety valves,
stations and systems; gas treatment including filtration, odorization and
heating; network management; and prepayment systems); meters and systems for
management of residential, commercial and industrial water usage covering the
range of effective water distribution management and diverse heat distribution
and industrial applications; meter communication systems, including remote
metering and wireless communication systems for utility markets; distributed
measurement solutions, systems integration and data services; and services,
providing software and turnkey installation, repair and maintenance solutions to
add value in fully managed projects.

Test & Transactions
- -------------------

Test & Transactions provides consulting, integration and products for testing
and measurement of semiconductor devices, smart card-based transactions, IP
(Internet protocol) network security and wireless services.

Test & Transactions comprises four units: Network Solutions, e-Transactions
Solutions, Semiconductor Solutions and Smart Cards. Test & Transactions designs
and implements customized solutions to help customers improve time to market,
optimize business opportunities and increase productivity. Test & Transactions
provides information technology and communication services, including the
design, deployment, and operation of secure IP (Internet protocol) networks,
security and wireless applications. It provides microprocessor-based smart
cards, magnetic stripe cards, terminals, equipment and transaction management
systems for a wide range of industries, including retail and banking, parking
and mass transit, and campus communities. It also designs products and services
for testing, probing and handling semiconductor devices and complete network
element characterization and testing for the telecommunications industry.

Products of the Resource Management Services and the Test & Transactions
industry segments are primarily sold through Registrant's own sales force,
augmented through distributors and representatives. The nature of the product
range and customer profile allow for transferability of sales personnel and
cross-product sales forces in key geographic areas. Such teams operate in Asia,
Russia, South America and Central America. Product demand and pricing are
affected by global and national economic conditions. The price of products in
this industry segment varies from less than one hundred dollars to more than a
million dollars. There are numerous competitors with regard to these products,
and the principal methods of competition are price, performance, and service.





Acquisitions
- ------------

Information on acquisitions made by the Registrant or its subsidiaries appears
under the heading "Acquisitions" on page 37 of this 10-K Report.

GENERAL
- -------

Research & Development
- ----------------------

Research to support the engineering and development efforts of Registrant's
activities is conducted at Schlumberger Austin Product Center, Austin, Texas;
Schlumberger Doll Research, Ridgefield, Connecticut; Schlumberger Cambridge
Research, Cambridge, England, and at Montrouge, France; Stavanger, Norway;
Moscow, Russia and Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.



Patents
- -------

While Registrant seeks and holds numerous patents, no particular patent or group
of patents is considered material to Registrant's business.

Seasonality
- -----------

Although weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect delivery of
oilfield services, the widespread geographic location of such services precludes
the overall business from being characterized as seasonal. However, because
oilfield services are provided in the Northern Hemisphere, severe winter weather
can temporarily affect the delivery of such services and products in the winter
months.

Customers and Backlog of Orders
- -------------------------------

No single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Oilfield Services has
no backlog since it is primarily service rather than product related. Resource
Management Services and Test & Transactions had respective backlogs of orders,
believed to be firm, of $460 million and $430 million at December 31, 2000, and
$417 million and $314 million at December 31, 1999. There is no assurance that
any of the current backlog will actually result in sales.

Government Contracts
- --------------------

No material portion of Registrant's business is subject to renegotiation of
profits or termination of contracts by the US Government.

Employees
- ---------

As of December 31, 2000, Registrant had approximately 60,000 employees.

Non-US Operations
- -----------------

Registrant's non-US operations are subject to the usual risks which may affect
such operations. Such risks include unsettled political conditions in certain
areas, exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions,
exchange controls, and currency fluctuations. Although it is impossible to
predict such occurrences or their effect on the Registrant, management believes
these risks to be acceptable.




Environmental Protection
- ------------------------

Compliance with governmental provisions relating to the protection of the
environment does not materially affect Registrant's capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position.

Financial Information
- ---------------------

Financial information by segment for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998 is given on pages 45, 46 and 47 of this 10-K report, within the "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements".

Item 2         Properties
- ------         ----------

Registrant owns or leases manufacturing facilities, administrative offices,
service centers, research centers, sales offices and warehouses in North
America, Latin America, Europe, Africa, Australia, New Zealand, and Asia. Some
facilities are owned in fee and some are held through long-term leases. No
significant lease is scheduled to terminate in the near future, and Registrant
believes comparable space is readily obtainable should any lease expire without
renewal. Registrant believes all of its properties are generally well maintained
and adequate for the intended use.

The principal manufacturing facilities related to Oilfield Services are owned in
fee or leased. Outside of the United States, they are located at Stonehouse,
England; Clamart, France; Fuchinobe, Japan; Belfast, Northern Ireland; Horten
and Bergen, Norway; Inverurie, Scotland; and in Singapore.

Within the United States, the principal manufacturing facilities of the Oilfield
Services are located in Lawrence, Kansas; Bartlesville, Oklahoma; Austin,
Houston, La Marque, Rosharon, and Sugar Land, Texas.

Outside of the United States, the principal owned or leased facilities related
to Resource Management Services are located at Buenos Aires, Argentina;
Adelaide, Australia; Schwechat, Austria; Brussels, Belgium; Americana and
Campinas, Brazil; Trois Rivieres, Quebec, Canada; Santiago, Chile; Chongqing,
China; Bogota, Colombia; Bagnolet, Chasseneuil, Hagenau, Macon, Massy, and
Reims, France; Ettlingen, Hameln, Karlsruhe, and Oldenburg, Germany; Dordrecht,
Holland; Godollo, Hungary; Liparang, Indonesia; Asti, Frosinone, and Naples,
Italy; Mexico City, Mexico; Lima, Peru; Famalicao, Portugal; Atlantis, South
Africa; Montornes, Spain; Taipei County, Taiwan; Kiev, Ukraine; Great Harwood,
Port Glasgow and Stretford in the United Kingdom.

Within the United States, Resource Management Services facilities are located in
Tallassee, Alabama; San Carlos, California; Norcross, Georgia; Neponset,
Illinois; Owenton, Kentucky, and Oconee, South Carolina.

Outside of the United States, the principal owned or leased facilities of Test &
Transactions are located in Buenos Aires, Argentina; Sydney, Australia; Curitiba
and Sao Paulo, Brazil; Santiago, Chile; Changsha, Hong Kong and Shenyang, China;
Bogota, Colombia; Besancon, Chambray-les-Tours, Orleans, Pont Audemer, and St.
Etienne, France; Frankfurt and Munich,




Germany; Jakarta, Indonesia; Fuchinobe, Japan; Mexico City, Mexico; Lima, Peru;
Barcelona, Spain; Hsinchu, Taiwan; Felixstowe, Ferndown and London in the United
Kingdom; Montevideo, Uruguay; and Caracas, Venezuela; and


Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

Within the United States, facilities of Test & Transactions are located in
Mobile, Alabama; San Jose and Simi Valley, California; Owings Mill, Maryland;
Concord, Massachusetts; Moorestown, New Jersey; Columbus, Ohio; and Houston,
Texas.

The following locations serve both Resource Management Services and Test &
Transactions: Beijing, China; Montrouge, France; Milan, Italy; New Delhi, India;
Jakarta, Indonesia; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; St. Petersburg, Russia, and
Felixstowe in the United Kingdom.


See also "Research & Development", on page 3 for a description of research
facilities.

Item 3         Legal Proceedings
- ------         -----------------

The information with respect to Item 3 is set forth under the heading
"Contingencies" (page 44 of this 10-K Report) within the "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements" as part of Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data".

Item 4         Submission of matters to a vote of security holders
- ------         ---------------------------------------------------

No matters were submitted to a vote of Registrant's Security holders during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

Information with respect to the executive officers of the Registrant and their
ages as of March 1, 2000 is set forth below. The positions have been held for at
least five years, except where stated.

Name                     Age  Present Position and Five-Year Business Experience
- ---------------------  ------ --------------------------------------------------

D. Euan Baird            63     Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.

Victor E. Grijalva       62     Vice Chairman since April 1998;
                                Executive Vice President - Oilfield Services,
                                   1994 to April 1998.

Jack Liu                 51     Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
                                   Officer and Chief Accounting Officer, since
                                January 1999; Controller, July 1998 to December
                                31,1998;
                                President - Measurement & Systems Asia,
                                   October 1993 to June 1998.

Andrew Gould             54     Executive Vice President - Oilfield Services,
                                   since January 1999;
                                Executive Vice President - OFS Products,
                                   February 1998 to January 1999;
                                President - Wireline & Testing,





Name                     Age  Present Position and Five-Year Business Experience
- ---------------------  ------ --------------------------------------------------
                                   October 1993 to February 1998.

Clermont A. Matton       59     Executive Vice President - Resource Management
                                   Services, since June 1997;
                                Executive Vice President - Measurement & System,
                                   1993 to June 1997.

Irwin Pfister            56     Executive Vice President - Test & Transactions,
                                   since June 1997;
                                General Manager - Automated Test Equipment,
                                   June 1997 and prior.

James L. Gunderson       45     Secretary and General Counsel, since January
                                1999;
                                Deputy General Counsel, October 1994 to January
                                1999.

Pierre E. Bismuth        56     Vice President - Personnel.

Jean Chevallier          53     Vice President - Information Technology,
                                   since February 1999;
                                President - Omnes, August 1994 to February 1999.

Mark Danton              44     Vice President - Director of Taxes, since
                                January 1, 1999; Deputy
                                Director of Taxes, January 1995 to January 1999.

Philippe Lacour-Gayet    53     Vice President and Chief Scientist; since
                                January 2001;
                                Chief Scientist, July 1997 to January 2001;
                                Vice President and General Manager Schlumberger
                                Riboud Product Center, December 1995 to July
                                1997.

J-D. Percevault          55     Vice President - European Affairs.

Rex Ross                 57     Vice President - Communications, since October
                                1999;
                                President - Omnes, January to September 1999;
                                President - Oilfield Services North America,
                                1998;
                                President - GeoQuest, 1993 through 1997.

Jean-Marc Perraud        53     Treasurer since January 1, 1999;
                                Vice President - Director of Taxes,
                                   1993 through December 1998.



PART II
- -------

Item 5         Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
- ------         ----------------------------------------------------
               Stockholder Matters
               -------------------

As of December 31, 2000, there were 572,724,694 shares of the Common Stock of
the Registrant outstanding, exclusive of 94,361,099 shares held in Treasury, and
held by approximately 23,000 stockholders of record. The principal United States
market for Registrant's Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange.

Registrant's Common Stock is also traded on the Amsterdam, Euronext Paris,
London, and BES (Bourse Electonique Suisse) stock exchanges.

Common Stock Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share
- -----------------------------------------------------------

The information with respect to this portion of Item 5 is set forth under the
heading "Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share" on page
23 of this 10-K Report.



Item 6    Selected Financial Data
- ------    -----------------------

FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
                                   (Stated in millions except per share amounts)





                                   (Stated in millions except per share amounts)



/1/ Includes the Retail Petroleum Systems (RPS) business sold on October 1,
    1998.
/2/ Restated for comparative purposes.
/3/ In 1999, the provision for income taxes, before the tax benefit on the
    charge and the tax expense on the gain on the sale of RPS financial
    instruments, was $133 million. In 1998, the provision for income taxes,
    before the tax benefit on the third quarter charge, was $340 million. In
    1996, the provision for income taxes, before recognition of the US tax loss
    carryforward benefit and the tax effect of the unusual items, was $226
    million.
/4/ In 2000, 1999 and 1998, excluding the charges.

/5/ Liquidity is defined as cash plus short-term and long-term investments
    less debt.



Item 7   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
- ------   -----------------------------------------------------------
         and Results of Operations
         -------------------------


Schlumberger operates three businesses: Oilfield Services, Resource Management
Services and Test & Transactions. (Stated in millions)




/1/  Pretax segment income represents income before taxes and minority interest,
     excluding interest income and interest expense, and the 2000 and 1999
     charges.

/2/  Test & Transactions results include Omnes, formerly a joint venture which
     was 100% acquired during the third quarter of 1999.

/3/  Restated for comparative purposes

Oilfield Services
- -----------------
On November 30, 2000, Schlumberger and Baker Hughes closed the transaction to
create the seismic joint venture WesternGeco. WesternGeco comprises the seismic
fleets, data processing assets, exclusive and nonexclusive multiclient surveys,
and other assets of Schlumberger Geco-Prakla and Baker Hughes Western
Geophysical. WesternGeco is owned 70% by Schlumberger and 30% by Baker Hughes.
The creation of WesternGeco is a natural alignment of two leading seismic
companies which have complementary markets, technologies and cultural values.
WesternGeco will focus on delivering the best possible seismic services and
technology in the industry to oil and gas customers in a safe and efficient
manner.

2000 Results
Moderate growth was recorded during the first half of the year with sharp
sequential growth in the second half of the year led by increased activity in
North America and higher demand for Reservoir Development services. The seismic
down cycle, which started at the beginning of 1999, continued through the first
half of the year. The second half of 2000 saw significant improvement leading to
higher Schlumberger activity due to the introduction of new generation seismic
Q* Marine and Q Land technology and increased multiclient data sales.

Oilfield Services operating revenue increased 20% compared with 1999 as the
worldwide M-I rig count grew 30%.

NORTH AMERICA
North America operating revenue increased 46% versus 1999, in line with the M-I
rig count which grew 47%. Increased activity, which started in the third quarter
of 1999,



continued into the beginning of 2000 with a significant increase in drilling
activity due to the continued shift to natural gas exploration and development.
Reservoir Evaluation Wireline and Reservoir Development recorded the year's
strongest growth. Pretax segment income increased 206%.

LATIN AMERICA
Latin America operating revenue increased 22% for the year, consistent with a
23% increase in the M-I rig count. There was strong growth in the second half of
2000 led by Reservoir Development activity. Pretax segment income increased 333%
due to improved profitability in Resevoir Evaluation Wireline and Reservoir
Development.

EUROPE/CIS/WEST AFRICA
Operating revenue increased 6% in the Europe/CIS/West Africa Area during 2000,
consistent with a 10% increase in the M-I rig count. Results in the first
quarter were lower year over year due to continued flat activity and a sharp
decline in seismic activity in this region for the same period. The increase in
activity in the second half of the year was moderate compared with the other
Areas. Pretax segment income increased 66%.

OTHER EASTERN HEMISPHERE
Revenue in the Other Eastern Hemisphere Area increased 5%, in line with a 5%
increase in the M-I rig count. Lower first quarter results resulted from the
continued industry down cycle, and growth was moderate for the remainder of the
year due to a slow increase in activity. Stronger sequential growth in the
second half of the year resulted from increased activity in the Middle East and
improved demand for Reservoir Development services. Pretax segment income
increased 6%.

1999 Results
On December 30, Schlumberger completed the spin-off to its stockholders of its
offshore contract drilling business, Sedco Forex. Following the spin-off, on
December 31, Sedco Forex merged with Transocean Offshore Inc., which changed its
name to Transocean Sedco Forex Inc. The transaction created the world's largest
offshore drilling company and the third largest oilfield services company by
market capitalization. Upon completion of the merger, Schlumberger stockholders
owned approximately 52% of the shares of Transocean Sedco Forex, and Transocean
Offshore shareholders owned the remaining 48%. Schlumberger retained no
ownership in the combined company. Sedco Forex is treated as a discontinued
operation for all periods.

After continued slow activity across all regions in the first half of the year,
Oilfield Services activity in North America started to improve in the third
quarter as oil and gas companies continued to gradually increase their spending.
The seismic services industry experienced a severe downturn throughout 1999.
This negative impact was felt across all regions within Schlumberger, most
notably in North America, Europe and Asia, and resulted in a significant
decrease in seismic revenue.

Oilfield Services revenue declined 25% compared with 1998, in line with the
estimated 23% reduction in exploration and production (E&P) expenditures, and
consistent with the 22% fall in the average rig count.



NORTH AMERICA
North American revenue fell 30%, with a 22% decline in the average rig count.
The slowdown was particularly dramatic in the first half of the year, with the
average rig count down 40%. All product groups ended the year with lower revenue
than in 1998. Pretax segment income dropped 64%.

Increased activity during the fourth quarter was mainly focused on gas
development projects, primarily in the lower 48 states and Canada.

LATIN AMERICA
Latin American revenue fell 26%, in line with the 23% decrease in the average
rig count. The reduced activity resulted from a slowdown in all product groups
with the exception of drilling services, which saw a 41% increase due to the
commencement of MPSV* multipurpose service vessel operations on Lake Maracaibo
in Venezuela. Pretax segment income was down 88%, mainly due to lower prices and
reduced activity across the region.

EUROPE/CIS/WEST AFRICA
Revenue declined 28% in the Europe/CIS/West Africa region, in line with the
decline in the average rig count. Revenue from all product groups and
geographical areas fell, with the exception of the CIS, where growth in pressure
pumping activity fueled a notable increase in revenue over 1998. Pretax segment
income for the region decreased 60%.

OTHER EASTERN HEMISPHERE
Revenue in Other Eastern Hemisphere declined 22%, led by significantly lower
activity in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Australia GeoMarket areas.
Compared with 1998, the average rig count fell 16% in the Middle East and 20% in
Asia. Revenue from all services fell, with the exception of Reservoir Management
as the MPSV Bima continued to provide value-added services to customers in
Indonesia. Pretax segment income fell 45%.

1998 Results
After continued strong growth in the first half of the year Oilfield Services
activity slowed in the third quarter and reversed direction in the fourth
quarter as oil companies reduced spending or cancelled projects.

Oilfield Services revenue grew 2%, despite a decline in the average rig count of
13%. The growth resulted from continued deployment of new technologies and the
impact of the new geographic organization, which focused on providing customized
solutions for customers. The acquisition of Camco, completed on August 31,
strengthened our portfolio with leading technology and expertise in smart
completions, production services and drilling products.

NORTH AMERICA
North American revenue was 5% below 1997, despite a 17% decline in average rig
count. The slowdown was particularly significant in the second half of the year,
with the average rig count down by 38% in the fourth quarter compared with the
same period last year. Wireline, testing and directional drilling services ended
the year with lower revenue than in 1997. Pretax segment income dropped 24%.



LATIN AMERICA
A revenue gain of 8% in Latin America resulted from strong data services,
wireline services and testing services, despite the 12% fall in the average rig
count. Revenue from Mexico increased by 25% compared with 1997, with a large
contribution from the Burgos gas fields. Pretax segment income was 18% lower,
mainly due to the reduction of activity in Venezuela.

EUROPE/CIS/WEST AFRICA
Revenue was up 2% in the Europe/CIS/West Africa region due to increased
directional drilling and data management services, despite an 11% fall in the
average rig count (excluding CIS rigs). Revenue from the CIS increased
significantly due to the start-up of new projects in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan,
and revenue from West Africa showed firm growth, supported by strong land
drilling activity. Pretax segment income fell 7%.

OTHER EASTERN HEMISPHERE
Revenue grew by 4% compared with 1997, while the average rig count increased 1%.
Pretax segment income increased 7%. Asia revenue was 7% above 1997, mainly due
to East Asia and Indonesia and with strong increases in all service lines except
seismic services, which was flat with 1997. Revenue in the Middle East was up
3%, with the overall growth slowing in the second half of the year, notably from
seismic services.

Resource Management Services
- ----------------------------
2000 Results
In 2000, pressure on utility prices and the negative impact of currency
movements in Europe resulted in a continued downturn for the utility industry.
The effects of deregulation in Europe meant increased competitive pricing in the
industry, opening the market to new players.

In this unstable environment, Schlumberger took strategic steps during the year
to build its solutions offerings through the acquisition in May of the assets of
CellNet Data Systems for $209 million, the leading provider of telemetry
technology for the development and deployment of large-scale automatic meter
reading (AMR) systems. The combination of our Resource Management Services (RMS)
utility measurement systems, products and services with CellNet AMR technology
and integrated networks significantly strengthened the RMS position in
delivering advanced value-added services to utilities and energy resource
providers. In November, Schlumberger acquired a majority stake in the Convergent
Group, a leading builder of digital enterprises that will complement the
Schlumberger value-added solution approach to business in the utility sector. As
another significant strategic step, RMS divested its gas activities in Europe.

Excluding the divested activities and revenue of CellNet and of the Convergent
Group, RMS revenue decreased 8% for the year compared with 1999, but was flat,
excluding the negative impact of the appreciation of the dollar against the
euro. Orders fell 18% year over year. Strong activity in the US electricity and
water metering markets, in the UK gas market and throughout Asia compensated for
decreases in electricity metering in Italy, France and Central Europe. The
sharpest revenue decreases were recorded across Europe, due in part to the
fourth quarter divestiture of the gas service businesses in Europe. Revenue
contributions continued to come from North America and Asia, where market



expansion, the receipt of several major orders and the CellNet asset acquisition
led to higher growth. Excluding discontinued activities and acquisitions, pretax
segment income improved 31%, reflecting better operating conditions in North
America and the benefit of cost reduction efforts over the last four years. The
appreciation of the US dollar against the Euro did not have a significant impact
on pretax segment income.

In North America, revenue increased 18%, and orders decreased 18% compared with
1999. Revenue growth resulted mainly from stronger electricity and water meter
sales and from the deployment of the fixed network at PECO Energy. Signed in
October 1999, the PECO contract calls for the installation of 750,000 new
CENTRON* static meters with built-in AMR capability and the provision of reading
services over thirteen years. In 2000, Schlumberger acquired an exclusive
utility industry license for Metricom Inc.'s UtiliNet(TM) RF (radio-frequency)
technology to enhance the ability of RMS to provide a broader array of high-end
data collection and control systems solutions to its electric, water and gas
customers. Growth in the second half of the year was generated by
CellNet-related orders and by strong communication module sales, AMR fees and
the introduction of an improved time-of-use service. RMS also announced the
signing of a 15-year contract to provide data services to 150,000 of its
customers in the Kansas City metropolitan area.

In Europe, revenue and orders both declined 6%, excluding divested activities.
Decreases in activity were recorded in most countries, except Spain, Portugal
and the UK, and across all product lines. Growth in the UK was driven by strong
residential meter demand including an agreement for the sale of more than
650,000 U6* gas meters. As part of the increased focus on the solutions business
in Europe, RMS acquired Energy Auditing Agency Ltd. (TEAM), a UK-based energy
analysis and management software and services provider which serves more than
600 companies. TEAM technology should accelerate the introduction of RMS
advanced web-based data management services. TEAM technology will also be
adapted for deployment in North America.

South American revenue was flat, and orders rose 7% compared with 1999,
reflecting the recovery of demand in Brazil after a depressed year in 1999 due
to the currency devaluation. However, a lack of activity in Colombia, Peru and
Venezuela offset all gains in the second half of the year.

Revenue in Asia increased 17%, and orders rose 10% year over year, due mainly to
improvements in manufacturing efficiency and to strong electricity metering
activity. A significant contract for the sale of electricity meters to China,
and a large order from the Republic of Kyrgyzstan for recently launched Gallus*
1000 gas meters, contributed to the revenue growth.

1999 Results
Throughout 1999, the uncertainty created by deregulation, privatization and
globalization in the utility industry continued to delay investment by many
utilities in new products and services. Still, in electricity and gas markets
around the world there were encouraging signs of change. In the US and parts of
Europe, where deregulation has advanced the furthest, major contract awards have
demonstrated the increased interest in the Schlumberger solutions approach.



Resource Management Services revenue declined 6% and orders fell 3% compared
with 1998. The downturn resulted from continuing pressure on prices and the
negative impact of currency movements. Adverse economic conditions in Brazil,
which underwent currency devaluation, and in the CIS, also contributed to the
downturn. Pretax segment income dropped 71%, reflecting margin deterioration and
charges during the year. Contributions came from North America and Asia, where
market growth and higher shipments made a positive impact on business.

In North America, revenue increased 1%, while orders rose 7%, reflecting a
strong new housing market in the US and Canada. Demand for electricity meters
was high, including a contribution from the new CENTRON* static meter with
built-in AMR (automatic meter reading) capabilities. An agreement signed with
PECO Energy of Philadelphia in October included the installation of 750,000 of
these new meters. Schlumberger will also provide asset management and metering
data services to PECO for over more than two million metering points over a
15-year period.

European revenue declined 7% and orders slipped 9% due to continued price
pressure, lower demand for electricity products in the UK and ongoing
unfavorable business conditions in the CIS. In Stockholm, a major thermal energy
data management project, begun in the third quarter, progressed on schedule and
highlighted the trend toward integrated metering data networks as well as our
ability to provide large-scale, customized solutions. In France, Schlumberger
won a contract to supply 20,000 Gallus* residential gas meters equipped with
radio communication modules developed jointly by Schlumberger and Itron. In
Belgium, a large utility confirmed an order for the first phase of a
multiresource (electricity and gas) prepayment system using the TaleXus Vendor*
system and PayGuard* smart card-based vending units for 24,000 residences.

In South America, revenue dropped 22% and orders decreased 19%. Business was
affected by a significant fall-off in Brazil's domestic activity due to broad
public spending cuts and the devaluation of the national currency.

Revenue in Asia increased 31% and orders jumped 66%, reflecting both a return of
new investment in the region after the economic downturn last year and continued
growth in exports. Shipments of water meters commenced from a new factory in
South Australia, and there was a rise in shipments of residential electricity
meters to Taiwan and commercial and industrial meters to Thailand.

1998 Results
RMS revenue fell 7% in 1998 compared with 1997. The decline resulted from lower
demand for electricity and gas products as well as from difficult financial
environments in developing countries. Product orders were flat for the year.

In Europe, revenue declines caused by industrial overcapacity and price
competition were offset by higher electricity sales to EDP, the Portuguese
national electric company. North American revenue was down 4%, reflecting market
uncertainty caused by ongoing electricity deregulation in the US. However,
revenue from Africa and the Middle East rose 29%, driven by stronger gas and
water meter shipments to North Africa and Turkey.



Pretax segment income dropped 30%, reflecting margin deterioration due to lower
sales in North and South America, France and Germany. Favorable contributions
came from South and Central Europe and from savings as a result of the
restructuring of RMS, which was initiated in 1996.

Test & Transactions
- -------------------
2000 Results
Test & Transactions revenue growth of 19% and orders growth of 26% versus 1999,
resulted from significantly higher activity levels in the Smart Cards and
Network Solutions businesses. Pretax segment income fell 29%, mostly due to
deterioration in the Semiconductor Solutions business and to recruiting and
training investments in our new consulting businesses.

During the year, Schlumberger realigned its Test & Transactions activities in
order to better address customer needs and to expand the opportunities for
integrating our consulting, integration and network services expertise into the
markets Schlumberger serves, including the oil and gas, utility, wireless,
finance, telecom and corporate IT security markets. Meanwhile, Schlumberger took
aggressive steps to expand the Network Solutions business, the most significant
being the acquisition of Data Marine Systems (DMS) in October.

Smart Cards revenue increased 25% versus 1999. Orders grew 32% year over year.
The healthy rise in orders for smart card-based solutions was driven by
continued outstanding growth of the mobile communications market and the
beginning of the rollout of smart card applications in North America. In the US,
Schlumberger won the largest-ever smart card IT security order. The Cyberflex*
Java(TM)-programmable cards will be used to provide secure access to customer's
data networks and facilities. At Cartes 2000, the annual smart cards industry
forum, Schlumberger received the prestigious Sesame Award for a secure
electronic mobile banking system. On February 9, 2001, Schlumberger announced
that it had signed a definitive agreement to acquire Bull CP8, a leading smart
card technology provider, for approximately $325 million.

Semiconductor Solutions revenue increased 4% year over year. Ongoing industry
cutbacks in capital expenditures, which stalled delivery of new mixed-signal
testers in the second half of the year, and the lack of a market for Rambus(TM)
dynamic random access memory (RDRAM(TM)) testers adversely impacted
profitability. Orders grew 11% compared with 1999.

Network Solutions revenue grew 64% versus 1999. Orders jumped 46% over the same
period. Schlumberger continued to invest heavily to build its technology base
and expand its offerings in consulting and network management. In October,
Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Data Marine Systems Limited (DMS), a
global provider of telecommunications technical consulting, system engineering,
integration services and secure remote connectivity. This acquisition will
diversify the global network services capabilities of Schlumberger and expand
the Network Solutions customer base to over 100 companies in the oil and gas,
health and mobile communications industries.

E-Transactions Solutions revenue declined 13% year over year. Orders rose 12%
over the same period on higher terminals and systems bookings for the e-City and
e-Payment



businesses. Manufacturing delays resulted from semiconductor shortages in the
first half of the year, as well as a slowdown in Pay & Display* parking meter
shipments as European customers postponed deliveries to await new euro-
compatible products.

1999 Results
Revenue at Test & Transactions declined 4% compared with 1998. Orders rose 16%.
The year was characterized by volatility due to changing business environments
in several Test & Transactions market segments. The smart cards business, which
is derived in part from emerging economies, suffered from pricing pressures
associated with highly competitive markets such as mobile communications.
However, the introduction of new smart products contributed to Test &
Transactions revenue. Market uncertainties associated with the Rambus memory
device rollout and a softening in the high-end logic test business negatively
impacted revenue.

Cards revenue improved 9% versus 1998, while orders increased 14%. During the
year, Schlumberger successfully launched the Cyberflex Simera* Java-programmable
subscriber identity module (SIM) card and Cryptoflex* e-gate* card into the
booming GSM and PC markets. The rapid growth of the mobile communications
market, which was accompanied by increasing demand for multiapplication and
open-platform cards, provided a strong impetus for the accelerated adoption and
continued use of the Simera cards. However, despite a strong increase in orders
for SIM cards over 1998, global price pressure significantly reduced the revenue
generated. Card sales grew in both Asia and Europe, the two most prominent
consumer markets for smart cards.

Semiconductor Solutions revenue decreased 28%, while orders increased 9%.
Fourteen new products were introduced during the year, and Schlumberger entered
the front-end (process equipment) semiconductor equipment business with the
first shipments of the Odyssey 300* wafer defect detection system. Although the
initiative to focus on RDRAM technology resulted in an early leadership position
for Schlumberger, the slow pace of the emerging RDRAM market delayed orders.

Network Solutions revenue increased 47% versus 1998, and orders grew 65%. In
July 1999, Schlumberger purchased its 50% share of the Omnes joint venture.

E-Transactions revenue grew 3% versus 1998, while orders fell 8%. During 1999,
Schlumberger introduced new MagIC* 6000 payment terminals into the strong retail
market with great success. In addition, e-City solutions sales showed a
significant increase over 1998, with key contributions from Parking and Mass
Transit applications.

1998 Results
Compared with 1997, revenue for Test & Transactions rose 15%, while orders fell
16%. The Cards business grew 34%, while Semiconductor Solutions activity fell
2%. Both businesses experienced volatile business cycles but outpaced their
respective markets. In 1998, smart card volume increased more than 40% compared
with the industry's growth rate of 32%. Despite an industry downturn,
Semiconductor Solutions increased market share for mixed-signal and logic test
systems. In October, the Retail Petroleum Systems business was sold to Tokheim
Corporation.



The strong revenue growth at Cards came from the mobile phone SIM card market
and from financial and banking cards. Schlumberger concentrated on growing its
share of key smart card markets--mobile phones, finance and banking, and
emerging markets-which presented significant opportunities for the smart
card-based solutions and systems integration businesses. One successful system
integration business was exemplified by the launch of the Cyberflex Mobile
Solution. This integrated product and service offering included a Cyberflex
Simera smart card, a software developer's kit with an easy-to-use SIMnario*
graphical interface for rapid prototyping, the Aremis* SIM-based service
management system and the Aremis marketing platform. Schlumberger also offered a
wide range of consulting, engineering and turnkey project management services to
facilitate the design of these systems.

E-Transactions revenue increased 48%, benefiting mostly from the e-City
Solutions business, which comprises parking and mass transit systems. The
Stelio* parking system was successfully introduced and made a significant
contribution to revenue. Network Solutions revenue grew 8%.

At Semiconductor Solutions, strong orders in the first half of the year were
offset by the decline during the second half. To reflect the downturn in the
semiconductor business, Schlumberger implemented a cost reduction plan, but
maintained investments for critical new product developments.

During 1998, Schlumberger introduced D-RDRAM(TM), SDRAM and RDRAM memory test
systems. The new RDX2200* series of RDRAM test systems was anticipated to
establish a new market standard for test accuracy, throughput and cost. The
RDX2200 series of test systems owes its accuracy and performance advantage to
Semiconductor Solutions test technology expertise in high-end logic design and
test methodology. Also successfully introduced in 1998 was the IDS2000* probe
system. This laser-based system, focused on the emerging flip chip market,
provides the same diagnostic capabilities as high-end e-beam tools. Several
IDS2000 systems were installed during the year.

In 1998, the SABER* (Schlumberger Advanced Business and Engineering Resources)
services group was formed and achieved profitability. The SABER business model,
which derives from the Schlumberger service culture, is an innovative concept
that provides consulting, turnkey engineering and operational services for the
semiconductor industry.





Income - Continuing Operations
- ------------------------------

                 (Stated in millions except per share amounts)

                         Net Income                Earnings per share
                                              -----------------------------
                       from Continuing

                         Operations              Basic           Diluted
                     -------------------      ------------     ------------

2000/1/               $             735        $     1.29       $     1.27
                     ===================      ============     ============

1999/2/               $             329        $     0.60       $     0.58
                     ===================      ============     ============

1998/3/               $             618        $     1.14       $     1.10
                     ===================      ============     ============




/1/  Includes a net, after-tax and minority interest charge of $3 million ($0.00
     per share - diluted). For details, see Charges - Continuing Operations on
     page 34.

/2/  Includes an after-tax charge of $129 million ($0.23 per share-diluted). For
     details, see Charges - Continuing Operations on page 34.

/3/  Includes an after-tax charge of $368 million ($0.65 per share-diluted). For
     details, see Charges - Continuing Operations on page 34.

In 2000, Oilfield Services segment net income increased $302 million, or 75%, to
$704 million. Increases in E&P expenditures and in oil and gas prices, resulting
from increased oil demand and the lowest level of excess oil production capacity
in decades, were the underlying factors of the strong increases in most areas,
and notably in North America. Average worldwide rig count increased 30% compared
to 1999. Resource Management Services segment net income of $14 million was up
$9 million. Test & Transactions segment net income increased $4 million, or 13%,
to $34 million as record achievements in the Cards business were partially
offset by weaknesses in the eTransaction and Semiconductor activities and by
investment in the Network Solutions business.

In 1999, Oilfield Services segment net income decreased $551 million, or 58%, to
$402 million. All areas reported substantial declines as a result of the
worldwide reduction in E&P expenditures due to reduced oil prices, which led to
a 22% fall in average rig count. Resource Management Services operating net
income of $6 million was down $26 million, or 82%. Test & Transactions segment
net income decreased $25 million, or 46%, to $30 million, as stronger results
from Cards activities were more than offset by declines at Semiconductor, which
was negatively impacted by Rambus-related market uncertainties and by a
softening of the high-end logic test business for which it is a leading
supplier.

In 1998, Oilfield Services segment net income of $954 million was down 11%,
reflecting the 13% decrease in average rig count. The main decrease was in North
America, which was impacted by strong pricing pressure and a slowdown in
activity in the second half of the year. Resource Management Services segment
net income decreased $15 million, or 32%, largely due to market weakness as a
result of industry consolidation and privatization, compounded by the financial
crisis in emerging countries. Test & Transactions segment net income of $55
million was down 25% as growth in the Cards activities was offset by a severe
market decline in Semiconductor operations, due to curtailment of capital
expenditures by the industry in the latter half of the year.



Currency Risks

Refer to page 31, Translation of Non-US Currencies in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements, for a description of the Schlumberger policy on currency
hedging. There are no material unhedged assets, liabilities or commitments which
are denominated in other than a business's functional currency.

While changes in exchange rates do affect revenue, especially in the Resource
Management Services and Test & Transactions segments, they also affect costs.
Generally speaking, Schlumberger is currency neutral. For example, a 5% change
in average exchange rates of OECD currencies would have had no material effect
on consolidated revenue and net income.
Schlumberger businesses operate principally in US dollars, most European
currencies and most South American currencies.

In general, when the US dollar weakens against other currencies, consolidated
revenue increases, usually with no material effect on net income. This is
principally because the fall-through incremental margin in the Resource
Management Services and Test & Transactions segments offset the higher Oilfield
Services non-US dollar denominated expenses.

Research & Engineering

Expenditures by business segment were as follows:

                                                 (Stated in millions)
                                      2000         1999        1998
                                  ----------   ----------   ---------

Oilfield Services                     $ 364        $ 354       $ 371

Resources Management Services            53           57          57

Test & Transactions                     124          111         115

Other/1/                                  -            -          14
                                  ----------   ----------   ---------
                                      $ 541        $ 522       $ 557
                                  ==========   ==========   =========



/1/  Primarily comprises the Retail Petroleum Systems business sold on October
     1, 1998.

Interest Expense

Interest expense increased $83 million, to $276 million, in 2000 principally due
to higher average borrowing rates. The increase in interest expense in 1999 of
$56 million, to $193 million, reflected the significantly higher debt balances
incurred in 1998 by Schlumberger's principal US subsidiary relating to the
acquisition of Camco.




Charges - Continuing Operations

Schlumberger recorded the following after-tax and minority interest charges for
continuing operations in 2000, 1999 and 1998:

 .    In December 2000, $25 million primarily relating to the write down of
     certain inventory and severance costs in the Semiconductor Solutions
     business resulting from reduced activity levels in the semiconductor test
     market, $39 million related to the creation of the WesternGeco joint
     venture (including asset impairment and severance costs for Schlumberger's
     existing Geco-Prakla business), and a credit of $61 million from the gain
     on sale of two Gas Services businesses in Europe.
 .    In December 1999, $71 million primarily relating to the reduction of its
     marine seismic fleet due to depressed market conditions and the
     restructuring of its land drilling activity following the spin-off of its
     offshore drilling business to stockholders.
 .    In March 1999, $138 million primarily relating to the downsizing of its
     global Oilfield Services activities to meet prevailing market conditions,
     and a credit of $80 million from the gain on sale of financial instruments
     in connection with the 1998 sale of the Retail Petroleum Systems business.
 .    In September 1998, $368 million to reflect the estimated costs of
     consolidating resources and locations and making significant cuts in
     personnel necessitated by the E&P industry downturn.

The December 2000 charge included severance costs of $9 million (380 people)
none of which had been paid by December 31, 2000. Severance costs included in
the December 1999 charge (300 people), the March 1999 charge (4700 people) and
the September 1998 charge (6200 people) have been paid.



Liquidity

A measure of financial position is liquidity, defined as cash plus short-term
and long-term investments, less debt. The following table summarizes the change
in Schlumberger consolidated liquidity for each of the past three years:

                                                    (Stated in  millions)

                                                 2000       1999/1/    1998/1/
                                               --------   ---------   --------

Income from continuing operations              $   735     $   329    $   618
Gain on sale of businesses                         (61)         --         --
Charges                                             64         129        368
Depreciation & amortization/2/                   1,271       1,150      1,012
(Increase) decrease in working
  capital requirements                            (104)        165       (138)
Fixed asset additions/2/                        (1,546)     (1,019)    (1,463)
Dividends paid                                    (426)       (410)      (388)
Proceeds from
  employee stock plans                             229         174        139
Businesses (acquired) sold                        (921)       (135)        61
Exercise of stock warrants/3/                       --         450         --
Sale of financial instruments                       --         204         --
Drilling fluids joint venture                       --        (325)        --
Discontinued operations/4/                          --         (52)       107
Other                                              (50)       (160)      (112)
                                               -------     -------    -------
Net (decrease) increase in liquidity           $  (809)    $   500    $   204
Liquidity - beginning of period                  1,231         731        527
                                               -------     -------    -------
Liquidity - end of period                      $   422     $ 1,231    $   731
                                               =======     =======    =======



/1/ Reclassified, in part, for comparative purposes.
/2/ Including multiclient seismic data costs.
/3/ On December 16, 1999, Dow Chemical exercised a warrant to purchase
    15,153,018 shares of Schlumberger common stock. The warrant was received by
    Dow Chemical as part of the 1993 Transaction under which Schlumberger
    acquired Dow Chemical's 50% share of the Dowell Schlumberger joint venture.
/4/ 1999 includes $304 million received in settlement of intercompany balances
    between Schlumberger and Sedco Forex.

The current consolidated liquidity level, combined with liquidity expected from
operations, should satisfy future business requirements.



Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share
- ------------------------------------------------------------

Quarterly high and low prices for Schlumberger common stock as reported by the
New York Stock Exchange (composite transactions), together with dividends
declared per share in each quarter of 2000 and 1999, were:

                                       Price Range                 Dividends
                             ------------------------------
                                High               Low              Declared
                             ------------      ------------       ------------
QUARTERS
     First                $       84.375     $      53.500     $       0.1875
     Second                       84.250            66.813             0.1875
     Third                        88.875            68.625             0.1875
     Fourth                       86.375            61.125             0.1875

1999/1/
QUARTERS
     First                $       55.268     $      40.301     $       0.1875
     Second                       58.428            49.226             0.1875
     Third                        62.696            51.166             0.1875
     Fourth                       61.144            45.955             0.1875


/1/  Adjusted for the spin-off of the Schlumberger offshore contract drilling
     business on December 30, 1999 (see Discontinued Operations in the Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements).

The number of holders of record of Schlumberger common stock at December 31,
2000, was approximately 23,000. There are no legal restrictions on the payment
of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held in
the Schlumberger Treasury. US stockholders are not subject to any Netherlands
Antilles withholding or other Netherlands Antilles taxes attributable to
ownership of such shares.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------

The Consolidated Balance Sheet includes accruals for the estimated future costs
associated with certain environmental remediation activities related to the past
use or disposal of hazardous materials. Substantially all such costs relate to
divested operations and to facilities or locations that are no longer in
operation. Due to a number of uncertainties, including timing, scope of
remediation, future technology, regulatory changes and other factors, it is
possible that the ultimate remediation costs may exceed the amounts estimated.
However, in the opinion of management, such additional costs are not expected to
be material relative to consolidated liquidity, financial position or future
results of operations. Consistent with the Schlumberger commitment to protection
of the environment, safety and employee health, additional costs, including
capital expenditures, are incurred related to current operations.



New Accounting Standards
- ------------------------

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS 133,
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, which requires
that Schlumberger recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or
liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those instruments
at fair value. The standard is effective in the year 2001 for Schlumberger.
Occasionally, Schlumberger uses derivative instruments such as interest rate
swaps, currency swaps, forward currency contracts and foreign currency options.
Forward currency contracts provide a hedge against currency fluctuations on
assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency. Options are
usually entered into as a hedge against currency variations on firm commitments
generally involving the construction of long-lived assets.

Schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses
derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations
in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates.
Movements in foreign currency exchange rates pose a risk to Schlumberger's
operations as exchange rate changes may affect profitability and cash flow.
Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward exchange contracts, swaps and
options. Schlumberger also maintains an interest rate risk management strategy
that uses derivatives to minimize significant, unanticipated earnings
fluctuations caused by interest rate volatility. Schlumberger's specific goals
are (1) to manage interest rate sensitivity by modifying the repricing or
maturity characteristics of certain of its debt and (2) to lower (where
possible) the cost of borrowed funds.

By using derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to changes in
exchange rates and interest rates, Schlumberger exposes itself to credit risk
and market risk. Schlumberger minimizes the credit risk by entering into
transactions with high-quality counterparties, limiting the exposure to each
counterparty and monitoring the financial condition of its counterparties.
Market risk is managed through the setting and monitoring of parameters that
limit the types and degree of market risk which are acceptable.

On January 1, 2001, the adjustments to Other Comprehensive Income and Net Income
to recognize all derivative instruments as either an asset or liability and
measure them at fair value were not material.

Euro Disclosures
- ----------------

On January 1, 1999, the euro became the official single currency of the European
Economic and Monetary Union. As of this date, the conversion rates of the
national currencies of the eleven member states adopting the euro were fixed
irrevocably. The national currencies will initially remain in circulation as
nondecimal subunits of the euro and will be replaced by euro bills and coins by
March 2002. During the transition period between January 1999 and January 2002,
public and private parties may pay for goods and services using either the euro
or the national currency on a "no compulsion, no prohibition" basis.

Schlumberger believes that the implementation of the euro can be performed
according to the schedule defined by the European Union. Schlumberger does not
expect the total cost of addressing this issue to be material to financial
condition, results of operations and liquidity.



Forward-looking Statements
- --------------------------

Schlumberger cautions that, except for historical information, statements in
this annual report and elsewhere may constitute forward-looking statements.
These include statements as to expectations, beliefs and future financial
performance, such as statements regarding business prospects in the key
industries in which Schlumberger operates or plans to operate and growth
opportunities for Schlumberger in those industries. These statements involve a
number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking
statements. Such factors include: continuing customer commitment to certain key
oilfield projects; changes in E&P spending by major oil companies; the extent
and timing of utilities' investment in integrated solutions to utility
management; noncancellation of key long-term services and solutions contracts;
growth in demand for smart cards in e-commerce and Network and Internet-enabled
solutions; economic, competitive and technological factors affecting markets,
services, and prices in newly acquired businesses and Schlumberger's ability to
integrate these businesses and to realize synergies from these acquisitions;
general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; and
changes in business strategy or development plans relating to targeted
Schlumberger growth opportunities.

Subsequent Event - Business Acquisition
- ---------------------------------------

On February 12, 2001, Schlumberger announced that it had reached agreement with
the board of directors of Sema plc on the terms of a recommended cash offer for
the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Sema plc. The offer will be
made on the basis of (pound)5.60 (approximately $8.09) per share which
represents a purchase price of about $5.2 billion plus expenses. Schlumberger
expects to complete the transaction in the second quarter. The purchase price
will be paid from existing available cash, investments and new borrowings. The
transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and Sema plc
shareholders acceptance.

Sema plc is an IT and technical services company with about 22,000 employees.
Their business focuses on three activities - systems integration and consulting,
software products for telecommunications, energy, transport and financial
sectors, and outsourcing. Revenue in 2000 is estimated to be approximately $2.2
billion.

On March 5, 2001, Schlumberger purchased 122,869,697 shares (about 20%) of Sema
plc for approximately $1 billion.



Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Schlumberger does not believe it has a material exposure to financial market
risk. Schlumberger manages the exposure to interest rate changes by using a mix
of debt maturities and variable- and fixed-rate debt together with interest rate
swaps, where appropriate, to fix or lower borrowing costs. With regard to
foreign currency fluctuations, Schlumberger enters into various contracts, which
change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to protect the value of
external and intercompany transactions in foreign currencies. Schlumberger does
not enter into foreign currency or interest rate transactions for speculative
purposes.




Item 8     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
- ------     -------------------------------------------

     SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED (SCHLUMBERGER N.V., INCORPORATED IN THE
                NETHERLANDS ANTILLES) AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME




/1/ Reclassified, in part, for comparative purposes.

See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



                SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED (SCHLUMBERGER N.V., INCORPORATED IN THE
                      NETHERLANDS ANTILLES) AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                                CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



                                                                     (Stated in
                                                                     thousands)
December 31,                                            2000          1999/1/
                                                    -----------     ----------
ASSETS
- ------
Current Assets
   Cash and shortterm investments                  $  3,040,150   $  4,389,837
   Receivables less allowance for doubtful
        accounts (2000 $106,503;  1999 $89,030)       2,768,848      2,429,842
   Inventories                                        1,111,585        956,980
   Deferred taxes on income                             259,184        226,238
   Other current assets                                 313,444        258,532
                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                      7,493,211      8,261,429

Longterm Investments, held to maturity                1,547,132        726,496
Investments in Affiliated Companies                     654,516        535,434
Fixed Assets less accumulated depreciation            4,394,514      3,560,740
Multiclient Seismic Data                                975,775        311,520
Excess of Investment Over Net Assets
   of Companies Purchased less amortization           1,575,710      1,333,681
Deferred Taxes on Income                                271,059        242,616
Other Assets                                            260,814        109,276
                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                   $ 17,172,731   $ 15,081,192
                                                   ============   ============

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
- ------------------------------------
Current Liabilities
   Accounts payable and accrued liabilities        $  2,910,725   $  2,282,884
   Estimated liability for taxes on income              379,916        383,159
   Bank loans                                           556,020        444,221
   Dividend payable                                     108,043        106,653
   Longterm debt due within one year                     36,201        257,571
                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                      3,990,905      3,474,488

Longterm Debt                                         3,573,047      3,183,174
Postretirement Benefits                                 476,380        451,466
Minority Interest                                       605,313         32,428
Other Liabilities                                       231,870        218,608
                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                      8,877,515      7,360,164
                                                   ------------   ------------
Stockholders' Equity
   Common Stock                                       1,963,905      1,820,186
   Income retained for use in the business            8,223,476      7,916,612
   Treasury stock at cost                            (1,752,961)    (1,878,612)
   Translation adjustment                              (139,204)      (137,158)
                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                      8,295,216      7,721,028
                                                   ------------   ------------

                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                   $ 17,172,731   $ 15,081,192
                                                   ============   ============

/1/ Reclassified, in part, for comparative purposes.


See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



         SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED (SCHLUMBERGER N.V., INCORPORATED IN THE
                NETHERLANDS ANTILLES) AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS




/1/ Reclassified, in part, for comparative purposes.
/2/ Includes Multiclient seismic data costs.
See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



          SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED (SCHLUMBERGER N.V., INCORPORATED IN THE
                 NETHERLANDS ANTILLES) AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES


                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY




See the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Summary of Accounting Policies
- ------------------------------
The Consolidated Financial Statements of Schlumberger Limited and its
subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
On December 31, 1999, Schlumberger completed the spin-off of its offshore
contract drilling business, Sedco Forex, to its stockholders and the subsequent
merger of Sedco Forex and Transocean Offshore Inc., which changed its name to
Transocean Sedco Forex Inc. following the merger. The results for the Sedco
Forex operations spun off by Schlumberger are reported as Discontinued
Operations in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of majority-owned
subsidiaries. Significant 20% - 50% owned companies are carried on the equity
method and classified in Investments in Affiliated Companies. The pro rata share
of Schlumberger after-tax earnings is included in Interest and other income.

USE OF ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. While actual
results could differ from these estimates, management believes that the
estimates are reasonable.

REVENUE RECOGNITION
Generally, revenue is recognized after services are rendered or products are
shipped. The impact of applying SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue
Recognition", was not material to Schlumberger.

TRANSLATION OF NON-US CURRENCIES
Oilfield Services' functional currency is primarily the US dollar. Resource
Management Services' and Test & Transactions' functional currencies are
primarily local currencies. All assets and liabilities recorded in functional
currencies other than US dollars are translated at current exchange rates. The
resulting adjustments are charged or credited directly to the Stockholders'
Equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Revenue and expenses are
translated at the weighted-average exchange rates for the period. All realized
and unrealized transaction gains and losses are included in income in the period
in which they occur. Schlumberger policy is to hedge against unrealized gains
and losses on a monthly basis. Included in the 2000 results were transaction
losses of $4 million, compared with losses of $12 million and $6 million in 1999
and 1998, respectively.

Currency exchange contracts are entered into as a hedge against the effect of
future settlement of assets and liabilities denominated in other than the
functional currency of the individual businesses. Gains or losses on the
contracts are recognized when the currency



exchange rates fluctuate, and the resulting charge or credit partially offsets
the unrealized currency gains or losses on those assets and liabilities. On
December 31, 2000, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of
$386 million in various foreign currencies. These contracts mature on various
dates in 2001.

INVESTMENTS
Both short-term and long-term investments held to maturity are stated at cost
plus accrued interest, which approximates market, and comprise primarily
eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit and commercial paper,
euronotes and eurobonds, substantially all denominated in US dollars.
Substantially all the investments designated as held to maturity that were
purchased and matured during the year had original maturities of less than three
months. Short-term investments that are designated as trading are stated at
market. The unrealized gains/losses on such securities on December 31, 2000 were
not significant.

For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Schlumberger does not
consider short-term investments to be cash equivalents as they generally have
original maturities in excess of three months. Short-term investments on
December 31, 2000 and 1999, were $2.88 billion and $4.26 billion, respectively.

INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated principally at average cost or at market, if lower.
Inventory consists of materials, supplies and finished goods.

EXCESS OF INVESTMENT OVER NET ASSETS OF COMPANIES PURCHASED
Cost in excess of net assets of purchased companies (goodwill) is amortized on a
straight-line basis over 5 to 40 years. Accumulated amortization was $563
million and $516 million on December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Of the
goodwill on December 31, 2000, 37% is being amortized over 40 years, 10% is
being amortized over 30 years, 14% is being amortized over 25 years and 39% is
being amortized over periods of up to 25 years.

FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation, which is provided
for by charges to income over the estimated useful lives of the assets using the
straight-line method. Fixed assets include the manufacturing cost (average cost)
of oilfield technical equipment manufactured by subsidiaries of Schlumberger.
Expenditures for renewals, replacements and improvements are capitalized.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses as incurred. Upon sale
or other disposition, the applicable amounts of asset cost and accumulated
depreciation are removed from the accounts and the net amount, less proceeds
from disposal, is charged or credited to income.

MULTICLIENT SEISMIC DATA
Schlumberger capitalizes the cost of obtaining multiclient surveys. Such costs
are charged to Cost of goods sold and services based on a percentage of
estimated total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of
such data. The carrying value of individual surveys is periodically reviewed and
adjustments to the value are made based upon the revised estimated revenues for
the surveys.



CAPITALIZED INTEREST
Schlumberger capitalizes interest expense during the new construction or upgrade
of qualifying assets. No interest expense was capitalized in 2000. Interest
expense capitalized in 1999 and 1998 was $5 million and $7 million,
respectively.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS
Schlumberger reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets, including
goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
historical cost-carrying value of an asset may no longer be appropriate.
Schlumberger assesses recoverability of the carrying value of the asset by
estimating the future net cash flows expected to result from the asset,
including eventual disposition. If the future net cash flows are less than the
carrying value of the asset, an impairment loss is recorded equal to the
difference between the asset's carrying value and fair value.

TAXES ON INCOME
Schlumberger and its subsidiaries compute taxes on income in accordance with the
tax rules and regulations of the many taxing authorities where the income is
earned. The income tax rates imposed by these taxing authorities vary
substantially. Taxable income may differ from pretax income for financial
accounting purposes. To the extent that differences are due to revenue or
expense items reported in one period for tax purposes and in another period for
financial accounting purposes, an appropriate provision for deferred income
taxes is made.

Approximately $4 billion of consolidated income retained for use in the business
on December 31, 2000 represented undistributed earnings of consolidated
subsidiaries and the pro rata Schlumberger share of 20%-50% owned companies. No
provision is made for deferred income taxes on those earnings considered to be
indefinitely reinvested or earnings that would not be taxed when remitted.



EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the average
number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share
is calculated by dividing net income by the average number of common shares
outstanding assuming dilution, the calculation of which assumes that all stock
options and warrants which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of
the period and the proceeds used, by Schlumberger, to purchase shares at the
average market price for the period. The following is a reconciliation from
basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations for each of the last three years:







RESEARCH & ENGINEERING
All research and engineering expenditures are expensed as incurred, including
costs relating to patents or rights that may result from such expenditures.

CHARGES--CONTINUING OPERATIONS
Schlumberger recorded the following charges in continuing operations:

In December 2000, a pretax charge of $84 million offset by a pretax gain of $82
million (net - $3 million after tax and minority interest, $0.00 per share -
diluted), consisting of the following:

 .  A charge of $29 million ($25 million after tax) related primarily to the
   write down of certain inventory and severance costs in the Semiconductor
   Solutions business due to weak market conditions.



 .    A charge of $55 million ($39 million after tax and minority interest)
     related to the creation of the WesternGeco seismic joint venture, including
     asset impairments and severance costs for Schlumberger's existing
     Geco-Prakla business.

 .    A credit of $82 million ($61 million after tax) resulting from the gain on
     the sale of two Gas Services businesses in Europe. Revenue and operating
     net results for these divested activities were $110 million and a $740,000
     loss, respectively, in 2000 (10 months) and $163 million and $2.7 million
     profit, respectively in 1999.

The pretax gain on the sale of the Gas Services businesses is included in the
Interest & other income. The pretax Semiconductor Solutions and WesternGeco
charges are included in Cost of goods sold and services. A $9 million credit is
included in Minority Interest relating to the WesternGeco charges.

In December 1999, a pretax charge of $77 million ($71 million after tax, $0.13
per share - diluted), classified in Cost of goods sold and services, consisting
primarily of the following:

 .    A charge of $31 million ($26 million after tax) including $23 million of
     asset impairments and $8 million of severance costs related to reductions
     in the marine seismic fleet due to depressed market conditions.

 .    A charge of $38 million ($37 million after tax) including $33 million of
     asset impairments and $5 million of severance costs related to the
     restructuring of its land drilling activity following the spin-off of its
     offshore drilling business to stockholders.

In March 1999, a pretax charge of $147 million partially offset by a pretax gain
of $103 million (net - $58 million after tax, $0.10 per share - diluted),
consisting of the following:

 .    A charge of $118 million ($118 million after tax) related to the downsizing
     of its global Oilfield Services activities, including $108 million of
     severance costs and $10 million for asset impairments.

 .    A charge of $29 million ($20 million after tax) related to Resource
     Management Services and Test & Transactions, consisting principally of $16
     million of severance costs at several Resource Management Services
     facilities resulting from a downturn in business and $5 million of asset
     write-downs.

 .    A credit of $103 million ($80 million after tax) from the gain on the sale
     of financial instruments received in connection with the 1998 sale of the
     Retail Petroleum Systems business.

The pretax gain on the sale of financial instruments is included in Interest &
other income. The pretax charge of $147 million is classified in Cost of goods
sold and services.

In September 1998, a pretax charge of $432 million ($368 million after tax,
$0.65 per share - diluted), classified in Cost of goods sold and services,
consisting primarily of the following:

 .    A charge of $314 million ($257 million after tax) related to Oilfield
     Services, including severance costs of $69 million; facility closure costs
     of $61 million; operating assets write-offs of $137 million; and $43
     million of customer receivable reserves where



     collection was considered doubtful due to the customers' financial
     condition and/or country risk. This charge was due to the reduction in
     business activity.
 .    A charge of $48 million ($63 million after tax) for merger-related costs in
     connection with the acquisition of Camco.
 .    A charge of $61 million ($43 million after tax) related to Resource
     Management Services and Test & Transactions, consisting primarily of $21
     million of severance and $40 million of environmental costs resulting from
     a reassessment of ongoing future monitoring and maintenance requirements at
     locations no longer in operation.

The December 2000 charge included severance costs of $9 million (380 people)
none of which had been paid at December 31, 2000. The December 1999 charge
included severance costs of $13 million (300 people) which have been paid.
Severance costs included in the September 1998 charge (6200 people; $90 million)
and the March 1999 charge (4700 people; $124 million) have been paid and the
actual number of employees terminated was slightly higher than originally
planned; however, this had no material impact on the actual severance costs paid
as compared with the amount originally accrued.

The $61 million of facility closure costs accrued in 1998 were substantially
paid in accordance with the original plan.

Discontinued Operations
- -----------------------

On December 31, 1999, Schlumberger completed the spin-off of its offshore
contract drilling business, Sedco Forex, to its stockholders and the subsequent
merger of Sedco Forex and Transocean Offshore Inc., which changed its name to
Transocean Sedco Forex Inc. following the merger. The spin-off was approved by
stockholders on December 10, 1999.

Upon completion of the merger, Schlumberger stockholders held approximately 52%
of the ordinary shares of Transocean Sedco Forex Inc., and Transocean Offshore
Inc. shareholders held the remaining 48%. Schlumberger retained no ownership in
the combined company.

In the spin-off, Schlumberger stockholders received one share of Sedco Forex for
each share of Schlumberger owned on the record date of December 20, 1999. In the
merger, each Sedco Forex share was exchanged for 0.1936 ordinary share of
Transocean Sedco Forex Inc. Stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional
shares.

Results for the Sedco Forex operations spun off by Schlumberger for this
transaction are reported as discontinued operations in the Consolidated
Statement of Income.

Discontinued Operations on the Consolidated Statement of Income includes the
operating results of the spun-off Sedco Forex business and the following
charges:

- -    In December 1999, an after-tax charge of $50 million ($0.09 per share
     diluted) for costs directly associated with the spin-off.
- -    In March 1999, an after-tax charge of $33 million ($0.06 per share -
     diluted) for severance costs ($13 million) and legal claims.
- -    In September 1998, an after-tax charge of $12 million ($0.02 per share -
     diluted) for severance costs.



As a result of the spin-off, Schlumberger Income Retained for Use in the
Business was reduced by $918 million representing the spun-off net assets of
Sedco Forex ($1.23 billion) less payments received in settlement of intercompany
balances between Schlumberger and Sedco Forex ($313 million). The net assets
spun off included $1.3 billion of fixed assets.

Pursuant to Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 30, Reporting the
Results of Operations-Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a
Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and
Transactions, the revenue and expenses of Sedco Forex have been excluded from
the respective captions in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The net
operating results of Sedco Forex have been reported, net of applicable income
taxes, as Discontinued Operations.

Summarized 1999 and 1998 financial information for the discontinued operations,
is as follows:

                                    (Stated in millions)
                                  1999           1998
                                 -------        --------

Operating Revenue                 $ 648        $ 1,091

Income before taxes               $  29          $ 428

Income after taxes                $  37          $ 396


Acquisitions
- ------------

During 2000, subsidiaries of Schlumberger acquired the following:

 .    In January, Telweb Inc., an Internet access company based in Quebec,
     Canada. The purchase price was $28 million and the cost in excess of net
     assets acquired was $28 million which is being amortized over 10 years.
 .    In April, Operational Services, Inc., which provides a systematic approach
     to production management though efficient systems and processes. The
     purchase price was $13 million and the cost in excess of net assets
     acquired was $13 million which is being amortized over 15 years.
 .    In May, substantially all of the assets of CellNet Data Systems, Inc., a
     provider of telemetry services for the development and deployment of
     large-scale automatic metering reading systems. The acquisition was handled
     through Chapter 11 procedure and was approved by the bankruptcy court. The
     purchase price was $209 million and the cost in excess of net assets
     acquired was zero.
 .    In October, Data Marine Systems Limited, a global provider of
     telecommunications services for transmitting data from remote locations.
     The purchase price was $83 million and the cost in excess of net assets
     acquired was $75 million which is being amortized over 15 years.
 .    In November, a 70% interest in the Convergent Group, a provider of business
     consulting, software engineering, system integration and project management
     services. The purchase price was $263 million and the cost in excess of net
     assets acquired was $214 million which is being amortized over 15 years.



 .    In November, a 70% interest in WesternGeco, a new venture which combined
     the Schlumberger surface seismic business, Geco-Prakla, and the Western
     Geophysical seismic unit of Baker Hughes Inc. The purchase price was $720
     million which comprised $500 million in cash and a 30% interest, valued at
     $220 million, in Geco-Prakla. The cost in excess of net assets acquired was
     zero.

These acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting
and costs in excess of net assets acquired are being amortized on a
straight-line basis.

Unaudited APB 16 proforma results pertaining to the above acquisitions are not
presented as the impact was not significant.

During 1999, subsidiaries of Schlumberger acquired Merak, a market leader in
petroleum software solutions; Secure Oil Tools, a leader in multilateral
completions; and substantially all of the assets of Panther Software
Corporation, a provider of hardware and software products and services for
managing large volumes of seismic data. These acquisitions were accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting. Costs in excess of net assets acquired
were $106 million which are being amortized on a straight-line basis over 7 to
20 years.

In the third quarter of 1999, the Omnes joint venture, created in 1995 between
Schlumberger and Cable & Wireless, was restructured into two separate business
units. Under the agreement, equal ownership and access to products, technology
and intellectual property was given to both parent companies. Schlumberger
retained ownership of the Omnes name. Omnes is now a fully operational company
within Test & Transactions.

On August 31, 1998, the merger of Schlumberger Technology Corporation, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Schlumberger, and Camco International Inc. was completed.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, approximately 38.2 million shares of
Camco common stock were exchanged for 45.1 million shares of Schlumberger common
stock at the exchange rate of 1.18 shares of Schlumberger stock for each share
of Camco. Based on the Schlumberger average price of $47.875 on August 28, the
transaction was valued at $2.2 billion. The business combination was accounted
for using the pooling-of-interests method of accounting.

Investments in Affiliated Companies
- -----------------------------------

In the third quarter of 1999, Schlumberger and Smith International Inc. entered
into an agreement whereby their drilling fluids operations were combined to form
a joint venture. Under the terms of the agreement, Schlumberger contributed its
non-US drilling fluids business and a total of $325 million to the joint
venture. Schlumberger owns a 40% interest in the joint venture and records
income using the equity method of accounting. Schlumberger's investment on
December 31, 2000 and 1999 was $461 million and $414 million, respectively.
Schlumberger's equity income from this joint venture in 2000 was $33 million and
was not material in 1999.



Investments
- -----------

The Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects the Schlumberger investment portfolio
separated between current and long term, based on maturity. Except for $139
million of investments which are considered trading on December 31, 2000 ($130
million in 1999), under normal circumstances it is the intent of Schlumberger to
hold the investments until maturity.

Long-term investments mature as follows: $564 million in 2002, $228 million in
2003 and $755 million thereafter.

On December 31, 2000, there were no interest rate swap arrangements outstanding
related to investments. Interest rate swap arrangements had no material effect
on consolidated interest income.

Securitization
- --------------

In September 2000, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger entered into an
agreement to sell, on an ongoing basis, up to $220 million of an undivided
interest in its accounts receivable. The amount of receivables sold under this
agreement totaled $183 million at December 31, 2000. Costs of the program, which
primarily consist of the purchasers' financing and administrative costs, were
not significant.

Schlumberger continues to service the receivables and maintains an allowance for
doubtful accounts based upon the expected collectibility of all Schlumberger
accounts receivable, including the portion of receivables sold. Unless extended
by amendment, the agreement expires in September 2001.

Fixed Assets
- ------------

A summary of fixed assets follows:

                                                     (Stated in millions)

December 31,                                2000                  1999
                                         ------------         -------------

Land                                           $  80                 $  68
Building & Improvements                        1,081                 1,086
Machinery & Equipment                          9,661                 8,485
                                         ------------         -------------
Total cost                                    10,822                 9,639
Less accumulated depreciation                  6,427                 6,078
                                         ------------         -------------
                                             $ 4,395               $ 3,561
                                         ============         =============

The estimated useful lives of Buildings & Improvements are primarily 30 to 40
years. For Machinery & Equipment, 11% is being depreciated over 16 to 25 years,
14% over 10 to 15 years and 75% over 2 to 9 years.



Long-term Debt
- --------------

A summary of long-term debt by currency follows:

                                            (Stated in millions)
December 31,                           2000                1999
                                  -------------       -------------

US dollar                              $ 2,969             $ 2,369
Euro                                       214                 411
UK pound                                   170                  20
Japanese yen                               132                 146
Canadian dollar                             73                 105
Other                                       15                 132
                                  -------------       -------------
                                       $ 3,573             $ 3,183
                                  =============       =============


The majority of the long-term debt is at variable interest rates; the
weighted-average interest rate of the debt outstanding on December 31, 2000 was
5.7%. Such rates are reset every six months or sooner. The carrying value of
long-term debt on December 31, 2000 approximates the aggregate fair market
value.

Long-term debt on December 31, 2000, is due as follows: $118 million in 2002,
$2,469 million in 2003, $327 million in 2004, $234 million in 2005 and $425
million thereafter.

On December 31, 2000, interest rate swap arrangements outstanding were: pay
fixed/receive floating on US dollar debt of $800 million; pay fixed/receive
floating on Japanese yen debt of $97 million. These arrangements mature at
various dates to December 2009. Interest rate swap arrangements had no material
effect on consolidated interest expense in 2000 and 1999, respectively. The
likelihood of nonperformance by the other parties to the arrangements is
considered to be remote.

Lines of Credit
- ---------------

On December 31, 2000, the principal US subsidiary of Schlumberger had available
a Revolving Credit Agreement with a syndicate of banks. The Agreement provided
that the subsidiary may borrow up to $1 billion until August 2003 at money
market-based rates (6.6% on December 31, 2000 and 6.1% on December 31, 1999) of
which $630 million was outstanding on December 31, 2000. In addition, on
December 31, 2000 and 1999, Schlumberger and its subsidiaries also had available
unused lines of credit of approximately $825 million and $793 million,
respectively. Commitment and facility fees are not material.

Capital Stock
- -------------

Schlumberger is authorized to issue 1,000,000,000 shares of common stock, par
value $0.01 per share, of which 572,724,694 and 565,931,130 shares were
outstanding on December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Schlumberger is also
authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of cumulative preferred stock, par value
$0.01 per share, which may be issued in series with terms and conditions
determined by the Board of Directors. No shares of preferred stock have been
issued. Holders of common stock and preferred stock are entitled to one vote for
each share of stock held.

In January 1993, Schlumberger acquired the remaining 50% interest in the Dowell
Schlumberger group of companies. The purchase price included a warrant, expiring
in 7.5 years and valued at $100 million, to purchase 15,153,018 shares of
Schlumberger common stock at an exercise price of $29.672 per share. The warrant
was exercised by Dow Chemical on December 16, 1999.



Stock Compensation Plans
- ------------------------

As of December 31, 2000, Schlumberger had two types of stock-based compensation
plans, which are described below. Schlumberger applies APB Opinion 25 and
related Interpretations in accounting for its plans. Accordingly, no
compensation cost has been recognized for its stock option plans and its stock
purchase plan. Had compensation cost for the stock-based Schlumberger plans been
determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards under those
plans, consistent with the method of SFAS 123, Schlumberger net income and
earnings per share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below:

                                (Stated in millions except per share amounts)
                                   2000             1999             1998
                                 ---------        ---------       ----------
Net income
      As reported                 $   735          $   367         $  1,014
      Pro forma                   $   633          $   268         $    893

Basic earnings per share
      As reported                 $  1.29          $  0.67         $   1.86
      Pro forma                   $  1.11          $  0.49         $   1.64

Diluted earnings per share
      As reported                 $  1.27          $  0.65         $   1.81
      Pro forma                   $  1.09          $  0.48         $   1.59


STOCK OPTION PLANS
During 2000, 1999, 1998 and in prior years, officers and key employees were
granted stock options under Schlumberger stock option plans. For all of the
stock options granted, the exercise price of each option equals the market price
of Schlumberger stock on the date of grant; an option's maximum term is ten
years, and options generally vest in 20% increments over five years.

As required by SFAS 123, the fair value of each grant is estimated on the date
of grant using the multiple option Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following weighted-average assumptions used for 2000, 1999 and 1998: Dividend of
$0.75; expected volatility of 27%-33% for 2000 grants, 25%-29% for 1999 grants
and 21%-25% for 1998 grants; risk-free interest rates for the 2000 grants of
5.75%-6.84% for officers and 5.69%-6.72% for the 2000 grants to all other
employees; risk-free interest rates for the 1999 grant of 4.92%-5.29% for
officers and 4.80%-6.25% for the 1999 grants to all other employees; risk-free
interest rates for 1998 grants of 5.59%-5.68% for officers and 4.35%-5.62% for
all other employees; and expected option lives of 7.16 years for officers and
5.49 years for other employees for 2000 grants, 7.14 years for officers and 5.28
years for other employees for 1999 grants and 6.98 years for officers and 5.02
years for other employees for 1998.



A summary of the status of the Schlumberger stock option plans as of December
31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, and changes during the years ended on those dates is
presented below:



/1/ Shares and exercise price were restated to reflect adjustments made as a
    result of the spin-off of Sedco Forex, in accordance with EITF Issue 90-9,
    Changes to Fixed Employee Stock Option Plans as Result of Equity
    Restructuring.

The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and
exercisable options by three ranges of exercise prices on December 31, 2000:




EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
Under the Schlumberger Discounted Stock Purchase Plan, Schlumberger is
authorized to issue up to 22,012,245 shares of common stock to its employees.
Under the terms of the Plan, employees can choose each year to have up to 10% of
their annual earnings withheld to purchase Schlumberger common stock. The
purchase price of the stock is 85% of the lower of its beginning or end of the
Plan year market price. Under the Plan, Schlumberger sold 1,431,309, 1,324,848
and 1,266,840 shares to employees in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Compensation cost has been computed for the fair value of the employees'



purchase rights, which was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the
following assumptions for 2000, 1999 and 1998: Dividend of $0.75; expected life
of one year; expected volatility of 38% for 2000, 40% for 1999 and 34% for 1998;
and risk-free interest rates of 5.71% for 2000, 5.33% for 1999 and 4.44% for
1998. The weighted-average fair value of those purchase rights granted in 2000,
1999 and 1998, was $23.141, $19.829 and $19.817, respectively.

Income Tax Expense
- ------------------

Schlumberger and its subsidiaries operate in more than 100 taxing jurisdictions
where statutory tax rates generally vary from 0% to 50%.

Pretax book income from continuing operations subject to US and non-US income
taxes for each of the three years ended December 31, was as follows:

                                                 (Stated in millions)
                                  2000            1999           1998
                               ---------       ---------      ---------

United States                       $ 51         $  (172)          $ 24
Outside United States                910             653            879

                               ---------       ---------      ---------
Pretax income                       $961            $481           $903
                               =========       =========      =========


Schlumberger had net deductible temporary differences of $1.0 billion on
December 31, 2000, $1.1 billion on December 31, 1999 and $1.2 billion on
December 31, 1998. Temporary differences at December 31, 2000 pertain to
postretirement medical benefits ($0.5 billion), employee benefits ($0.2
billion), multiclient seismic data ($0.2 billion), and fixed assets, inventory
and other ($0.1 billion).

The components of consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations
were as follows:

                                                     (Stated in millions)
                                       2000          1999          1998
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
Current:
   United States - Federal              $   21        $  (74)       $  124
   United States - State                     4            (7)           15
   Outside United States                   194           206           225
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
                                        $  219        $  125        $  364
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
Deferred:
   United States - Federal              $   (3)       $   14        $  (68)
   United States - State                    (2)            1            (7)
   Outside United States
                                            14             1           (13)
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
                                        $    9        $   16        $  (88)
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------

Consolidated taxes on income              $228        $  141        $  276
                                    ==========    ==========    ==========

Effective tax rate                          24            30%           31%
                                    ==========     =========     =========




For the three years, the variations from the US statutory federal tax rate (35%)
and Schlumberger effective tax rates were due to several factors, including a
substantial proportion of operations in countries where taxation on income is
lower than in the US partially offset by the effect of permanent book/tax
differences in the US, such as goodwill amortization.

Leases and Lease Commitments
- ----------------------------

Total rental expense was $287 million in 2000, $303 million in 1999 and $304
million in 1998. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases
for years ending December 31 are: $175 million in 2001; $147 million in 2002;
$113 million in 2003; $88 million in 2004; and $79 million in 2005. For the
ensuing three five-year periods, these commitments decrease from $624 million to
$3 million. The minimum rentals over the remaining terms of the leases aggregate
to $34 million.

Contingencies
- -------------

The Consolidated Balance Sheet includes accruals for the estimated future costs
associated with certain environmental remediation activities related to the past
use or disposal of hazardous materials. Substantially all such costs relate to
divested operations and to facilities or locations that are no longer in
operation. Due to a number of uncertainties, including uncertainty of timing,
the scope of remediation, future technology, regulatory changes and other
factors, it is possible that the ultimate remediation costs may exceed the
amounts estimated. However, in the opinion of management, such additional costs
are not expected to be material relative to consolidated liquidity, financial
position or future results of operations.

In addition, Schlumberger and its subsidiaries are party to various other legal
proceedings. Although the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is not
presently determinable, in the opinion of Schlumberger any liability that might
ensue would not be material in relation to the consolidated liquidity, financial
position or future results of operations.



Segment Information
- -------------------

Schlumberger operates three reportable segments: Oilfield Services (OFS),
Resource Management Services (RMS) and Test & Transactions (T&T).

The Schlumberger OFS segment falls into four clearly defined economic and
geographical areas and is evaluated on the following basis: First, North America
(NAM) is a major self-contained market. Second, Latin America (LAM) comprises
regional markets that share a common dependence on the United States. Third,
Europe (ECA) is another major self-contained market that includes the CIS and
West Africa, whose economy is increasingly linked to that of Europe. Fourth,
Other Eastern includes the remainder of the Eastern Hemisphere, which consists
of many countries at different stages of economic development that share a
common dependence on the oil and gas industry.

The OFS segment provides virtually all exploration and production services
required during the life of an oil and gas reservoir. Schlumberger believes that
all the products/services are interrelated and expects similar performance from
each. The RMS segment is essentially a global provider of measurement solutions,
products and systems for electricity, gas and water utilities. The T&T segment
supplies technology products, services and system solutions to the
semiconductor, banking, telecommunications, transportation and health care
industries. The segment consists of Cards, Semiconductor, Network Solutions and
e-Transactions. Services and products are described in more detail on pages 1
and 2 this 10-K report.

Financial information for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, by
segment, is as follows:





               (1) 2000 income tax expense excludes a charge of $10 million
                   related to the Charges.

               (2) Includes multiclient seismic data costs.

               (3) Includes multiclient seismic data capitalized.





               (1) 1999 income tax expense excludes a charge of $8 million
                   related to the Charges.

               (2) Includes multiclient seismic data costs.

               (3) Includes multiclient seismic data capitalized.





               (1) 1998 income tax expense excludes a credit of $63 million
                   related to the Charges.
               (2) Includes multiclient seismic data cost.
               (3) Includes multiclient seismic data capitalized.

Corporate assets largely comprise short-term and long-term investments.

During the three years ended December 31, 2000, no single customer exceeded 10%
of consolidated revenue.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
Summary of Accounting Policies.

Oilfield Services' net income eliminations include: certain headquarters
administrative costs which are not allocated geographically, goodwill
amortization, manufacturing and certain other operations, and costs maintained
at the Oilfield Services level.

Nonoperating expenses, such as certain intersegment charges and interest expense
(except as shown above), are not included in segment operating income.

Schlumberger did not have revenue from third-party customers in its country of
domicile during the last three years. In each of the three years, only revenue
in the US exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Revenue in the US in 2000, 1999
and 1998 was $3.5 billion, $2.5 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively.




Pension and Other Benefit Plans
- -------------------------------

US PENSION PLANS
Schlumberger and its US subsidiary sponsor several defined benefit pension plans
that cover substantially all employees. The benefits are based on years of
service and compensation on a career-average pay basis. These plans are fully
funded with a trustee in respect to past and current service. Charges to expense
are based upon costs computed by independent actuaries. The funding policy is to
annually contribute amounts that are allowable for federal income tax purposes.
These contributions are intended to provide for benefits earned to date and
those expected to be earned in the future.

The assumed discount rate, compensation increases and return on plan assets used
to determine pension expense in 2000 were 7.75%, 4.5% and 9%, respectively. In
1999, the assumptions were 7%, 4.5% and 9%, respectively. In 1998, the
assumptions were 7.5%, 4.5% and 9%, respectively.

Net pension cost in the US for 2000, 1999 and 1998, included the following
components:

                                                            (Stated in millions)
                                       2000           1999              1998
                                    ----------     ----------        ----------

Service cost-benefits earned
   during the period                 $  36          $  45             $  39
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation                   76             73                68
Expected return on plan assets
   (actual return: 2000 - $(2);
   1999 - $211; 1998 - $167)           (97)           (86)              (77)
Amortization of transition
   assets                               (1)            (2)               (2)
Amortization of prior service
   cost/other

                                         5              6                 6
Amortization of unrecognized
   net gain

                                       (11)             -                (3)

                                  --------       --------           -------
   Net pension cost                  $   8          $  36             $  31
                                  ========       ========           =======


Effective January 1, 2000, Schlumberger and its subsidiaries amended their
pension plans to improve retirement benefits for active employees.




The change in the projected benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of
the plans on December 31, 2000 and 1999, was as follows:

                                                            (Stated in millions)
                                               2000                     1999
                                           ------------             ------------
Projected benefit obligation at
   beginning of the year                      $1,052                   $1,060
Service cost                                      36                       45
Interest cost                                     76                       73
Actuarial losses (gains)                          17                      (70)
Benefits paid                                    (62)                     (56)
Amendments                                        (6)                       -
Projected benefit obligation at
                                           ---------                ---------
   end of the year                            $1,113                   $1,052
                                           =========                =========

Plan assets at market value at
   beginning of the year                      $1,276                   $1,119
Actual return on plan assets                      (2)                     211
Employer contribution                              -                        2
Benefits paid                                    (62)                     (56)
Plan assets at market value at
                                           ---------                ---------
   end of the year                            $1,212                   $1,276
                                           =========                =========

Excess of assets over projected
   benefit obligation                         $   99                   $  224
Unrecognized net gain

                                                (266)                    (395)
Unrecognized prior service cost
                                                  30                       44
Unrecognized net asset at
   transition date
                                                  (1)                      (2)
                                           ---------                ---------
Pension liability                             $ (138)                  $ (129)
                                           =========                =========

The assumed discount rate, the rate of compensation increases and the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the projected benefit
obligations were 7.5%, 4.5% and 9%, respectively, in 2000, and 7.75%, 4.5% and
9% respectively, in 1999. Plan assets on December 31, 2000, consisted of common
stocks ($708 million), cash or cash equivalents ($114 million), fixed income
investments ($279 million) and other investments ($95 million). Less than 1% of
the plan assets on December 31, 2000, were represented by Schlumberger common
stock.

NON-US PENSION PLANS
Outside the US, subsidiaries of Schlumberger sponsor several defined benefit and
defined contribution plans that cover substantially all employees who are not
covered by statutory plans. For defined benefit plans, charges to expense are
based upon costs computed by independent actuaries. These plans are
substantially fully funded with trustees in respect to past and current service.
For all defined benefit plans, pension expense was $23 million, $19 million and
$17 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Based on plan assets and the
projected benefit obligation, the only significant defined benefit plan is in
the UK.

The assumed discount rate, compensation increases and return on plan assets used
to determine pension expense in 2000 were 6%, 4% and 9%, respectively. In 1999,
the assumptions were 7%, 4% and 9%, respectively. In 1998, the assumptions were
7.5%, 5% and 9%, respectively.




Net pension cost in the UK plan for 2000, 1999 and 1998 (translated into US
dollars at the average exchange rate for the periods), included the following
components:


                                                            (Stated in millions)
                                    2000              1999                 1998
                                   ------            ------               ------
Service cost-benefits earned
   during the period               $  22             $  22                $  18
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation                 17                15                   18
Expected return on plan assets
   (actual return: 2000 - ($28);
   1999 - $106; 1998 - $23)          (34)              (33)                 (30)
Amortization of transition
   asset and other                    (5)               (6)                  (6)

                                  ------            ------               ------
Net pension cost                   $   -             $  (2)               $   -
                                  ======            ======               ======

The change in the projected benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of
the plan (translated into US dollars at year-end exchange rates) was as follows:

                                                          (Stated in  millions)
                                              2000                   1999
                                            -------                --------
Projected benefit obligation at
 beginning of the year                      $   290                $    229
Service cost                                     22                      22
Interest cost                                    17                      15
Actuarial losses                                 19                      44
Gain in exchange                                (26)                     (8)
Benefits paid                                   (11)                    (12)
Projected benefit obligation at
                                            -------                --------
  end of the year                           $   311                $    290
                                            =======                ========

Plan assets at market value at
 beginning of the year                      $   454                $    366
Actual return on plan assets                    (28)                    106
Loss in exchange                                (38)                    (10)
Employer contribution                             7                       4
Employee contributions                            1                       1
Benefits paid                                   (11)                    (13)
Plan assets at market value at
                                            -------                --------
 end of the year                            $   385                $    454
                                            =======                ========

Excess of assets over projected
 benefit obligation                         $    74                $    164
Unrecognized net gain                           (39)                   (135)
Unrecognized prior service cost                   1                       2
Unrecognized net asset at
 transition date                                 (2)                     (3)
                                            -------                --------
Pension asset                               $    34                $     28
                                            =======                ========





The assumed discount rate and rate of compensation increases used to determine
the projected benefit obligation were 6% and 4%, respectively, in 2000, and 6.5%
and 4%, respectively, in 1999; the expected long-term rate of return on plan
assets was 9% in 2000 and 1999. Plan assets consisted of common stocks ($319
million), cash or cash equivalents ($21 million) and fixed income investments
($45 million). None of the plan assets represented Schlumberger common stock.

For defined contribution plans, funding and cost are generally based upon a
predetermined percentage of employee compensation. Charges to expense in 2000,
1999 and 1998, were $22 million, $24 million and $25 million, respectively.

OTHER DEFERRED BENEFITS
In addition to providing pension benefits, Schlumberger and its subsidiaries
have other deferred benefit programs, primarily profit sharing. Expenses for
these programs were $114 million, $73 million and $128 million in 2000, 1999 and
1998, respectively.

HEALTH CARE BENEFITS
Schlumberger and its US subsidiary provide health care benefits for certain
active employees. The cost of providing these benefits is recognized as expense
when incurred and aggregated $60 million, $53 million and $54 million in 2000,

1999 and 1998, respectively. Outside the US, such benefits are mostly provided
through government-sponsored programs.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS
Schlumberger and its US subsidiary provide certain health care benefits to
former employees who have retired under the US pension plans.

The principal actuarial assumptions used to measure costs were a discount rate
of 7.75% in 2000, 7% in 1999 and 7.5% in 1998. The overall medical cost trend
rate assumption is 9% graded to 5% over the next six years and 5% thereafter.

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the US for 2000, 1999 and 1998,
included the following components:






The change in accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and funded status on
December 31, 2000 and 1999, was as follows:

                                                          (Stated in millions)
                                                  2000                1999
                                               ---------            ---------
Accumulated postretirement benefit
 obligation at beginning of the year           $     320             $    354
Service cost                                          10                   11
Interest cost                                         28                   23
Actuarial losses (gains)                              57                  (52)
Benefits paid                                        (17)                 (16)
                                               ---------             ---------
Accumulated postretirement benefit
 obligation at the end of the year                   398                  320
Unrecognized net gain                                 67                  124
Unrecognized prior service cost                        4                    4
Postretirement benefit liability
                                               ---------             --------
 on December 31                                $     469             $    448
                                               =========             ========

The components of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation on December
31, 2000 and 1999, were as follows:

                                               (Stated in millions)
                                        2000                1999
                                    -------------        ------------

Retirees                            $     216            $    161
Fully eligible                             47                  45
Actives                                   135                 114
                                    -------------        ------------
                                    $     398            $    320
                                    =============        ============

The assumed discount rate used to determine the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was 7.50% for 2000 and 7.75% for 1999.

If the assumed medical cost trend rate was increased by one percentage point,
health care cost in 2000 would have been $45 million, and the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation would have been $465 million on December 31,
2000.

If the assumed medical cost trend rate was decreased by one percentage point,
health care cost in 2000 would have been $32 million, and the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation would have been $360 million on December 31,
2000.



Supplementary Information
- -------------------------

Operating revenue and related cost of goods sold and services for continuing
operations comprised the following:



Cash paid for interest and income taxes for continuing operations was as
follows:



Accounts payable and accrued liabilities are summarized as follows:

                                               (Stated in millions)
Year ended December 31,                  2000                1999
                                     -------------        ------------
Payroll, vacation and
 employee benefits                   $     672            $    564
Trade                                      946                 663
Taxes, other than income                   204                 169
Other                                    1,089                 887
                                     -------------        ------------
                                     $   2,911            $  2,283
                                     =============        ============



Interest and other income includes the following:





Subsequent Event - Business Acquisition
- ---------------------------------------

On February 12, 2001, Schlumberger announced that it had reached agreement with
the board of directors of Sema plc on the terms of a recommended cash offer for
the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Sema plc. The offer will be
made on the basis of (pound)5.60 (approximately $8.09) per share which
represents a purchase price of about $5.2 billion plus expenses. Schlumberger
expects to complete the transaction in the second quarter. The purchase price
will be paid from existing available cash, investments and new borrowings. The
transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and Sema plc
shareholders acceptance.

* Mark of Schlumberger



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of Schlumberger Limited

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Schlumberger
Limited and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2000 and December 31, 1999, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
- -------------------------------
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
January 24, 2001, except as to "Subsequent Event - Business Acquisition" Note
which is as of February 16, 2001



QUARTERLY RESULTS
- -----------------
(UNAUDITED)

The following table summarizes results for each of the four quarters for the
years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999. Gross margin equals operating revenue
less cost of goods sold and services.





/1/ Includes a net after-tax and minority interest charge of $3 million ($0.00
    per share--diluted).

/2/ Includes an after-tax charge of $58 million ($0.10 per share--diluted).

/3/ Includes an after-tax charge of $71 million ($0.13 per share--diluted).

/4/ Due to rounding, the addition of earnings per share by quarter may not equal
    total earnings per share for the year.




Item 9  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
- ------  ---------------------------------------------------------------
        Financial Disclosures
        ---------------------

NONE






PART III
- --------

Item 10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
- -------  --------------------------------------------------

See Part I (on pages 5 and 6) for Item 10 information regarding Executive
Officers of the Registrant. The information with respect to the remaining
portion of Item 10 is set forth in the first section under the caption,
"Election of Directors", in the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 7, 2001
for the April 11, 2001 Annual General Meeting, and is incorporated by reference.

Item 11  Executive Compensation
- -------  ----------------------

The information set forth under "Executive Compensation" (other than that set
forth under the subcaptions "Corporate Performance Graph" and "Compensation
Committee Report on Executive Compensation") in the Company's Proxy Statement
dated March 7, 2001 is incorporated by reference.

Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
- -------  --------------------------------------------------------------

The information with respect to Item 12 is set forth in the Company's Proxy
Statement dated March 7, 2001 under the caption, "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management," and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
- -------  ----------------------------------------------

Information regarding this item may be found on page 3, the last two sentences
of footnote 2, in the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 7, 2001 for the
April 11, 2001 Annual General Meeting and is incorporated by reference.



PART IV

Item 14   Exhibits Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
- -------   --------------------------------------------------------------

The following documents are filed as part of this report:              Page(s)

         (1)      Financial Statements

                  Consolidated Statement of Income
                  for the three years ended December 31, 1999           27

                  Consolidated Balance Sheet
                  at December 31, 1999 and 1998                         28

                  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
                  for the three years ended December 31, 1999           29

                  Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
                  for the three years ended December 31, 1999           30

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements            31 to 54

                  Report of Independent Accountants                      55

                  Quarterly Results (Unaudited)                          56

Financial statements of 20% - 50% owned companies accounted for under the equity
method and unconsolidated subsidiaries have been omitted because they do not
meet the materiality tests for assets or income.

         (2)      Financial Statement Schedules not required.

         (3)      The following Exhibits are filed or incorporated by reference
                  as indicated in the Index to Exhibits.

                  Deed of Incorporation
                  as last amended on April 29, 1997                Exhibit 3

                  By-Laws
                  as last amended on October 20, 1993              Exhibit 3

                  Schlumberger 1994 Stock Option Plan*
                  as amended on January 5, 1995                    Exhibit 10(a)

                  Schlumberger 1994 Stock Option Plan*
                  Second Amendment                                 Exhibit 10(b)

                  Schlumberger 1994 Stock Option Plan*
                  Third Amendment                                  Exhibit 10(c)

                  Schlumberger Limited Supplementary Benefit Plan*

_________________

* Compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit.





No reports on Form 10-K were filed during the last quarter of the period covered
by this report.

___________________

* Compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit.



                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                             SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED

Date: MARCH 8, 2001        By:  /s/ Jack Liu
                                 --------------------------------
                                  Jack Liu

                             Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
                             and Chief Accounting Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                                  SIGNATURES





                                                  INDEX TO EXHIBITS






                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS




