
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K

                                   (Mark One)
     X   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
       -
                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For fiscal year ended  DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                            -----------------

                                       OR

          _  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

      For the Transition period from                   to
                                     ----------------      ---------------

                          Commission File Number 1-4601


                     SCHLUMBERGER N.V. (SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED)
                     ----------------------------------------
              (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



NETHERLANDS ANTILLES                                     52-0684746
- ---------------------------------                        ----------
(State or other jurisdiction of                       (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)
 
277 PARK AVENUE
NEW YORK, NEW YORK, U.S.A.                                10172-0266
 
42, RUE SAINT DOMINIQUE
PARIS, FRANCE                                               75007

LAAN VAN MEERDERVOORT 55,
THE HAGUE,
THE NETHERLANDS                                             2517 AG

- -----------------------                                  -------------
(Addresses of principal                                   (Zip Codes)
executive offices)


  Registrant's telephone number in the United States, including area code, is:
                                (212) 350-9400.



                           (Cover page 1 of 2 pages)

 
PART I
- ------

Item 1    Business
- ------    ---------

All references herein to "Registrant" and "Company" refer to Schlumberger
Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries. Registrant's business is comprised of
three industry segments - l) Oilfield Services, 2) Measurement & Systems, and 3)
Omnes.  Due to immateriality, Omnes is not a reportable segment for financial
reporting purposes.

Oilfield Services
- -----------------

Oilfield Services offers exploration and production services to the petroleum
industry throughout the world in its search for and recovery of oil and gas.
Essentially, the services are provided at the wellsite.  Oilfield Services is
comprised of Wireline & Testing, Dowell, Geco-Prakla, Sedco Forex, Anadrill,
GeoQuest, and Integrated Project Management.  Wireline & Testing provides well
evaluation, well testing and production enhancement and monitoring services on
land and offshore.  Dowell provides cementing, stimulation, coiled tubing and
drilling fluids services to enhance well productivity.  Geco-Prakla provides
acquisition, processing and interpretation of land, transition zone and marine
seismic data.  Sedco Forex owns and operates offshore and land drilling rigs.
Anadrill provides directional drilling services as well as measurements-while-
drilling and logging-while-drilling services.  GeoQuest provides oil companies
with software and computer services to maximize the value of their exploration
and production data.  Integrated Project Management offers the selection of
optimum oilfield technology, safety and quality management systems for well
construction, production and field development projects.

Registrant's Oilfield Services are marketed by its own personnel.  The customer
base, business risks, and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform
across all the product lines.  There is a sharing of production facilities and
research centers; labor force is interchangeable.  Technological innovation,
quality of service, and price are the principal methods of competition.
Competition varies geographically with respect to the different services
offered.  While there are numerous competitors, both large and small, Registrant
believes that it is an industry leader in providing contract drilling services,
seismic services, measurements-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling
services, and fully computerized wireline logging and geoscience software and
computing services.

Measurement & Systems
- ---------------------

Measurement & Systems products are essentially "measurement instruments", be
they for measuring telecommunications operations, quality defects in
semiconductors or energy/water consumption.  The predominant source of revenue
is from customers which are mainly suppliers of energy, water, communications,
transportation and semiconductors. All businesses market both high volume/low
price and low volume/high price products.  In all businesses the production
process is primarily one of assembly/test with various production sites serving
several product lines.

Measurement & Systems businesses consist of metering (Electricity & Gas
Management and Water Management), Systems & Services, Electronic Transactions
and Automatic Test Equipment.  Electricity & Gas Management manufactures
electricity and gas meters and provides automatic metering reading, revenue
collection and load management applications as well as providing gas regulation
systems, gas management services and billing systems.  Water Management
manufactures meters for measuring water, thermal energy and industrial fluids
consumption and provides water management services, automatic reading services
and billing systems.  Systems & Services provides metering communication 


 
systems and services for Water, Gas, Electricity and Heat markets worldwide
including remote reading and wireless communication systems for utility markets;
distributed measurement solutions, providing systems integration and data
services; and related services including meter reading and installation services
worldwide.

Electronic Transactions provides cards, terminals, systems and services for
secure financial and data transactions: smart/cards, pay phones, point-of-sale
and vending terminals, parking and mass transit management, health care
management, gasoline dispensers.  Automatic Test Equipment is a supplier of
automatic test equipment for semiconductors and electronic circuit boards and
diagnostic systems.

Various Measurement & Systems production sites operate for several product
lines: St. Etienne, France - Automatic Test Equipment; Simi Valley, California,
USA - Automatic Test Equipment and Electronic Transactions; Campinas, Brazil -
Electricity Management, Water Management and Electronic Transactions; Buenos
Aires, Argentina - Electricity, Water, and Gas Management and Electronic
Transactions.  Major software and product development efforts are centralized.

Products of the Measurement & Systems industry segment are primarily sold
through Registrant's own sales force, augmented through distributors and
representatives.  The nature of the product range and customer profile allow for
transferability of sales personnel among the product lines and cross-product
line sales forces in key geographic areas.  Such teams represent all five
product lines and geographic areas.  Such teams operate in Asia, Russia, South
America and Central America.  Product demand and pricing in all product lines
are affected by global and national economic conditions.  The price of products
in this industry segment varies from less than one hundred dollars to more than
a million dollars.  There are numerous competitors with regard to these
products, and the principal methods of competition are price, performance, and
service.

Omnes
- -----

Through a joint venture formed with Cable & Wireless plc in January 1995, Omnes
provides communications and information technology solutions to oil and gas
companies and to companies with operations in remote locations. Omnes provides
products and services in the following areas: internet and electronic messaging
services, wide-area and local-area network design and maintenance, and
satellite, security, and business applications solutions.  Through these
activities, Omnes enables energy exploration and production companies to
efficiently exchange information and communicate anywhere in the world.

The activities carried on within the industry segments are:

OILFIELD SERVICES

Wireline & Testing

Formation evaluation, well testing and production services for oil and gas
wells: borehole measurements of petrophysical, geological and seismic
properties; cement and corrosion evaluation; perforating; modular production
systems; permanent monitoring and control systems; production logging; and light
remedial and abandonment services.

Dowell
Engineering and pumping services for cementing, drilling fluids, fracturing,
acidizing, sand control, water control and coiled tubing applications.


 
Geco-Prakla

Seismic data acquisition, processing and interpretation services for marine,
land and transition zone; seismic reservoir monitoring and characterization
services; fully integrated project management including survey evaluation and
design services; acquisition, processing and sales of non-exclusive surveys.

Sedco Forex

Contract drilling services, offshore and on land, with dynamically positioned
drillships, semisubmersibles, jackup rigs, drilling tenders, swamp barges and
land rigs; 83 rigs, comprising 50 offshore (4 offshore charters and 6 management
contracts) and 33 land rigs.

Anadrill
Real-time drilling services: directional drilling, measurements-while-drilling
and logging-while-drilling.

GeoQuest

Exploration and production solutions for optimizing the value of oil and gas
reservoirs: integrated software systems, data management solutions and
processing and interpretive services.

Integrated Project Management

Project management and well engineering services: selection of optimum oilfield
technology; implementation of safety and quality management systems;
coordination and management of operations for well construction, production and
field development projects.

MEASUREMENT & SYSTEMS

Metering

ELECTRICITY

Systems for management of electricity distribution and usage: residential
metering and energy management systems; utility revenue collection systems;
commercial, industrial, transmission and distribution measurement and billing
products and systems; load management systems.

GAS
Systems for management of gas usage: residential, commercial and industrial gas
meters; regulators, governors, safety valves, stations and systems; gas
treatment including filtration, odorization and heating; network management; and
prepayment systems.

WATER
Meters and systems for management of residential, commercial and industrial
water usage covering the range of effective water distribution management and
diverse heat distribution and industrial applications.

Systems & Services

Meter communication systems, including remote metering and wireless
communication systems for utility markets; distributed measurement solutions,
systems integration and data services; and services, providing software and
turnkey installation, repair and maintenance solutions to add value in fully
managed projects.


 
Electronic Transactions

Electronic transaction systems: smart and magnetic cards, terminals, equipment
and management systems for transactions in a wide range of sectors, including
telecommunications, retail and banking, network access and security, systems for
retail petroleum, parking and mass transit, health care management and campus
communities.

Automatic Test Equipment

Design and manufacture of automatic test equipment, diagnostic systems, back-end
automation systems for the testing of semiconductor devices, board test systems
as well as testing complete electronic assemblies.

OMNES

Communications and information technology solutions: wide- and local-area
networks, including satellite based networks, security, Internet, Intranet,
messaging and business application solutions for the energy exploration and
production sector that allow information technology systems to communicate
anywhere in the world.

Acquisitions
- ------------

During 1996, subsidiaries of the Company acquired Solaic, SA (on December 31,
1996), a magnetic and smart card manufacturer; an 80% interest in Printer, a
magnetic stripe card manufacturer; Oilphase Sampling Services Ltd., a reservoir
fluid sampling company; The Production Analyst* and OilField Manager* software
products from OGCI Software, Inc.; Germann, a turnkey gasoline station provider;
Gueant, a gas dispenser service company; and a 33% equity interest in DAP
Technologies Limited, a developer and manufacturer of rugged handheld computer
products. The purchase prices were $75 million, $9 million, $7 million, $8
million, $8 million, $7 million and $4 million, respectively. These acquisitions
were accounted for as purchases. Costs in excess of net assets acquired were $91
million which are being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods between
7 and 25 years.

During 1995, subsidiaries of the Company acquired a further 40% interest in
CGST-Save, a French gas meter service company; the remaining 40% interest in
J.B. Rombach, a German metering business; G.S.I. Saudi Arabia Ltd., a land
seismic company; the Petroleum Division of Intera Information Technologies
Corporation, a reservoir simulation software company; and Danyl Inc., a point-
of-sale terminal manufacturer. The purchase prices were $71 million, $42
million, $15 million, $59 million and $12 million, respectively. These
acquisitions were accounted for as purchases. Costs in excess of net assets
acquired were $167 million which are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over periods between 15 and 25 years.

GENERAL
- -------

Research & Development
- ----------------------

Research to support the engineering and development efforts of Registrant's
activities is conducted at Schlumberger Austin Product Center, Austin, Texas;
Schlumberger Doll Research, Ridgefield, Connecticut; Schlumberger Cambridge
Research, Cambridge, England, and at Fuchinobe, Japan and Montrouge, France.


 
Patents
- -------

While Registrant seeks and holds numerous patents, no particular patent or group
of patents is considered material to Registrant's business.

Seasonality
- -----------

Although weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect delivery of
oilfield services, the widespread geographic location of such services precludes
the overall business from being characterized as seasonal.  However, because
oilfield services are provided in the Northern Hemisphere, severe winter weather
can temporarily affect the delivery of such services and products in the winter
months.

Customers and Backlogs
- ----------------------

Neither Oilfield Services nor Measurement & Systems is dependent on one or a few
customers, the loss of which would have a significant adverse impact on its
business.  Oilfield Services has no backlog since this segment is primarily
service rather than product related.  The Measurement & Systems segment had a
backlog of orders, believed to be firm, of $764 million at December 31, 1996 and
a backlog of $751 million at December 31, 1995 on a comparable basis.  There is
no assurance that any of the current backlog will actually result in sales.
About 60% of Omnes' revenue comes from data communications and networking
services provided to a number of Schlumberger's companies.  Omnes has no backlog
since this segment is primarily service, rather than product, related.

Government Contracts
- --------------------

No material portion of Registrant's business is subject to renegotiation of
profits or termination of contracts by the US Government.

Employees
- ---------

As of December 31, 1996, Registrant had approximately 57,000 employees.

Non-US Operations
- -----------------

Registrant's non-US operations are subject to the usual risks which may affect
such operations. Such risks include unsettled political conditions in certain
areas, exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions,
exchange controls, and currency fluctuations.  Although it is impossible to
predict such occurrences or their effect on the Registrant, management believes
these risks to be acceptable.

Environmental Protection
- ------------------------

Compliance with governmental provisions relating to the protection of the
environment does not materially affect Registrant's capital expenditures,
earnings or competitive position.

Financial Information
- ---------------------

Financial information by industry segment and by geographic area for the years
ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 follows on pages 35 through 39.


 
Item 2             Properties
- ------             -----------

Registrant owns or leases manufacturing facilities, administrative offices,
service centers, research centers, sales offices and warehouses in North
America, Latin America, Europe, Africa, Australia, New Zealand and Asia.  Most
facilities are owned in fee although a few are held through long-term leases.
No significant lease is scheduled to terminate in the near future, and
Registrant believes comparable space is readily obtainable should any lease
expire without renewal. Registrant believes all of its properties are generally
well maintained and adequate for the intended use.

The principal manufacturing facilities related to the Oilfield Services industry
segment are owned in fee and located at Clamart, France; Hannover and Utze,
Germany; Fuchinobe, Japan; Horten and Bergen, Norway; and Tulsa, Oklahoma, and
Austin, Houston, La Marque, Rosharon and Sugar Land, Texas, USA.  Many of the
Registrant's activities in this segment are performed at the client's wellsite.

Outside of the United States, the principal owned or leased facilities related
to the Measurement & Systems industry segment are located at Buenos Aires,
Argentina; Mulgrave, Australia; Vienna, Austria; Brussels, Belgium; Americana
and Campinas, Brazil; Trois Rivieres, Quebec, Canada; Santiago, Chile; Changsha,
China;  Abbeville, Bagnolet, Besancon, Chambray-les-Tours, Chasseneuil,
Colombes, Hagenau, Macon, Massy, Montrouge, Orleans, Poitiers, Pont Audemer,
Reims, Saint Etienne, and Velizy, France; Berlin, Dreieich, Ettlingen, Hameln,
Karlsruhe, Munich, Oldenburg, and Schwelm, Germany; Bladel and Dordrecht,
Holland; Budapest and Godollo, Hungary; Jakarta, Indonesia; Asti, Barlassina,
Frosinone, Milazzo, Milan, Naples, Torino and Vicenza, Italy; Fuchinobe, Japan;
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Famalicao, Portugal; St. Petersburg, Russia; Leon,
Montornes and Rubi, Spain; Taipeh County, Taiwan; Blackburn, Dundee, Felixstowe,
Ferndown, Manchester, Oldham, and Port Glasgow in the United Kingdom.

Within the United States, Measurement & Systems facilities are located in
Tallassee, Montgomery and Mobile, Alabama; San Jose and Simi Valley, California;
Norcross, Georgia; Owenton, Kentucky; Owings Mills, Maryland; Moorestown, New
Jersey; Columbus, Ohio; Greenwood and Oconee, South Carolina; Bonham, Texas, and
Chesapeake, Virginia.

Outside of the United States the principal facilities (all leased) related to
Omnes are located in London, England; Caracas, Venezuela; Montrouge, France; and
Jakarta, Indonesia.  Within the United States, Omnes' principal facilities are
located in Houston, Texas.

See also description of research facilities, "Research & Development", page 4.

Item 3             Legal Proceedings
- ------             -----------------

The Company and its subsidiaries comply with government laws and regulations and
responsible management practices for the protection of the environment. The
Consolidated Balance Sheet includes accruals for the estimated future costs
associated with certain environmental remediation activities related to the past
use or disposal of hazardous materials. Substantially all such costs relate to
divested operations and to facilities or locations that are no longer in
operation. Due to a number of uncertainties, including uncertainty of timing,
the scope of remediation, future technology, regulatory changes and other
factors, it is possible that the ultimate remediation costs may exceed the
amounts accrued. However, in the opinion of management, such additional costs
are not expected to be material relative to consolidated liquidity, financial
position or future results of operations.


 
In a case in Texas involving the validity of a 1988 settlement and release in
connection with an incidental business venture, the trial court, in 1993,
rendered a judgment  notwithstanding the verdict of the jury, exonerating
Schlumberger from any liability. In late 1994, a Texas Court of Appeals reversed
the trial court judgment and reinstated the jury award of about $75 million
against Schlumberger. The Texas Supreme Court granted the Schlumberger motion to
hear the case. Oral argument was held before the Texas Supreme Court on October
11, 1995. Schlumberger and outside counsel believe the decision of the trial
court was correct. Consequently, no provision has been made in the Consolidated
Financial Statements for this matter.

In May 1996, in a case involving a $3 million contract dispute, the trial court
in Johnson County, Texas, entered judgment on jury findings adverse to
Schlumberger for $23 million in damages, which has been doubled, plus attorneys'
fees and interest. The Company and its outside counsel believe the findings and
the judgment are not supported by the evidence and law, and have filed an
appeal. Accordingly, no provision has been made in the financial statements for
this matter.

In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are party to various other legal
proceedings. Although the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is not
presently determinable, in the opinion of the Company any liability that might
ensue would not be material in relation to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Item 4    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
- ------    ---------------------------------------------------

No matters were submitted to a vote of Registrant's security holders during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Registrant, their ages as of
March 1, 1997, and their five-year business histories are as follows:

 


 
 


 
PART II
- -------

Item 5    Market for the Registrant's Common Stock and Related
- ------    -----------------------------------------------------
          Stockholder Matters
          -------------------


As of December 31, 1996, there were 246,537,181 shares of the Common Stock of
the Registrant outstanding, exclusive of 62,330,812 shares held in Treasury, and
held by approximately 22,000 stockholders of record.  The principal United
States market for Registrant's Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange.

Registrant's Common Stock is also traded on the Paris, London, Amsterdam,
Brussels, Frankfurt, Tokyo and Swiss Stock Exchanges.  During 1997 delisting
from the Brussels, Frankfurt, and Tokyo Stock Exchanges was commenced.

Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share
- ------------------------------------------------------------

Quarterly high and low prices for the Company's Common Stock as reported by the
New York Stock Exchange (composite transactions), together with dividends
declared per share in each quarter of 1996 and 1995 were:


There are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or
voting of such shares. United States stockholders are not subject to any
Netherlands Antilles withholding or other Netherlands Antilles taxes
attributable to ownership of such shares.


 
Item 6       Selected Financial Data
- ------       ------------------------



 
 
 
 (1) In 1996, the normal recurring provision for income taxes, before
  recognition of the US tax loss carryforward benefit and the tax effect of the
  unusual items, was $206 million.
 
 
Item 7             Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                   -----------------------------------------------------------
                   and Results of Operations
                   -------------------------
 
The Company has two reportable business industry segments, Oilfield Services and
 Measurement & Systems.



1 Operating income represents income before income taxes, excluding interest
expense and interest and other income, and the unusual items previously
announced in the third quarter of 1996. Explanation of these unusual items
appears in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under "Unusual Items."


 
Oilfield Services
- -----------------

1996 RESULTS
- ------------
Operating revenue for Oilfield Services was 26% above last year with strong
contributions from all activities. Operating income increased 57%.

North America
- -------------

In 1996, North American revenue and operating income rose 21% and 111%,
respectively, compared to 1995, while rig count increased 10%. All activities
contributed to this growth. Most significantly, GeoQuest revenue increased 52%,
with Information Technology and Data Management revenue quadrupling. Dowell and
Wireline & Testing revenues increased 17% and 13%, respectively.

Geco-Prakla significantly expanded its marine activities to acquire high-
quality, non-exclusive seismic data in the Gulf of Mexico. After a five-year
absence, Sedco Forex returned to North America with two rigs under management
contract, the Laffit Pincay in the Gulf of Mexico and the Bill Shoemaker being
readied for work offshore Canada in early 1997.

Outside North America
- ---------------------

Outside North America, revenue and operating income increased 28% and 51%,
respectively, and rig count rose 5%. All regions grew, with significant upswings
in the North Sea, Latin America and West Africa. The largest contributors were
Wireline & Testing and Sedco Forex, up 17% and 42%, respectively. Offshore
dayrates for Sedco Forex increased significantly. Activity for heavy land rigs
grew in the Middle East during the fourth quarter. The trend toward integrated
services continued, resulting in the expansion of Integrated Project Management
(IPM) operations.

Highlights
- ----------

The strong 26% growth of Schlumberger Oilfield Services in 1996 drew from four
factors:
 . growth of the overall market
 . added value of new technology
 . client outsourcing and Schlumberger joint services
 . new markets.

Growth of the Overall Market

In 1996, many events impacted the oilfield environment and Schlumberger
business. The most significant has been an increase in worldwide oil demand of
2.3% over 1995, to a daily average of 72 million barrels. This has driven up the
oil price from $17 to $24 a barrel, a sizable increase of 41%, despite the
partial resumption of Iraqi exports after a six-year absence from the market. In
this environment of strong demand and higher oil prices, oil companies increased
their exploration and production expenditure by 15% in 1996.

With its broad portfolio of services, leading technology and global presence,
Schlumberger is uniquely positioned to take full advantage of this industry
growth. To keep pace with market expansion, Schlumberger boosted capital
expenditures for Oilfield Services by 27%.

Increased exploration and production activity may greatly impact some prices, as
illustrated by surging dayrates for drilling rigs, driven by the shrinking
supply of offshore rigs. The average Sedco Forex rig utilization rate for 1996
was 78.5% compared to 66% in the previous year. Average offshore rig utilization
increased from 89% to 94%, aided by jackup utilization of 100% and
semisubmersible utilization of 96%. Industry-wide competitive offshore rig
utilization was 89% compared to 81% last year. At year end, the 


 
Sedco Forex fleet consisted of 83 rigs, up from 76 at the end of 1995, with 33
land rigs and 50 offshore rigs, including four offshore units under charter,
plus three lake barges and three semisubmersibles under management contract. The
third-generation semisubmersible Actinia was acquired in October. In other
business areas, prices have been generally stable, improving where new
technology was introduced and where activity increased significantly, such as in
North America.

Added Value of New Technology

During the market downturn in the late 1980s, Schlumberger continued to invest
heavily in research and engineering. Today the Company is harvesting the fruits
of this commitment. In response to client needs, new technology is successfully
being applied to improve recovery from existing fields, to lower finding and
producing costs for new reservoirs and to reduce risk. Schlumberger affirmed its
leadership in all its Oilfield Services activities in 1996, and successfully
introduced new technologies and products, among them:

The GeoSteering* tool, which enables the driller to make rapid course
corrections while drilling, made substantial gains in markets in the Far East,
where it contributed to improving well productivity.

The PowerPak* steerable drilling motor, the PowerPulse* measurements-while-
drilling (MWD) telemetry tool and the CDR* Compensated Dual Resistivity tool
enabled Anadrill to set a world record of 15,446 feet drilled in a single run in
an extended-reach well in Argentina. Clients recognized benefits in economic
efficiency and reduced environmental impact.

The SIMPLER* 101 drilling rig, a new modular land rig, was introduced in Gabon,
where it began a five-year integrated services contract in April. This
revolutionary rig introduces a major redesign with streamlined functionalities
to drill high-quality wells at optimum cost. It achieves greater efficiency
through integration of the various elements of the drilling process, requiring
fewer rig personnel. Because it is much smaller than conventional land rigs,
simpler equipment can be quickly moved to new locations, occupies a smaller
footprint and has the flexibility to reduce nondrilling expenses.

Several Dowell drilling fluids products, including QUADRILL*, VISPLEX* and
ULTIDRILL* fluids, gained increased acceptance in 1996, in recognition of their
contributions to drilling efficiency and well productivity. Dowell became the
leader in the technically challenging high-pressure, high-temperature pumping
and cementing markets in the North Sea, Far East and Gulf of Mexico. This
leadership was affirmed by the success of the DeepSEA EXPRES* cementing head, an
innovative technology used for subsea completions. This system greatly improves
the efficiency of casing cementing operations in deep water.

PLATFORM EXPRESS* services, providing the industry's most advanced basic
formation evaluation, and the CMR* Combinable Magnetic Resonance tool, improve
the efficiency of wireline logging and deliver critical answers to difficult
formation evaluation problems. Activities of both services increased eightfold
over 1995 levels.

Marine seismic efficiency continued to improve due to aggressive deployment of
the TRILOGY* onboard data management system and Monowing* multistreamer towing
technology, the most advanced in the industry. Late in the year, the
introduction of the fourth-generation NESSIE* marine streamer, the slimmest in
the world with a 54-mm [2.1-inch] outside diameter, further extended the towing
capacity and efficiency of Geco-Prakla vessels. Efficiency also improved for
Land and Transition Zone seismic, where the Olympus-IMS* land information
management system was completed. These 


 
improvements, combined with highly successful geographic positioning of the
fleet, better weather offshore and stable prices per streamer, led to a 32%
increase in revenue.

Client Outsourcing and
Schlumberger Joint Services

The trend among oil companies to refocus on their core business and outsource
noncore activities plays directly to the technical strength of Schlumberger.
Indicative of this continuing trend, GeoQuest realized its strongest growth in
1996 from Data Management and Information Technology products and services, as
major data management contracts were awarded to Schlumberger for projects
throughout the world.

Because of the increased demand for integrated solutions in the various phases
of the exploration and production process, IPM, the Schlumberger Integrated
Project Management group, was formed in 1995. At the end of 1996, IPM was
supervising, on behalf of clients, the operations of 34 drilling rigs. Having
started mainly with well construction projects, IPM is now also expanding into
production enhancement and maintenance. The priority of IPM is to provide best-
in-class solutions using an independent approach that brings together IPM
expertise, including management tools such as the well engineering management
system, with other Schlumberger expertise and third parties as needed.

Customers are demanding more sophisticated reservoir characterization, more
accurate reservoir monitoring and greater production performance. By taking
advantage of the synergy of technologies across Schlumberger oilfield
activities, the Company has been able to meet these new client demands. For
example, the combination of our efforts in directional drilling, in MWD service
and in wireline logging led to a 57% leap in the Schlumberger logging-while-
drilling (LWD) business. Also, as part of the industry's push toward greater
reservoir efficiency and integration of services, Sedco Forex won the management
contract for two lake barges from Lagoven in Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela. These
two barges were converted to multipurpose service vessels, which can each offer
the combined intervention capabilities of several barges and boats.

Another cross disciplinary technology introduced worldwide in 1996 was the
RAPID* Reentry and Production Improvement Drilling service. RAPID technology is
the single source for a complete range of multidisciplinary services dedicated
to improving production economics through reentry, sidetracking and extending
existing wellbores. The rapid concept was accepted by our clients and activity
increased briskly, led by strong gains in North America.

Coiled tubing drilling (CTD*) technology is providing an effective alternative
to conventional drilling in reentry drilling markets. Dowell and Sedco Forex
joined forces and expertise in CTD technology, and Anadrill developed the new
VIPER* slimhole directional bottomhole assembly for coiled tubing service and
introduced it in the North Sea and in South America. The VIPER system is able to
orient, measure and drill simultaneously, resulting in improved wellbore
efficiency.

Coiled tubing technology also benefited workover activity. In the fourth
quarter, Dowell and Baker Oil Tools introduced CoilWORKS* technology, drawing on
the strategic alliance between Schlumberger and Baker Hughes. The CoilWORKS
service is a seamless answer to workover applications by which the two companies
have combined their best-in-class technologies to address the growing demand for
economic, total system workover solutions for mature fields.


 
New Markets

The world's first commercial 4D seismic service using a proprietary seabed
sensor to compare 3D seismic surveys over time, was successfully launched with
several surveys acquired in the North Sea. This service delivers to clients
improved reservoir characterization and monitoring over the life of the
reservoir and allows more efficient production management.

Reservoir optimization is a key developing market. To enhance Schlumberger
capability in this field and to improve our expertise in fluid acquisition and
analysis, Wireline & Testing acquired the Aberdeen-based company, Oilphase
Sampling Services Limited, a reservoir fluid sampling company.

In order to broaden its software offerings, GeoQuest acquired The Production
Analyst* and OilField Manager* products. Added to existing applications, such as
the Dowell CADE Office* suite of software and the QLA* Quick Look Analysis
software, these products allowed GeoQuest to move fully into both PC- and UNIX-
based production data analysis, reservoir management applications and support.
With the ECLIPSE* reservoir simulation software, the GeoFrame* integrated
reservoir characterization system and the Finder* line of data management
products, GeoQuest now offers the oil industry the most comprehensive range of
integrated software systems, data management solutions and processing and
interpretation services.

Throughout the year, solutions were implemented to respond to complex well
problems. For instance, tracking the flow of different fluids in horizontal and
high-angle wells was once nearly impossible. Now, the newly introduced
production logging technology, PL Flagship* advanced well flow diagnosis
service, can evaluate complex multiphase flow behavior and diagnose production
problems in horizontal wells.

Building on a solid track record in well testing, the Wireline & Testing early
production system (EPS) group has expanded significantly. Modular EPS technology
reduces clients' capital investment, improves their cash flow and lowers risk.
It also provides an efficient means to improve the economics of marginal fields.
Early production systems saw activity in the North Sea and Africa. An additional
unit is being readied for installation in early 1997.

In Marine seismic, Geco-Prakla continued to develop its onboard offshore
processing services. This premium-rate business is now regularly provided on
many deep-sea vessels, reducing drastically the processing turnaround time for
large-volume surveys.


1995 RESULTS
- ------------

North America
- -------------
North American revenue in 1995 rose 3%, and operating income declined 43%,
compared to 1994, while rig count declined 8%.

During the year, PLATFORM EXPRESS technology, the latest-generation wireline
logging service, was introduced, setting new standards for efficiency,
reliability and answers in the wireline logging industry. By year end, there
were 17 PLATFORM EXPRESS units deployed in North America.


 
The erosion of gas prices in 1995 hindered pressure pumping activity. New
stimulation techniques, such as the PropNET* fluid system for hydraulic
fracturing, were successfully implemented, helping to improve customers'
hydrocarbon recovery.

Seismic activities were adversely impacted by weather in the Gulf of Mexico and
lower profitability on sales of non-exclusive seismic data. Market and
technological leadership in MWD and LWD services continued. The ARC5* Array
Resistivity Compensated tool was introduced and received wide client acceptance.
This tool provides accurate LWD resistivity measurements in small-diameter
wellbores.

Sales for Software Products rose sharply, driven by demand for geological,
petrophysical and seismic interpretation software products. During the year,
GeoQuest purchased the Petroleum Division of Intera Information Technologies
Corporation, which was renamed Reservoir Technologies.

Outside North America
- ---------------------

Outside North America, revenue and operating income increased 16% and 53%,
respectively, and rig count rose 3%. Activity was driven predominantly by Latin
America, Africa and the North Sea.

Several important rig contracts were signed, including integrated service
contracts in Thailand and Gabon and the opportunity to reenter the Gulf of
Mexico after a five-year absence. Demand for Modular Early Production Facilities
and sales of the Universal Pressure Platform continued to grow at a rapid rate.
Drilling Fluids services grew substantially in 1995, led by activity in Latin
America and the UK sector of the North Sea.

Momentum built in the first three quarters of 1995 in seismic operations was
offset in the fourth quarter by poor weather in the North Sea and operational
difficulties in Transition Zone operations. Deployment of Monowing multistreamer
towing technology and the TRILOGY data management system continued.

Higher activity and improved drilling rig dayrates in both the North Sea and
West Africa contributed to revenue growth, which was partially offset by a
temporary softening in the swamp barge and tender markets and falling demand for
semisubmersibles in Southeast Asia.

New IDEAL* Integrated Drilling Evaluation and Logging systems were deployed
worldwide, while the PowerPulse MWD telemetry tool continued to set new
standards for reliability and durability.


1994 RESULTS
- ------------

North America
- -------------
In 1994, revenue and operating income in North America rose 19% and 28%,
respectively, over 1993, while rig count grew 11%.

Growth was supported by the continuing deployment of the MAXIS 500* Multitask
Acquisition and Imaging System and the successful introduction of the MAXIS
Express* high-efficiency acquisition system. This innovative system was
specifically designed to operate in high-volume and development markets. Coiled
tubing services, rig-related activity and increased client acceptance of DESC*
Design and Evaluation Services for Clients program combined to offset a slowdown
in fracturing activity due to softening of natural gas prices. In Louisiana, the
Digiseis-FLX* transition zone telemetric acquisition system 


 
was successfully introduced. Directional drilling activity grew with continued
implementation of PowerPak steerable motors and the successful integration of
Great Land Directional Drilling Inc., Alaska's leading directional drilling
company.

Outside North America
- ---------------------
Outside North America, revenue and operating income fell 6% and 1%,
respectively, and rig count fell 5%.

The MAXIS 500 acquisition system was aggressively deployed worldwide, together
with new imaging technology logging tools. Activity from recently acquired
Drilling Fluids services contributed positively to results, with strong activity
in the Far East and Latin America. In Marine seismic, there was a shift away
from proprietary surveys in favor of non-exclusive data in the Gulf of Mexico
and the North Sea. Fleet upgrading was continued to expand the number of
streamers towed per vessel. A decline in Land and Transition Zone activity had
an adverse impact on results. In drilling, weak activity in the first two
quarters was offset by higher activity in the second half of the year. Two
semisubmersibles, the Sedco 700 and Sedneth 701, underwent life-enhancement
modifications in preparation for contracts for tender-assisted drilling in 1995.
Directional drilling activity was strong, supported by MWD and LWD services. The
GeoSteering tool performed successfully in the Gulf of Mexico, the North Sea,
Africa and the Far East. Long-term data management contracts were finalized in
Africa, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East to assist oil companies in
maximizing their computing and data resources.


Measurement & Systems
- ---------------------

1996 RESULTS
- ------------

Revenue for Measurement & Systems increased 3% from 1995, as significant gains
in Electronic Transactions and Systems & Services offset poorer performance in
Electricity & Gas Metering. Orders for the year were up 2%, led by Electronic
Transactions, Water Management and Systems & Services.

Measurement & Systems operating income was 18% below 1995 due to a shift in the
business environment for Electricity & Gas Metering in Europe and a temporary
decline in the demand for semiconductor test equipment, which affected the
Automatic Test Equipment business.

Metering revenue and orders fell 1% and 3%, respectively. Electricity & Gas
Metering revenue was down 5%. European results suffered due to lower demand for
electricity meters, particularly in the UK and Germany, which led to weaker
prices. In France, a shift from electromechanical to lower priced electronic
products exacerbated this problem. In the US, the metering businesses
experienced growth, led by increased worldwide acceptance of their multifunction
and multimeasurement products. Sales of gas meters increased, led by strong
demand from the CIS. Water Management revenue improved 7% supported by a greater
worldwide recognition of the need to conserve water.

Systems & Services revenue increased 12% from 1995. The service businesses grew
in Europe, particularly in the UK, where deregulation has enabled us to do work
previously handled by the utilities. Meter Communication Systems (MCS) grew
through increased shipments of radio meter communication devices to electric
utilities. A new business group, Distributed Measurement Solutions (DMS), was
formed to address opportunities created by deregulation of the energy industry.
Orders were up 10% from 1995 through increased contractual activity in France
and the UK.


 
In 1996, Electronic Transactions revenue and orders grew 18% and 17%,
respectively, from 1995. These results include the impact of the acquisition of
a majority interest in Printer, a Mexican magnetic stripe card manufacturer, and
of Germann, a German turnkey gasoline station provider. Electronic Transactions
also acquired Solaic, a French smart card manufacturer, on December 31, 1996.
Sales of smart cards grew 42% from 1995, excluding the effect of business
acquisitions. This growth was driven by widening acceptance of memory and
microprocessor cards for payphones and cellular phones in China, Italy and the
US. The growth accelerated rapidly throughout the year. Electronic
Transactions was the principal supplier of electronic cash cards and terminals
for the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta.

Automatic Test Equipment revenues in 1996 were comparable to 1995. Significantly
higher volume of IDS10000* diagnostic systems compensated for reduced demand for
other products. Orders increased 3% due to a surge in orders for ITS9000* test
systems during the last quarter.

1995 RESULTS
- ------------

Revenue and orders increased 18% and 21%, respectively, from 1994 due primarily
to acquisitions, favorable currency fluctuations and strong activity in Europe
and Asia. Operating income increased 25% from 1994, led by the metering business
and robust growth of Electronic Transactions.

Compared to 1994, revenue and orders from the metering business improved 14% and
17%, respectively, due to the acquisition of AEG's worldwide electricity
metering operations and healthy demand across Europe. Gains in Electricity can
be attributed to increased demand for remote reading systems in the US, for
electronic meters from EDF, the French national utility, and from telemanagement
systems from ENEL, the national utility in Italy. Demand increased for gas
products in the CIS and Eastern Europe. Expansion in the UK was supported by the
reorganization of British Gas and higher demand from municipalities. Water
Management continued to grow in Western Europe and the US, combined with
significant demand in both Eastern Europe and Asia. During the year, the MAPS*
communications systems were introduced.

In 1995, Systems & Services revenue and orders increased 25%, primarily due to
solid growth of service activities in the UK.

Electronic Transactions revenue and orders increased 31% and 36%, respectively.
These results include the effects of the acquisition of Malco Plastics and
Messerschmidt Apparate in late 1994 and the acquisition of Danyl in 1995. Cards
activity continued to grow due to stronger cellular subscriber demand in Europe
and shipments to China. Telecom benefited from card-based payphone applications,
with higher shipments to Latin America, the Middle East and France. Retail
Petroleum Systems exhibited growth from equipment and service revenue from North
America and Europe, and was further supported by a new service operation in
Russia.

Automatic Test Equipment revenue and orders were both up 32% from 1994. At Test
Systems, sustained growth was spurred by strong demand for the ITS9000 family of
semiconductor test systems in North America, Europe and Asia. Revenue doubled at
Automated Systems, driven by contributions from the entire product range.


 
1994 RESULTS
- ------------
Revenue and orders decreased 1% and 2%, respectively, from 1993. Operating
income was 34% below the prior year.

Compared to 1993, metering revenue was essentially flat while orders dropped 3%.
The majority of growth resulted from the acquisition of AEG's European metering
operations, with additional support from exports to the Middle East and Europe,
and the acquisition of Heliowatt Germany in 1993. For Gas, growth in the UK was
severely impacted by significant curtailments in the conventional residential
meter replacement program. Improvements in Water Management were driven by the
continued strength of the US economy, the economic recovery in France and
Germany, and healthy demand for water meters in Mexico and Argentina.

Systems & Services revenue and orders increased 32% from 1993.

In 1994, Electronic Transactions revenue and orders were up by 9% and 6%,
respectively. Retail Petroleum Systems revenue increased for both equipment and
services in most countries; however, lower product prices resulted in reduced
margins. Messerschmidt Apparate and Malco Plastics were acquired late in the
year.

Revenue and orders at Automatic Test Equipment increased 23% and 29%,
respectively, with all activities experiencing growth. The IDS10000 system was
successfully launched by Diagnostic Systems, and Automated Systems doubled its
activity run rate. Activity continued to strengthen through the year, most
notably in Asia.


In 1996, operating income of the Oilfield Services segment increased $359
million, or 57%, to $986 million. Growth was due to underlying economic factors,
strong demand and the price increases of oil and gas. Other factors included the
success of new and existing services such as PLATFORM EXPRESS and LWD
technologies. In addition, the strong contribution of Geco-Prakla, which has
returned to profitability, had a significant impact. Measurement & Systems
operating income declined by 18% to $124 million because of steep declines at
Automatic Test Equipment and Electricity & Gas Metering. A temporary weakness in
the semiconductor industry was due to soft market conditions and reduced capital
spending by our customers leading to postponements of product deliveries.
Turbulence in the electricity metering markets was due to strong pricing
pressures and lower volumes in the European markets.

In 1995, operating income of the Oilfield Services segment increased $132
million, or 27%, to $627 million. Higher activity outside North America and an
improved Geco-Prakla were partially offset by lower results in the United
States. The only setback was the deterioration in the results of Geco-Prakla,
where operational problems in the last quarter offset significant improvements
during the first nine months. Severe weather in the Gulf of Mexico and West of
Shetland in the North Sea region, lower profitability on NEPS sales and losses
resulting from technical and operational problems in Transition Zone activities


 
were the major factors. Measurement & Systems operating income increased by 25%
to $151 million because of strong growth at Electronic Transactions and
Automatic Test Equipment, and acquisitions.

In 1994, operating income of the Oilfield Services segment increased $27
million, or 6%, to $495 million. Strong oilfield activity in North America and
an improved Geco-Prakla were only partially offset by declines in activity
outside North America. Measurement & Systems operating income declined 34% to
$121 million due mainly to lower results at Electronic Transactions, Gas
Management and Electricity Management. Improvements at Automatic Test Equipment
were not sufficient to offset these shortfalls.

Currency Risks
- --------------

Refer to "Translation of Non-US Currencies" in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for a description of the Company's policy on currency
hedging.  There are no material unhedged assets, liabilities or commitments
which are denominated in other than a business' functional currency.

While changes in exchange rates do affect revenue, especially in the Measurement
& Systems segment, they also affect costs. Generally speaking, the Company is
currency-neutral. For example, a 5% change in average exchange rates of OECD
currencies would have had no material effect on consolidated revenue and net
income.

In general, when the US dollar weakens against other currencies, consolidated
revenue increases with usually no material effect on net income. This is
principally because the fall-through incremental margin in Measurement & Systems
offsets the higher Oilfield Services non-US dollar denominated expenses.

The Company's businesses operate principally in US dollars, most European
currencies and most South American currencies.

Income Tax Expense
- ------------------

With increasing profitability and strong outlook in the US, the Company
recognized 50% of the US income tax benefit related to its US subsidiary's tax
loss carryforward and all temporary differences. This resulted in a credit of
$360 million. Refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under
"Income Tax Expense" for more information.


Interest Expense
- ----------------

Interest expense decreased $10 million in 1996 following a $18 million rise in
1995. The decrease in 1996 was due to lower average rates which more than offset
higher average debt outstanding.

The increase in 1995 was due to an increase in both average debt outstanding and
average rates.


 
Liquidity
- ---------

A key measure of financial position is liquidity, defined as cash plus short-
term and long-term investments less debt. The following table summarizes the
Company's change in consolidated liquidity for each of the past three years:


In 1996, 1995 and 1994, the significant increase in working capital requirements
followed the higher business activity. The major increases were in the working
capital components of receivables and inventory. Higher fixed asset additions
reflected the significant increase in Oilfield Services activities.

The current consolidated liquidity level, combined with liquidity expected from
operations, should satisfy future business requirements.


 
Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share
- ------------------------------------------------------------

Quarterly high and low prices for the Company's Common Stock as reported by the
New York Stock Exchange (composite transactions), together with dividends
declared per share in each quarter of 1996 and 1995 were:


The number of holders of record of the Common Stock of the Company at December
31, 1996, was approximately 22,000. There are no legal restrictions on the
payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares. United States
stockholders are not subject to any Netherlands Antilles withholding or other
Netherlands Antilles taxes attributable to ownership of such shares.

Environmental Matters
- ---------------------

The Company and its subsidiaries comply with government laws and regulations and
responsible management practices for the protection of the environment. The
Consolidated Balance Sheet includes accruals for the estimated future costs
associated with certain environmental remediation activities related to the past
use or disposal of hazardous materials. Substantially all such costs relate to
divested operations and to facilities or locations that are no longer in
operation. Due to a number of uncertainties, including uncertainty of timing,
the scope of remediation, future technology, regulatory changes and other
factors, it is possible that the ultimate remediation costs may exceed the
amounts accrued. However, in the opinion of management, such additional costs
are not expected to be material relative to consolidated liquidity, financial
position or future results of operations. Consistent with the Company's
commitment to protection of the environment, safety and employee health,
additional costs, including capital expenditures, are incurred related to
current operations.


 
Item 8    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
- ------    -------------------------------------------


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
- --------------------------------





See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., Incorporated in the Netherlands
Antilles) and Subsidiary Companies.


 
Item 8    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (cont.)
- ------    ---------------------------------------------------

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., Incorporated in the Netherlands
Antilles) and Subsidiary Companies.



 



 
 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., Incorporated in the Netherlands
Antilles) and Subsidiary Companies.


 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- ------------------------------------------

Summary of Accounting Policies
- ------------------------------

The Consolidated Financial Statements of Schlumberger Limited and its
subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

Principles of Consolidation
- ---------------------------

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of majority-owned
subsidiaries. Significant 20% - 50% owned companies are carried on the equity
method and classified in Other Assets. The Company's pro rata share of after-tax
earnings is included in Interest and other income. Equity in undistributed
earnings of all 50% owned companies at December 31, 1996, was not material.

Use of Estimates
- ----------------

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. While actual
results could differ from these estimates, management believes that the
estimates are reasonable.

Revenue Recognition
- -------------------
Generally, revenue is recognized after services are rendered and products are
shipped.

Translation of Non-US Currencies
- --------------------------------

All assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies other than US
dollars are translated at current exchange rates. The resulting adjustments are
charged  or credited directly to the Stockholders' Equity section of the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Revenue and expenses are translated at the weighted
average exchange rates for the period. All realized and unrealized transaction
gains and losses are included in income in the period in which they occur.
Included in the 1996 results were transaction gains of $10 million, compared to
a loss of $2 million and a gain of $2 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Currency exchange contracts are entered into as a hedge against the effect of
future settlement of assets and liabilities denominated in other than the
functional currency of the individual businesses. Gains or losses on the
contracts are recognized when the currency exchange rates fluctuate, and the
resulting charge or credit offsets the unrealized currency gains or losses on
those assets and liabilities. At December 31, 1996, contracts were outstanding
to purchase the US dollar equivalent of $103 million in various foreign
currencies and to sell the equivalent of $62 million at forward rates on the
dates the contracts were entered. These contracts mature on various dates in
1997.

Investments
- -----------

The Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects the Company's investment portfolio
separated between current and long-term based on maturity. Except for $111
million of investments which are considered trading at December 31, 1996 (1995
$104 million), it is the Company's intent to hold the investments until
maturity.

Both short-term and long-term investments held to maturity are stated at cost
plus accrued interest, which approximates market, and comprise primarily
Eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit and commercial paper,
Euronotes and Eurobonds, substantially all denominated in US dollars.
Substantially all the investments designated as held to maturity


 
that were purchased and sold during the year had original maturities of less
than three months. Short-term investments that are designated as trading are
stated at market. The unrealized holding gain on such securities was not
significant.

Long-term investments mature in 1998-$78 million, in 1999-$92 million and $154
million thereafter.

For purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company does not
consider short-term investments to be cash equivalents as they generally have
original maturities in excess of three months. Short-term investments at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, were $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.

Inventories
- -----------

Inventories are stated principally at average or standard cost, which
approximates average cost, or at market, if lower. Inventory consists primarily
of materials and supplies.

Excess of Investment Over Net Assets of Companies Purchased
- -----------------------------------------------------------

Cost in excess of net assets of purchased companies is amortized on a straight-
line basis over periods ranging from 7 to 40 years. Accumulated amortization was
$287 million and $278 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Fixed Assets and Depreciation
- -----------------------------

Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation, which is provided
for by charges to income over the estimated useful lives of the assets by the
straight-line method. Fixed assets include the manufacturing cost (average cost)
of oilfield technical equipment manufactured by subsidiaries of the Company.
Expenditures for renewals, replacements and betterments are capitalized.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses as incurred. Upon sale
or other disposition, the applicable amounts of asset cost and accumulated
depreciation are removed from the accounts and the net amount, less proceeds
from disposal, is charged or credited to income.

Taxes on Income
- ---------------

The Company and its subsidiaries compute taxes on income in accordance with the
tax rules and regulations of the many taxing authorities where the income is
earned. The income tax rates imposed by these taxing authorities vary
substantially. Taxable income may differ from pretax income for financial
accounting purposes. To the extent that differences are due to revenue or
expense items reported in one period for tax purposes and in another period for
financial accounting purposes, an appropriate provision for deferred income
taxes is made.

Approximately $2.5 billion of consolidated income retained for use in the
business at December 31, 1996, represented undistributed earnings of
consolidated subsidiaries and the Company's pro rata share of 20% - 50% owned
companies. No provision is made for deferred income taxes on those earnings
considered to be indefinitely reinvested or earnings that would not be taxed
when remitted.

Tax credits and other allowances are credited to current income tax expense on
the flow-through method of accounting.


 
Net Income Per Share
- --------------------

Net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the average number of
common shares outstanding during the year. The effect of common stock
equivalents on the computation of earnings per share was not significant.

Research & Engineering
- ----------------------
All research and engineering expenditures are expensed as incurred, including
costs relating to patents or rights that may result from such expenditures.

Unusual Items
- -------------

The Company announced a charge of $300 million after tax in the third quarter
related primarily to the Electricity & Gas and Geco-Prakla Land and Transition
Zone businesses. During the quarter, the Electricity and Gas Management product
lines were combined into a single business in response to the huge market and
technology changes occurring in the energy supply sector. This combination will
result in lower headcount and fewer manufacturing facilities and products. At
Geco-Prakla,  the Land and Transition Zone businesses have improved; however,
they are still in a loss position and accordingly, require radical changes in
organization and structure, and the write-off of Land goodwill. The after-tax
charge of $300 million includes pre-tax charges of $112 million for severance
and termination costs, other facilities' closure costs of $39 million, goodwill
write-offs of $122 million, and other asset impairments/charges of $60 million.

The severance and termination costs relate to less than 5% of the worldwide
workforce primarily in Europe and pertain to both manufacturing and operating
personnel in about 30 locations. Most of the other facilities' closure costs
relate to the write-down of buildings, equipment and other assets to net
realizable value.

In addition, the Company recorded a charge of $58 million after tax, including a
loss on the divestiture of the remaining defense-related activity, certain asset
impairments and other charges. The amount is classified in cost of goods sold
and services ($47 million) and taxes on income ($11 million).

As of December 31, 1996, $12 million of the severance and termination had been
spent. The remainder should be spent within the next 18 months.

Acquisitions
- ------------

During 1996, subsidiaries of the Company acquired Solaic, SA (on December 31,
1996), a magnetic and smart card manufacturer; an 80% interest in Printer, a
magnetic stripe card manufacturer; Oilphase Sampling Services Ltd., a reservoir
fluid sampling company; The Production Analyst* and OilField Manager* software
products from OGCI Software, Inc.; Germann, a turnkey gasoline  station
provider; Gueant, a gas dispenser service company; and a 33% equity interest
in DAP Technologies Limited, a developer and manufacturer of rugged handheld
computer products. The purchase prices were $75 million, $9 million, $7 million,
$8 million, $8 million, $7 million and $4 million, respectively. These
acquisitions were accounted for as purchases. Costs in excess of net assets
acquired were $91 million which are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over periods between 7 and 25 years.

During 1995, subsidiaries of the Company acquired a further 40% interest in CGST
Save, a French gas meter service company; the remaining 40% interest in J.B.
Rombach, a German metering business; G.S.I. Saudi Arabia Ltd., a land seismic
company; the Petroleum Division of Intera Information Technologies Corporation,
a reservoir simulation software company; and Danyl Inc., a point-of-sale
terminal manufacturer. The purchase prices were $71 million, $42 million, $15
million, $59 million and $12 million, 


 
respectively. These acquisitions were accounted for as purchases. Costs in
excess of net assets acquired were $167 million which are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over periods between 15 and 25 years.

Fixed Assets
- ------------
A summary of fixed assets follows:


Estimated useful lives of Buildings & improvements range from 5 to 50 years and
of Machinery and equipment from 2 to 25 years.

Long-Term Debt
- --------------
A summary of long-term debt by currency follows:


Long-term debt is at variable rates; substantially all of the debt is at rates
up to 7%. Such rates are reset every six months or sooner. Accordingly, the
carrying value of long-term debt at December 31, 1996, approximates the
aggregate fair value.

Long-term debt at December 31, 1996, is due $208 million in 1998, $33 million in
1999, $190 million in 2000, $101 million in 2001 and $105 million thereafter.

At December 31, 1996, there were no interest rate swap arrangements outstanding.
At times, interest rate swap arrangements are entered into to adjust non-US
dollar denominated debt and interest rates into US dollars. Interest rate swap
arrangements had no impact in 1996 and an immaterial effect on consolidated
interest expense in 1995. The exposure in the event of nonperformance by the
other parties to the arrangements is not significant.


 
Lines of Credit
- ---------------

At December 31, 1996, the Company's principal US subsidiary had an available
unused Revolving Credit Agreement with a group of banks. The Agreement provided
that the subsidiary may borrow up to $500 million until December 1998 at money
market-based rates. In addition, at December 31, 1996, the Company and its
subsidiaries had available unused lines of credit of approximately $626 million.

Capital Stock
- -------------

The Company is authorized to issue 500,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value
$0.01 per share, of which 246,537,181 and 243,138,086 shares were outstanding on
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The Company is also authorized to
issue 200,000,000 shares of cumulative Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per
share, which may be issued in series with terms and conditions determined by the
Board of Directors. No shares of Preferred Stock have been issued. Holders of
Common Stock and Preferred Stock are entitled to one vote for each share of
stock held.

In January 1993, Schlumberger acquired the remaining 50% interest in the Dowell
Schlumberger group of companies. The purchase price included a warrant, expiring
in 7.5 years and valued at $100 million, to purchase 7.5 million shares of
Schlumberger Limited Common Stock at an exercise price of $59.95 per share. The
warrant is fully vested and nontransferable.

Stock Compensation Plans
- ------------------------

As of December 31, 1996, the Company has two types of stock-based compensation
plans, which are described below. The Company applies APB Opinion 25 and related
Interpretations in accounting for its plans. Accordingly, no compensation cost
has been recognized for its stock option plans and its stock purchase plan. Had
compensation cost for the Company's stock-based plans been determined based on
the fair value at the grant dates for awards under those plans, consistent with
the method of FASB Statement 123, the Company's net income and earnings per
share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below:


As required by FASB Statement 123, the above pro forma data reflects the effect
of stock option grants and the employee stock purchase plan during 1996 and
1995.

Stock Option Plans
- ------------------

During 1996, 1995 and in prior years, officers and key employees were granted
stock options under the Company's stock option plans. The exercise price of each
option equals the market price of the Company's stock on the date of grant; an
option's maximum term is ten years, and options generally vest in 20% increments
over five years.


 
As required by FASB Statement 123, the fair value of each grant is estimated on
the date of grant using the multiple option Black-Scholes option-pricing model
with the following weighted-average assumptions used for 1996 and 1995: dividend
yield of 1.5%; expected volatility of 20%; risk-free interest rates for 1996
grants of 5.38% - 6.36% for officers and 5.09% - 6.01% for all other employees;
risk-free interest rates for 1995 grants of 5.85% - 7.88% for officers and 5.70%
- - 7.66% for all other employees; and expected option lives of 5.50 years for
officers and 2.39 years for other employees. The weighted-average fair value of
options granted during 1996 and 1995 is $21.07 and $17.40, respectively.


A summary of the status of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31,
1996 and 1995, and changes during the years ending on those dates is presented
below:



 
The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding and
exercisable options by two ranges of exercise prices:



Employee Stock Purchase Plan
- ----------------------------

Under the Schlumberger Discounted Stock Purchase Plan, the Company is authorized
to issue up to 8,000,000 shares of Common Stock to its employees. Under the
terms of the Plan, employees can choose each year to have up to 10% of their
annual earnings withheld to purchase the Company's Common Stock. The purchase
price of the stock is 85% of the lower of its beginning or end of the plan year
market price. Under the Plan, the Company sold 741,747 shares and 724,794 shares
to employees in 1996 and 1995, respectively. Compensation cost has been computed
for the fair value of the employees' purchase rights, which was estimated using
the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions for 1996 and 1995:
dividend yield of 1.5%; expected life of one year; expected volatility of 20%;
and risk-free interest rates of 5.71% for 1996 and 5.61% for 1995. The weighted-
average fair value of those purchase rights granted in 1996 and 1995 is $19.45
and $14.42, respectively.

Income Tax Expense
- ------------------

With increasing profitability and strong outlook in the US, in the third quarter
of 1996 the Company recognized 50% of the US income tax benefit related to its
US subsidiary's tax loss carryforward and all temporary differences. This
resulted in a credit of $360 million.

The Company and its subsidiaries operate in over 100 taxing jurisdictions.


 
At December 31, 1996, the US deferred tax asset was $381 million and the
valuation allowance was $53 million.

The Company's US consolidated group has a net operating loss carryforward at
December 31, 1996, of $293 million and net deductible temporary differences were
$782 million. Significant temporary differences pertain to postretirement
medical benefits and fixed assets. Most of the tax loss carryforward will expire
in the years 2002 - 2003.

The normal recurring provision for income taxes in 1996 was $206 million;
effective tax rate was 20%. In 1995 and 1994, the effective tax rates were 16%
and 13%, respectively. The effect of the US operating loss carryforward was a
significant reconciling item between the US statutory federal tax rate (35%) and
the Company's effective tax rate in each year.

The Company's provision for deferred taxes (excluding the effect of the unusual
items) was less than $5 million in each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1996. The remaining component of income tax expense was the current
provision in each year.

Leases and Lease Commitments
- ----------------------------

Total rental expense was $232 million in 1996, $206 million in 1995 and $192
million in 1994. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases
for years ending December 31 are: 1997 $90 million; 1998 $72 million; 1999 $58
million; 2000 $40 million; and 2001 $30 million. For the ensuing three five-year
periods, these commitments decrease from $35 million to $3 million. The minimum
rentals over the remaining terms of the leases aggregate $25 million.

Contingencies
- -------------

The Company and its subsidiaries comply with government laws and regulations and
responsible management practices for the protection of the environment. The
Consolidated Balance Sheet includes accruals for the estimated future costs
associated with certain environmental remediation activities related to the past
use or disposal of hazardous materials. Substantially all such costs relate to
divested operations and to facilities or locations that are no longer in
operation. Due to a number of uncertainties, including uncertainty of timing,
the scope of remediation, future technology, regulatory changes and other
factors, it is possible that the ultimate remediation costs may exceed the
amounts accrued. However, in the opinion of management, such additional costs
are not expected to be material relative to consolidated liquidity, financial
position or future results of operations.

In a case in Texas involving the validity of a 1988 settlement and release in
connection with an incidental business venture, the trial court, in 1993,
rendered a judgment notwithstanding the verdict of the jury, exonerating
Schlumberger from any liability. In late 1994, a Texas Court of Appeals reversed
the trial court judgment and reinstated the jury award of about $75 million
against Schlumberger. The Texas Supreme Court granted the Schlumberger motion to
hear the case. Oral argument was held before the Texas Supreme Court on October
11, 1995. Schlumberger and outside counsel believe the decision of the trial
court was correct. Consequently, no provision has been made in the Consolidated
Financial Statements for this matter.

In May 1996, in a case involving a $3 million contract dispute, the trial court
in Johnson County, Texas, entered judgment on jury findings adverse to
Schlumberger for $23 million in damages, which has been doubled, plus attorneys'
fees and interest. The Company and its outside counsel believe the findings and
the judgment are not supported by the


 
evidence and law, and have filed an appeal. Accordingly, no provision has been
made in the financial statements for this matter.

In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries are party to various other legal
proceedings. Although the ultimate disposition of these proceedings is not
presently determinable, in the opinion of the Company any liability that might
ensue would not be material in relation to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Segment Information
- -------------------

The Company's business comprises three segments: Oilfield Services, Measurement
& Systems and Omnes. Services and products are described in more detail on pages
2,3 and 4 in this report.

Oilfield Services and Measurement & Systems are reportable segments.

Financial information for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, by
industry segment and by geographic area is as follows:

Transfers between segments and geographic areas are for the most part made at
regular prices available to unaffiliated customers.

Certain Oilfield Services segment fixed assets are manufactured within that
segment.

During the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, neither sales to any
government nor sales to any single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated
operating revenue.

Corporate assets largely comprise short-term and long-term investments.


 
 

8

 
                                                          (Stated in millions)
                               Oilfield  Measurement         Adjust.   Consol-
                               Services    & Systems         & Elim.    idated
                               --------  -----------         -------   -------
INDUSTRY SEGMENT 1994
Operating revenue
 Customers                     $4,362       $2,335           $  -       $6,697
 Inter-segment transfers            3            4             (7)           -
                               ------       ------           ----      -------
                               $4,365       $2,339           $ (7)      $6,697
                               ======       ======           ====      =======
Operating income               $  495       $  121           $(23)      $  593
                               ------       ------           ----      
Interest expense                                                           (63)
Interest and other income plus other credits -$3                            87
                                                                       -------
Income before taxes                                                     $  617
                                                                       =======
Depreciation expense           $  625       $   92           $  5       $  722
                               ------       ------           ----      -------
Fixed asset additions          $  661       $   91           $ 31       $  783
                               ------       ------           ----      -------
At December 31                                                         
 Identifiable assets           $4,766       $1,936           $(14)      $6,688
 Corporate assets                                                        1,634
                                                                       -------
 Total assets                                                           $8,322
                                                                       =======

 



 



 
Pension and Other Benefit Plans
- -------------------------------

US Pension Plans
- ----------------

The Company and its US subsidiary sponsor several defined benefit pension plans
that cover substantially all employees. The benefits are based on years of
service and compensation on a career-average pay basis. These plans are
substantially fully funded with a trustee in respect to past and current
service. Charges to expense are based upon costs computed by independent
actuaries. The funding policy is to contribute annually amounts that are
allowable for federal income tax purposes. These contributions are intended to
provide for benefits earned to date and those expected to be earned in the
future.

The assumed discount rate, compensation increases and return on plan assets used
to determine pension expense in all years were 7.5%, 4.5% and 8.5%,
respectively.

Net pension cost in the US for 1996, 1995 and 1994, included the following
components:


Effective January 1, 1996, the Company and its subsidiaries amended their
pension plans to improve retirement benefits for current employees. The funded
status at December 31, 1995, reflects the amendment.


 
The funded status of the plans at December 31, 1996 and 1995, was as follows:


Assumed discount rate and rate of compensation increases used to determine the
projected benefit obligations were 8% and 4.5%, respectively; the expected long-
term rate of return on plan assets was 8.5%. Plan assets at December 31, 1996,
consist of common stocks ($504 million), cash or cash equivalents ($42 million),
fixed income investments ($135 million) and other investments ($90 million).
Less than 1% of the plan assets at December 31, 1996, represented Schlumberger
Limited Common Stock.


Non-US Pension Plans
- --------------------

Outside of the US, subsidiaries of the Company sponsor several defined benefit
and defined contribution plans that cover substantially all employees who are
not covered by statutory plans. For defined benefit plans, charges to expense
are based upon costs computed by independent actuaries. These plans are
substantially fully funded with trustees in respect to past and current service.
For all defined benefit plans, pension expense was $16 million, $13 million and
$16 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The only significant defined
benefit plan is in the UK.

The assumed discount rate, compensation increases and return on plan assets used
to determine pension expense in all years were 7.5%, 5% and 8.5%, respectively.


 
Net pension cost in the UK plan for 1996, 1995 and 1994 (translated into US
dollars at the average exchange rate for the periods), included the following
components:


The assumed discount rate and rate of compensation increases used to determine
the projected benefit obligation were 8% and 5%, respectively; the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets was 8.5%. Plan assets consist of common
stocks ($219 million), cash or cash equivalents ($6 million) and fixed income
investments ($52 million). None of the plan assets represents Schlumberger
Limited Common Stock.


 
For defined contribution plans, funding and cost are generally based upon a
predetermined percentage of employee compensation. Charges to expense in 1996,
1995 and 1994, were $15 million, $14 million and $12 million, respectively.

Other Deferred Benefits
- -----------------------

In addition to providing pension benefits, the Company and its subsidiaries have
other deferred benefit programs. Expense for these programs was $93 million, $80
million and $71 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Health Care Benefits
- --------------------

The Company and its US subsidiary provide health care benefits for certain
active employees. The cost of providing these benefits is recognized as expense
when incurred and aggregated $38 million, $37 million and $34 million in 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively. Outside of the United States, such benefits are
mostly provided through government-sponsored programs.

Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions
- -------------------------------------------
The Company and its US subsidiary provide certain health care benefits to former
employees who have retired under the US pension plans.

In 1996, service cost and interest cost expenses were $13 million and $26
million, respectively, compared to $12 million and $25 million in 1995. The
principal actuarial assumptions used to measure the above-mentioned costs were a
discount rate of 7.5% in 1996 and 7.5% in 1995, and a medical cost trend rate of
10% graded to 6% over the next six years and 6% thereafter.

The funded status at December 31, 1996 and 1995, was as follows:


The assumed discount rate used to determine the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was 8% for 1996 and 7.5% in 1995. At December 31, 1996, the
medical cost trend rate has been lowered to reflect actual experience over the
last four years to 9% graded to 5% over the next six years and 5% thereafter.

If the assumed medical cost trend rate was increased by one percentage point,
health care cost in 1996 would have been $45 million, and the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation would have been $324 million at December 31,
1996.


 
Supplementary Information
- -------------------------
Operating revenue and related cost of goods sold and services comprised the
following:
 
 
Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as follows:
                                  (Stated in millions)
Year ended
 December 31,                   1996     1995    1994
                              ------   ------  ------
Interest                      $   73   $   81  $   64
Income taxes                  $  179   $  132  $  148
 
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities are summarized as follows:
 
                          (Stated in millions)
December 31,                     1996     1995
                               ------   ------
Payroll, vacation and         
 employee benefits             $  488   $  425
Trade                             712      564
Taxes, other than income          182      156
Other                             818      629
                               ------   ------
                               $2,200   $1,774
                               ======   ======

The caption "Interest and other income" includes interest income, principally
from short-term and long-term investments, of $73 million, $89 million and $78
million for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, partially offset by the Company's
share of the loss from the Omnes joint venture of $5 million in 1996.


 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of Schlumberger Limited

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related
consolidated statements of income, of stockholders' equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Schlumberger
Limited and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.


Price Waterhouse LLP
New York, New York
January 23, 1997


 
QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
- -----------------------------

The following table summarizes results for each of the four quarters for the
years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995.  Gross profit equals operating revenue
less cost of goods sold and services.



Item 9    Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosures
- ------    -----------------------------------------------------

NONE


 
PART III
- --------

Item 10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
- -------  --------------------------------------------------

See Part I (pages 7 and 8) for Item 10 information regarding Executive
Officers of the Registrant.  The information with respect to the remaining
portion of Item 10 is set forth in the first section under the caption,
"Election of Directors", in the Proxy Statement, and is incorporated by
reference.


Item 11  Executive Compensation
- -------  ----------------------

The information set forth under "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" (other than that set
forth under the subcaptions "Corporate Performance Graph" and "Compensation
Committee Report on Executive Compensation") in the Proxy Statement is
incorporated by reference.

Item 12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
- -------  --------------------------------------------------------------

The information with respect to Item 12 is set forth in the Proxy Statement
under the caption, "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" and such information is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
- -------  ----------------------------------------------

The information with respect to Item 13 is set forth in the last paragraph of
the section headed, "Board and Committees", in the Company's Proxy Statement
dated March 7, 1997, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.


 
PART IV
- --------

Item 14  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
- -------  ----------------------------------------------------------------

  The following documents are filed as part of this report:    Page(s)


Financial statements of 20% - 50% owned companies accounted for under the equity
method and unconsolidated subsidiaries have been omitted because they do not
meet the materiality tests for assets of income.

  (2)          Financial Statement Schedules

                 Not required.

  (3)          The following Exhibits are filed:
               ---------------------------------

               Deed of Incorporation as last
               amended on May 21, 1987                  Exhibit 3
               
               By-Laws as last amended on
               October 20, 1993                         Exhibit 3
               
               Schlumberger 1994 Stock Option Plan,     
               as amended on January 5, 1995*           Exhibit 10(a) 


 
               Schlumberger Limited Supplementary
               Benefit Plan, as amended on January 1,
               1995*                                    Exhibit 10(b)
               
               Schlumberger 1989 Stock Incentive
               Plan, as amended*                        Exhibit 10(c)
               
               Schlumberger 1979 Stock
               Incentive Plan, as amended*              Exhibit 10(d)
               
               Schlumberger 1979 Incentive
               Stock Option Plan, as amended*           Exhibit 10(e)
               
               Schlumberger Restoration Savings Plan*   Exhibit 10(f)

        *Compensatory plan required to be filed as an exhibit.
 
               Subsidiaries                             Exhibit 21
 
               Consent of Independent
               Accountants                              Exhibit 23
 
               Powers of Attorney
               dated January 24, 1997:                  Exhibit(s) 24

               Don E. Ackerman                          (a)
               D. Euan Baird                            (b)
               Denys Henderson                          (c)
               Andre Levy-Lang                          (d)
               William T. McCormick, Jr.                (e)
               Didier Primat                            (f)
               Nicolas Seydoux                          (g)
               Linda G. Stuntz                          (h)
               Sven Ullring                             (i)
               Eiji Umene                               (j)
               
               Additional Exhibit:                      
                Form S-8 Undertakings                   Exhibit  99 

  No reports on Form 8-K have been filed during the last quarter of the period
covered by this report.


 
                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED
 
Date:  March 31, 1997           By :  /s/ Arthur Lindenauer
                                      ---------------------
                                Arthur Lindenauer
                                Executive Vice President -
                                Finance; Chief Financial Officer
                                and Chief Accounting Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

           Name                                 Title
- -----------------------------         --------------------------


     *
_____________________________      Director, Chairman, President
     D. Euan Baird                 and Chief Executive Officer



 /s/ Arthur Lindenauer             Executive Vice President
- -----------------------------      Finance; Chief Financial Officer 
     Arthur Lindenauer             and Chief Accounting Officer      
                                   

     *
_____________________________      Director
     Don E. Ackerman


     *
_____________________________      Director
     Denys Henderson


     *
_____________________________      Director
     Andre Levy-Lang


     *
_____________________________      Director
     William T. McCormick, Jr.


 
           Name                                 Title
- -----------------------------         --------------------------



     *
_____________________________         Director
     Didier Primat                    
                                      
                                      
     *                                
_____________________________         Director
     Sven Ullring                     
                                      
                                      
     *                                
_____________________________         Director
     Nicolas Seydoux                  
                                      
                                      
     *                                
_____________________________         Director
     Linda G. Stuntz                  
                                      
                                      
     *                                
_____________________________         Director
     Eiji Umene



  /s/ David S. Browning               March 31, 1997
- -----------------------------      

* By David S. Browning
     Attorney-in-Fact


 



