
10-K
IPG 1994 10K FORM


                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C. 20549

                            FORM 10-K
         Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended               Commission file number
December 31, 1994                                 1-6686

              THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     Delaware                                     13-1024020
(State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)              Identification  No.)

1271 Avenue of the Americas                        10020
New York, New York                               (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

(212) 399-8000
            Registrant's telephone number, including area code

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange on
Title of each class                         which registered     
                                             
Common Stock                            New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X .  No___.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this
chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ____.

The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock
(exclusive of shares beneficially owned by persons referred to in
response to Item 12 hereof) was $2,418,268,527 as of March 21,
1995.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

Common Stock outstanding at March 21, 1995: 77,925,241 shares.
PAGE

                    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.   Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
     ended December 31, 1994 are incorporated by reference in
     Parts I and II.

2.   Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1995 Annual Meeting
     of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Parts I and
     III.


PAGE

                                  PART I

Item 1.   Business

     The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. was incorporated in
Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson
Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency
businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by
Harrison K. McCann.  It has operated under the Interpublic name
since January 1961.  As used in this Annual Report, the
"Registrant" or "Interpublic" refers to The Interpublic Group of
Companies, Inc. while the "Company" refers to Interpublic and its
subsidiaries.

     The advertising agency business is the primary business of
the Company.  This business is carried on throughout the world
through three advertising agency systems, McCann-Erickson
Worldwide, Lintas Worldwide and The Lowe Group.  The Company also
offers advertising agency services through association
arrangements with local agencies in various parts of the world. 
Other activities conducted by the Company within the area of
"marketing communications" include market research, sales
promotion, product development, direct marketing, telemarketing
and other related services.

     The principal functions of an advertising agency are to plan
and create advertising programs for its clients and to place
advertising in various media such as television, cable, radio,
magazines, newspapers, transit, direct response media and
outdoor.  The planning function involves analysis of the market
for the particular product or service, evaluation of alternative
methods of distribution and choice of the appropriate media to
reach the desired market most efficiently.  The advertising
agency then creates an advertising program, within the limits
imposed by the client's advertising budget, and places orders for
space or time with the media that have been selected.

     The principal advertising agency subsidiaries of Interpublic
operating within the United States directly or through
subsidiaries and the locations of their respective corporate
headquarters are:

McCann-Erickson USA, Inc..........      New York, New York

Lintas Campbell-Ewald
 Company..........................      Detroit (Warren),
                                          Michigan

Lintas, Inc.......................      New York, New York

Dailey & Associates...............      Los Angeles, California

Lowe & Partners Inc...............      New York, New York

Ammirati & Puris, Inc.............      New York, New York
PAGE

     In addition to domestic operations, the Company provides
advertising services for clients whose business is international
in scope as well as for clients whose business is restricted to a
single country or a small number of countries.  It has offices in
Canada as well as in one or more cities in each of the following
countries:

                                     
               EUROPE, AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST

Austria          Germany      Namibia        South Africa
Belgium          Greece       Netherlands    Spain
Croatia          Hungary      Norway         Sweden
Czech Republic   Ireland      Poland         Switzerland
Denmark          Italy        Portugal       Turkey
Finland          Ivory Coast  Romania        United Arab Emirates
France           Kenya        Russia         United Kingdom
                              Slovakia       Zimbabwe
                              Slovenia


                    LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

Argentina      Costa Rica          Honduras       Peru
Barbados       Dominican Republic  Jamaica        Puerto Rico
Bermuda        Ecuador             Mexico         Trinidad
Brazil         El Salvador         Panama         Uruguay
Chile          Guatemala           Paraguay       Venezuela
Colombia



                           ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

Australia      Japan          People's Republic   South Korea
Hong Kong      Malaysia         of China          Taiwan
India          Nepal          Philippines         Thailand
               New Zealand    Singapore           

     Operations in the foregoing countries are carried on by one
or more operating companies, at least one of which is either
wholly owned by Interpublic or a subsidiary or is a company in
which Interpublic or a subsidiary owns a 51% interest or more,
except in India and Nepal, where Interpublic or a subsidiary
holds a minority interest.

     The Company also offers advertising agency services in
Aruba, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Belize, Bolivia, Cambodia, Cameroon,
Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, Grand Cayman, Guadeloupe, Guyana, Haiti,
Reunion, Indonesia, Iran, Israel, Ivory Coast, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Martinique, Mauritius, Morocco, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slovakia, Slovenia,
Sri Lanka, Surinam, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates
(Dubai), Venezuela, VietNam and Zaire through association
arrangements with local agencies operating in those countries. 
PAGE

     For information concerning revenues, operating profits and
identifiable assets on a geographical basis for each of the last
three years, reference is made to Note 13: Geographic Areas of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1994, which Note is hereby incorporated by
reference.

Developments in 1994

     The Company completed several acquisitions and divestitures
within the United States and abroad in 1994.

     Effective as of August 11, 1994, Ammirati & Puris Holdings,
Inc., a holding company, and its subsidiaries, Ammirati & Puris,
Inc. and Ammirati & Puris, Ltd. were acquired.  Ammirati & Puris,
Inc. is an advertising agency with headquarters in New York City,
while Ammirati & Puris, Ltd. is based in Canada.

     As of November 28, 1994, the Company acquired Western
International Media Corporation ("Western") and approximately
eighteen affiliated sub-chapter S corporations.  Western is in
the business of media buying and placement, and is based in Los
Angeles.

Income from Commissions, Fees and Publications

     The Company generates income from planning, creating and
placing advertising in various media.  Historically, the
commission customary in the industry was 15% of the gross charge
("billings") for advertising space or time; more recently lower
commissions have frequently been negotiated, but often with
additional incentives for better performance.  For example, an
incentive component is frequently included in arrangements with
clients based on increases in a client's sales of the products or
services being advertised.  Under commission arrangements, media
bill the Company at their gross rates.  The Company bills these
amounts to its clients, remits the net charges to the media and
retains the balance as its commission.  Some clients, however,
prefer to compensate the Company on a fee basis, under which the
Company bills its client for the net charges billed by the media
plus an agreed-upon fee.  These fees usually are calculated to
reflect the Company's salary costs and out-of-pocket expenses
incurred on the client's behalf, plus proportional overhead and a
profit mark-up.  

PAGE

     Normally, the Company, like other advertising agencies, is
primarily responsible for paying the media with respect to firm
contracts for advertising time or space.  This is a problem only
if the client is unable to pay the Company because of insolvency
or bankruptcy.  The Company makes serious efforts to reduce the
risk from a client's insolvency, including (1) carrying out
credit clearances, (2) requiring in some cases payment of media
in advance, or (3) agreeing with the media that the Company will
be solely liable to pay the media only after the client has paid
the Company for the media charges.

     The Company also receives commissions from clients for
planning and supervising work done by outside contractors in the
physical preparation of finished print advertisements and the
production of television and radio commercials and infomercials. 
This commission is customarily 17.65% of the outside contractor's
net charge, which is the same as 15% of the outside contractor's
total charges including commission.  With the spread of
negotiated fees, the terms on which outstanding contractors'
charges are billed are subject to wide variations and even
include in some instances the elimination of commissions entirely
provided that there are adequate negotiated fees.

     The Company derives income in many other ways, including the
planning and placement in media of advertising produced by
unrelated advertising agencies; the maintenance of specialized
media placement facilities; the creation and publication of
brochures, billboards, point of sale materials and direct
marketing pieces for clients; the planning and carrying out of
specialized marketing research; managing special events at which
clients' products are featured; and designing and carrying out
interactive programs for special uses.

     The five clients of the Company that made the largest
contribution in 1994 to income from commissions and fees
accounted individually for 2% to 10% of such income and in the
aggregate accounted for over 31% of such income.  Twenty clients
of the Company accounted for approximately 44% of such income. 
Based on income from commissions and fees, the three largest
clients of the Company are General Motors Corporation, Unilever
and The Coca-Cola Company.  General Motors Corporation first
became a client of one of the Company's agencies in 1916 in the
United States.  Predecessors of several of the Lintas agencies
have supplied advertising services to Unilever since 1893.  The
client relationship with The Coca-Cola Company began in 1942 in
Brazil and in 1955 in the United States.  While the loss of the
entire business of one of the Company's three largest clients
might have a material adverse effect upon the business of the
Company, the Company believes that it is very unlikely that the
entire business of any of these clients would be lost at the same
time, because it represents several different brands or divisions
of each of these clients in a number of geographical markets - in
each case through more than one of the Company's agency systems. 

 PAGE

     Representation of a client rarely means that the Company
handles advertising for all brands or product lines of the client
in all geographical locations.  Any client may transfer its
business from an advertising agency within the Company to a
competing agency, and a client may reduce its advertising budget
at any time.  The Company's advertising agencies in many
instances have written contracts with their clients.   

As is customary in the industry, these contracts provide for
termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually
90 days but sometimes shorter or longer.  In 1994, however, [43%]
of income from commissions and fees was derived from clients that
had been associated with one or more of the Company's agencies or
their predecessors for 20 or more years.

Personnel

     As of January 1, 1995, the Company employed approximately
18,200 persons, of whom approximately 5,400 were employed in the
United States.  Because of the personal service character of the
marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of
crucial importance to continuing success.  There is keen
competition for qualified employees.  Interpublic considers its
employee relations to be satisfactory.

     The Company has an active program for training personnel. 
The program includes meetings and seminars throughout the world. 
It also involves training personnel in its offices in New York
and in its larger offices worldwide.

Competition and Other Factors

     The advertising agency and other marketing communications
businesses are highly competitive.  The Company's agencies and
media services must compete with other agencies, both large and
small, and also with other providers of creative or media
services which are not themselves advertising agencies, in order
to maintain existing client relationships and to obtain new
clients.  Competition in the advertising agency business depends
to a large extent on the client's perception of the quality of an
agency's "creative product".  An agency's ability to serve
clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad
geographic basis is also an important competitive consideration. 
On the other hand, because an advertising agency's principal
asset is its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost
unlimited and quite small agencies are, on occasion, able to take
all or some portion of a client's account from a much larger
competitor.

PAGE

     Moreover, increasing size brings limitations to an agency's
potential for securing new business, because many clients prefer
not to be represented by an agency that represents a competitor. 
Also, clients frequently wish to have different products
represented by different agencies.  The fact that the Company
owns three separate worldwide agency systems and interests in
other advertising agencies gives it additional competitive
opportunities.

     The advertising business is subject to government
regulation, both domestic and foreign.  There has been an
increasing tendency in the United States on the part of
advertisers to resort to the courts to challenge comparative
advertising on the grounds that the advertising is false and
deceptive.  Through the years, there has been a continuing
expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions,
labeling disclosures and warning requirements with respect to the
advertising for certain products.  Representatives within state
governments and the federal government as well as foreign
governments continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising
of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions
for advertising which, if successful, may have an adverse effect
on advertising expenditures.

     Some countries are relaxing commercial restrictions as part
of their efforts to attract foreign investment.  However, with
respect to other nations, the international operations of the
Company still remain exposed to certain risks which affect
foreign operations of all kinds, such as local legislation,
monetary devaluation, exchange control restrictions and unstable
political conditions.  In addition, international advertising
agencies are from time to time exposed to the threat of forced
divestment in favor of local investors because they are
considered an integral factor in the communications process.  A
provision of the present constitution in the Philippines is an
example.


Item 2.   Properties

     Most of the advertising operations of the Company are
carried on in leased premises, and its physical property consists
primarily of leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and
equipment.  These facilities are located in various cities in
which the Company does business throughout the world.  However,
subsidiaries of the Company own office buildings in Louisville,
Kentucky; Warren, Michigan; Frankfurt, Germany; Sao Paulo,
Brazil; Lima, Peru; and Brussels, Belgium and own office
condominiums in Buenos Aires, Argentina; Bogota, Colombia;
Manila, the Philippines; in England, subsidiaries of the Company
own office buildings in London, Manchester, Birmingham and Stoke-
on-Trent.

PAGE

    
      The office building located in Warren, Michigan is held by
the Company subject to a mortgage which will terminate in April,
2000.  The Company's ownership of the office building in
Frankfurt is subject to three mortgages which became effective on
or about February 1993.  These mortgages terminate at different
dates, with the last to expire in February 2003.  Reference is
made to Note 14 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities - of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1994, which Note is hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

     Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject
to any pending material legal proceedings.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     Not applicable.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     There follows the information disclosed in accordance with
Item 401 of Regulation S-K of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "Commission") as required by Item 10 of Form 10-K
with respect to executive officers of the Registrant.

Name                     Age             Office

Philip H. Geier, Jr. (1)  60  Chairman of the Board, President
                              and Chief Executive Officer

Eugene P. Beard (1)       59  Executive Vice President-Finance
                              and Operations and Chief Financial
                              Officer

Frank B. Lowe (1)         53  Chairman of The Lowe Group 

Kenneth L. Robbins (1)(2) 59  Chairman of the Board and Chief
                              Executive Officer of Lintas
                              Worldwide

C. Kent Kroeber           56  Senior Vice President-Human
                              Resources

Christopher Rudge         57  Senior Vice President, General
                              Counsel and Secretary

Thomas J. Volpe           59  Senior Vice President-Financial
                              Operations

Joseph M. Studley         42  Vice President and Controller

(1)  Also a Director
(2)  Through July 1, 1995

PAGE

     There is no family relationship among any of the executive
officers.

     The employment histories for the past five years of Messrs.
Geier, Beard and Lowe are incorporated by reference to the Proxy
Statement for Interpublic's 1995 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

     Mr. Kroeber joined Interpublic in January 1966 as Manager of
Compensation and Training.  He was elected a Vice President in
1970 and Senior Vice President in May 1980.
     Mr. Robbins has been a director of Interpublic since 1991. 
He directed the international operations of Lintas:Worldwide as
Chairman of Lintas International from 1985 and became Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Lintas:Worldwide on
September 1, 1991.

     Mr. Rudge has been associated with Interpublic since January
1, 1973, when he joined it as an Attorney in its Law Department. 
He was elected Vice President and Assistant General Counsel on
May 15, 1984 and was elected to the additional office of
Assistant Secretary on May 20, 1986.  Effective January 1, 1989,
he was elected General Counsel and Secretary.  On May 15, 1990,
Mr. Rudge was elected a Senior Vice President of Interpublic.

     Mr. Volpe joined Interpublic on March 3, 1986.  He was
appointed Senior Vice President-Financial Operations on March 18,
1986.  He served as Treasurer from January 1, 1987 through May
17, 1988 and the Treasurer's office continues to report to him. 
He was Vice President and Treasurer of Colgate-Palmolive Company
from February 1981 to February 1986 and Assistant Corporate
Controller prior thereto.

     Mr. Studley, who has been elected as Vice President and
Controller of Interpublic effective as of April 1, 1994, had been
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of E.C.
Television, a division of Interpublic, since January 1, 1990.  He
was a Vice President of Lintas New York, a division of one of
Interpublic's subsidiaries, from August 1, 1987 until December
31, 1989.

PAGE

                                  PART II


Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters                  

     The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1994.  See Note 12: Results by Quarter (Unaudited),
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
information under the heading Transfer Agent and Registrar for
Common Stock. 


Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

     The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1994 under the heading Selected Financial Data for
Five Years.


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations

     The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1994 under the heading Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The response to this Item is incorporated in part by
reference to the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for
the year ended December 31, 1994 under the headings Financial
Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Reference is also made to the Financial Statement Schedules
listed under Item 14(a) of this Report on Form 10-K.


Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
          Accounting and Financial Disclosure

     Not applicable.

PAGE

                                PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 1995 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement"), to be filed not
later than 120 days after the end of the 1994 calendar year,
except for the description of Interpublic's Executive Officers
which appears in Part I of this Report on Form 10-K under the
heading Executive Officers of the Registrant.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the Proxy Statement.  Such incorporation by
reference shall not be deemed to incorporate specifically by
reference the information referred to in Item 402(a)(8) of
Regulation S-K.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the Proxy Statement.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the Proxy Statement.  Such incorporation by
reference shall not be deemed to incorporate specifically by
reference the information referred to in Item 402(a)(8) of
Regulation S-K.

                                  PART IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
          Form 8-K

     (a)  Listed below are all financial statements, financial
statement schedules and exhibits filed as part of this Report on
Form 10-K.

          1.   Financial Statements:

               See the Index to Financial Statements on page F-1.

          2.   Financial Statement Schedules:

               See the Index to Financial Statement Schedules on
               page F-1.
PAGE

          3.   Exhibits:

     (Numbers used are the numbers assigned in Item 601 of
Regulation S-K and the EDGAR Filer Manual.  An additional copy of
this exhibit index immediately precedes the exhibits filed with
this Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits transmitted to the
Commission as part of the electronic filing of the Report.)

Exhibit No.    Description


3    (i)  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
          Registrant, as amended is incorporated by reference to
          its Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1992.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

    (ii)  The By-Laws of the Registrant, amended as of February
          19, 1991, are incorporated by reference to its Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.  See
          Commission file number 1-6686.

4         Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders.

          Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1992, between
          Interpublic and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
          York is not included as an Exhibit to this Report but
          will be furnished to the Commission upon its request.

10   Material Contracts.

     (a)  Underwriting Agreement, dated March 30, 1992, by and
          between Interpublic and Goldman Sachs International
          Limited is incorporated by reference to Registrant's
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1992.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

     (b)  Employment, Consultancy and other Compensatory
          Arrangements with Management.

          Employment and Consultancy Agreements and any
          amendments or supplements thereto and other
          compensatory arrangements filed with the Registrant's
          Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31,
          1980 through December 31, 1993, inclusive, are
          incorporated by reference in this Report on Form 10-K. 
          See Commission file number 1-6686.  Listed below are
          agreements or amendments to agreements between the
          Registrant and its executive officers which remain in
          effect on and after the date hereof or were executed
          during the year ended December 31, 1994 and thereafter,
          which are filed as exhibits to this Report on Form 10-
          K.

PAGE

          (i)  Eugene P. Beard

               Supplemental Agreement made as of January 1, 1995
               to an Employment Agreement made as of January 1,
               1983.
               
     (c)  Executive Compensation Plans.
         
          (i)  Trust Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1990 between
               The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., Lintas
               Campbell-Ewald Company, McCann-Erickson USA, Inc.,
               McCann-Erickson Marketing, Inc., Lintas, Inc. and
               Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, as Trustee,
               is incorporated by reference to Registrant's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1990.  See Commission file number 1-
               6686.
                              
         (ii)  The Stock Option Plan (1988) and the Achievement
               Stock Award Plan of the Registrant are
               incorporated by reference to Appendices C and D of
               the Prospectus dated May 4, 1989 forming part of
               its Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-
               28143).

        (iii)  The Management Incentive Compensation Plan of the
               Registrant is incorporated by reference to the
               Appendix of the Prospectus dated March 21, 1988
               forming part of its Registration Statement on Form
               S-8 (No. 33-20291).

         (iv)  The 1986 Stock Incentive Plan of the Registrant is
               incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1993.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

          (v)  The 1986 United Kingdom Stock Option Plan of the
               Registrant is incorporated by reference to
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1992.  See Commission file
               number 1-6686.

         (vi)  The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1985) of the
               Registrant, as amended, is incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

        (vii)  The Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the
               Registrant is incorporated by reference to
               Appendix A of the Prospectus dated December 12,
               1988 forming part of its Registration Statement on
               Form S-8 (No. 33-25555).

PAGE

       (viii)  Resolution of the Board of Directors adopted on
               February 16, 1993, amending the Long-Term
               Performance Incentive Plan is incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

         (ix)  Resolution of the Board of Directors adopted on
               May 16, 1989 amending the Long-Term Performance
               Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference to
               Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the year
               ended December 31, 1989.  See Commission file
               number 1-6686.

     (d)  Loan Agreements.  

          (i)  Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994 to
               the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30,
               1992, and effective as of December 30, 1992,
               between Interpublic and Citibank.

         (ii)  Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994 to
               the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30,
               1992, and effective as of December 23, 1992,
               between Interpublic and NBD.

        (iii)  Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994 to
               the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30,
               1992, and effective as of December 30, 1992,
               between Interpublic and Trust Company Bank.

         (iv)  Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994 to
               the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30,
               1992, and effective as of December 30, 1992,
               between Interpublic and Swiss Bank.

          (v)  Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 2, 1994 to
               a Guarantee, dated as of December 17, 1991,
               between Interpublic and Lloyds Bank.

         (vi)  Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994 to
               the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30,
               1992, and effective as of December 30, 1992,
               between Interpublic and Fuji Bank.

        (vii)  Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994 to
               the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30,
               1992 and effective as of December 30, 1992,
               between Interpublic and Chemical.

       (viii)  Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994 to
               the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 30,
               1992 and effective as of December 30, 1992,
               between Interpublic and UBS.

PAGE

         (ix)  Credit Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1994
               between Interpublic and Bank of America National
               Trust and Savings Association.

          (x)  Other Loan and Guaranty Agreements filed with the
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               years ended December 31, 1988 and December 31,
               1986 are incorporated by reference in this Report
               on Form 10-K.  Other Credit Agreements, amendments
               to various Credit Agreements, Termination
               Agreements, Loan Agreements, a Note Purchase
               Agreement, dated August 20, 1991, Guarantee, dated
               December 17, 1991, Notification dated March 14,
               1991 by Registrant and Intercreditor Agreements
               filed with the Registrant's Report on Form 10-K
               for the years ended December 31, 1989 through
               December 31, 1993, inclusive and filed with
               Registrant's Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods
               ended March 31, 1994 and June 30, 1994 are
               incorporated by reference into this Report on Form
               10-K.  See Commission file number 1-6686.
          
     (e)  Leases.

               Material leases of premises are incorporated by
               reference to the Registrant's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 1980
               and December 31, 1988.  See Commission file number
               1-6686.

     (f)  Acquisition Agreement for Purchase of Real Estate.

          (i)  Acquisition Agreement (in German) between
               Treuhandelsgesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft & Co.
               Grundbesitz OHG and McCann-Erickson Deutschland
               GmbH & Co. Management Property KG ("McCann-
               Erickson Deutschland") and the English translation
               of the Acquisition Agreement are incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

PAGE

     (g)  Mortgage Agreements and Encumbrances.

          (i)  Summaries In German and English of Mortgage
               Agreements between McCann-Erickson Deutschland and
               Frankfurter Hypothekenbank Aktiengesellschaft
               ("Frankfurter Hypothekenbank"), Mortgage
               Agreement, dated January 22, 1993, between McCann-
               Erickson Deutschland and Frankfurter
               Hypothekenbank, Mortgage Agreement, dated January
               22, 1993, between McCann-Erickson Deutschland and
               Hypothekenbank are incorporated by reference to
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1993.  See Commission file
               number 1-6686.  Summaries In German and English of
               Mortgage Agreement, between McCann-Erickson
               Deutschland and Frankfurter Sparkasse and Mortgage
               Agreement, dated January 7, 1993, between McCann-
               Erickson Deutschland and Frankfurter Sparkasse are
               incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1992.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

         (ii)  Summaries In German and English of Documents
               Creating Encumbrances In Favor of Frankfurter
               Hypothekenbank and Frankfurter Sparkasse In
               Connection With the Aforementioned Mortgage
               Agreements, Encumbrance, dated January 15, 1993,
               In Favor Of Frankfurter Hypothekenbank, and
               Encumbrance, dated January 15, 1993, In Favor of
               Frankfurter Sparkasse are incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

        (iii)  Loan Agreement (in English and German), dated
               January 29, 1993 between Lintas Deutschland GmbH
               and McCann-Erickson Deutschland is incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

11   Computation of Earnings Per Share.

PAGE

13   This Exhibit includes: (a) those portions of the Annual
     Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994
     which are included therein under the following headings:
     Financial Highlights; Management's Discussion and Analysis
     of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations;
     Consolidated Balance Sheet; Consolidated Statement of
     Income; Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows; Consolidated
     Statement of Stockholders' Equity; Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements (the aforementioned consolidated
     financial statements together with the Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements hereinafter shall be referred to as the
     "Consolidated Financial Statements"); Report of Independent
     Accountants; Selected Financial Data For Five Years; Report
     of Management; and Stockholders' Information; and (b)
     Appendix to Exhibit 13.

21   Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23   Consent of Independent Accountants.

24   Power of Attorney to sign Form 10-K and resolution of Board
     of Directors re Power of Attorney.

29   (a)  Supplemental Agreements filed with Registrant's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1990 are incorporated by reference into this Report on
          Form 10-K.  See Commission file number 1-6686.
               
     (b)  The Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan as adopted on
          July 18, 1989 is incorporated by reference to
          Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated
          August 1, 1989 (No. 00017904) and, as amended, by
          reference to Registrant's Registration Statement on
                    Form 8 dated October 3, 1989 (No. 00106686).
                                SIGNATURES


     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.


                         THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
                                       (Registrant)



March 28, 1995                BY: Philip H. Geier, Jr.            
                                  Philip H. Geier, Jr.,
                                  Chairman of the Board,
                                  President and Chief
                                  Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.


     Name                          Title                    Date 

                      Chairman of the Board,       March 28, 1995
                      President and Chief Executive
Philip H. Geier, Jr.  Officer (Principal Executive 
Philip H. Geier, Jr.  Officer) and Director

                       Executive Vice President    March 28, 1995
                       -Finance and Operations 
Eugene P. Beard        (Principal Financial
Eugene P. Beard        Officer) and Director

                                                       
*Lynne V. Cheney       Director                    March 28, 1995
Lynne V. Cheney


*Frank B. Lowe         Director                    March 28, 1995
Frank B. Lowe  

PAGE

*Kenneth L. Robbins    Director                    March 28, 1995
Kenneth L. Robbins



*Leif H. Olsen         Director                    March 28, 1995
Leif H. Olsen



*J. Phillip Samper     Director                    March 28, 1995
J. Phillip Samper



*Joseph J. Sisco       Director                    March 28, 1995
Joseph J. Sisco



*Frank Stanton         Director                    March 28, 1995
Frank Stanton



Joseph M. Studley   
Joseph M. Studley      Vice President and          March 28, 1995
                       Controller (Principal
                       Accounting Officer)



*Jacqueline G. Wexler  Director                    March 28, 1995
Jacqueline G. Wexler




*By Philip H. Geier, Jr.
    Philip H. Geier, Jr.
    Attorney-in-fact
















PAGE

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


The Financial statements appearing under the headings:  Financial
Highlights, Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations, Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, Report of Independent Accountants,
Selected Financial Data for Five Years and Report of Management
accompanying Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December
31, 1994, together with the report thereon of Price Waterhouse dated
February 13, 1995 appearing on page 35 thereof, are incorporated by
reference in this report on Form 10-K.  With the exception of the
aforementioned information and the information incorporated in Items 5,
6 and 7, no other data appearing in the Annual Report to Stockholders
for the year ended December 31, 1994 is deemed to be filed as part of
this report on Form 10-K.

The following financial statements schedules should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements in such Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994.  Financial statement
schedules not included in this report on Form 10-K have been omitted
because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in
the financial statements or the notes thereto.

Separate financial statements for the companies which are 50% or less
owned and accounted for by the equity method have been omitted because,
considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they do not
constitute a significant subsidiary.


                    INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES            

                                                            Page
Report of Independent Accountants on 
     Financial Statement Schedules                          F-2

Consent of Independent Accountants                          F-2

Financial Statement Schedules Required to be Filed by Item 8 of this
form:

     II     Amounts Receivable from Related Parties and
            Underwriters, Promoters, and Employees Other
            than Related Parties                           F-3

    VIII    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts              F-4

    IX      Short-Term Borrowings                          F-5

    X       Supplementary Income Statement Information     F-6

                                     F-1
PAGE

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors of
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated February 13, 1995 appearing in the 1994 Annual Report to
Stockholders of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (which report
and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial
Statement Schedules listed in Item 14 (a) of this Form 10-K.  In our
opinion, these Financial Statement Schedules present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.

PRICE WATERHOUSE, LLP
New York, New York
February 13, 1995

                      CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (the
"Company"), of our report dated February 13, 1995, appearing in the 1994
Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K: Registration Statements No. 2-79071; No. 2-43811; No. 2-
56269; No. 2-61346; No. 2-64338; No. 2-67560; No. 2-72093; No. 2-88165;
No. 2-90878, No. 2-97440 and No. 33-28143, relating variously to the
Stock Option Plan (1971), the Stock Option Plan (1981), the Stock Option
Plan (1988) and the Achievement Stock Award Plan of the Company;
Registration Statements No. 2-53544; No. 2-91564, No. 2-98324, No. 33-
22008 and No. 33-64062, relating variously to the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (1975) and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1985) of the Company;
Registration Statements No. 33-20291 and No. 33-2830 relating to the
Management Incentive Compensation Plan of the Company; Registration
Statement No. 33-5352 and No. 33-21605 relating to the 1986 Stock
Incentive Plan and 1986 United Kingdom Stock Option Plan of the Company;
and Registration Statement No. 33-10087 and No. 33-25555 relating to the
Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the Company.  We also consent to
the incorporation by reference of our report on the Financial Statement
Schedules, which appears on this Form of the 10-K.  We hereby consent to
the incorporation by reference in the Prospectus constituting part of the
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-37346) of the Interpublic
Group of Companies, Inc. of our report dated February 13, 1995, appearing
in the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We also consent to the incorporation by
reference of our report on the Financial Statement Schedules, which
appears above.


PRICE WATERHOUSE, LLP
New York, New York
March 24, 1995
                                      F-2
PAGE

                                                                 SCHEDULE II

       THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
         AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND UNDERWRITERS,
            PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES.

            For the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

                           (Dollars in Thousands)

                                                                           
COLUMN A           COLUMN B     COLUMN C    COLUMN D   COLUMN E   COLUMN F

                                                                            
                   Balance at               Deductions -          Balance
                   Beginning                Amounts               at End    
Name of Debtor     of Period    Additions   Collected  Other  of Period

1994:

A. Gomes           $    68      $    0      $   68     $   0      $     0
D. Holt         12,000         700         100         0       12,600



1993:

A. Gomes           $   137      $    0      $  (45)    $ (24)     $    68
G. Bowen               300           0        (300)        0            0


1992:
A. Gomes           $     0      $  137      $   0      $   0      $   137
G. Bowen                 0         300          0          0          300



                        
[FN]

  Effect of currency translation.

  Resulting from 1994 acquisitions.

                                       F-3

PAGE

                                                       SCHEDULE VIII

         THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

              For the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

                             (Dollars in Thousands)

                                                                           
COLUMN A      COLUMN B         COLUMN C           COLUMN D      COLUMN E
                                                                           

                              Additions     
                           (1)       (2)
             Balance     Charged   Charged
                at         to      to Other                    Balance
             Beginning   Costs &   Accounts-     Deductions-   at End 
Description  of Period   Expenses  Describe      Describe      Period     

Allowance for
  Doubtful Accounts -
  deducted from
  Receivables in the
  Consolidated
  Balance Sheet:

   1994      $16,834     $6,522    $4,097    $6,109     $22,656
                                      613 

   1993      $15,559     $5,600    $  764    $3,823     $16,834
                                      898     2,360 

   1992      $18,553     $4,320    $  449    $5,497     $15,559
                                                  2,266 

                        
[FN]

    Allowance for doubtful accounts of acquired and newly consolidated 
           companies.
    Foreign currency translation adjustment.
    Principally amounts written off.
    Reversal of previously written off accounts.
    Miscellaneous.
             
                                      F-4
PAGE




                                                                  SCHEDULE X

       THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC. AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
                 SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

            For the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

                           (Dollars in Thousands)


                                                                       
     COLUMN A                                COLUMN B

                                                                       
     Item                         Charged to Costs and Expenses       


                                 1994         1993         1992


Maintenance and repairs         $20,822      $20,127      $22,196



Amortization of                 $18,335      $18,730      $19,573
  Intangible Assets


Taxes Other Than Payroll        $19,128      $16,561      $18,519
  and Income Taxes




















                                    F-6
PAGE

                             INDEX TO DOCUMENTS

Exhibit No. Description

3    (i)    The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
            Registrant, as amended is incorporated by reference to its
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992. 
            See Commission file number 1-6686.

    (ii)    The By-Laws of the Registrant, amended as of February 19,
            1991, are incorporated by reference to its Report on Form
            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.  See Commission
            file number 1-6686.

4           Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders.

            Indenture, dated as of April 1, 1992, between Interpublic
            and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York is not
            included as an Exhibit to this Report but will be furnished
            to the Commission upon its request.

10    Material Contracts.

      (a)   Underwriting Agreement, dated March 30, 1992, by and
            between Interpublic and Goldman Sachs International Limited
            is incorporated by reference to Registrant's Report on Form
            10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See Commission
            file number 1-6686.

      (b)   Employment, Consultancy and other Compensatory Arrangements
            with Management.

                        Employment and Consultancy Agreements and any
                        amendments or supplements thereto and other
                        compensatory arrangements filed with the
                        Registrant's Reports on Form 10-K for the
                        years ended December 31, 1980 through December
                        31, 1993, inclusive, are incorporated by
                        reference in this Report on Form 10-K.  See
                        Commission file number 1-6686.  Listed below
                        are agreements or amendments to agreements
                        between the Registrant and its executive
                        officers which remain in effect on and after
                        the date hereof or were executed during the
                        year ended December 31, 1994 and thereafter,
                        which are filed as exhibits to this Report on
                        Form 10-K.

            (i)         Eugene P. Beard

                        Supplemental Agreement made as of January 1,
                        1995 to an Employment Agreement made as of
                        January 1, 1983.


                                 INDEX - 1
PAGE

                        
      (c)   Executive Compensation Plans.
          
           (i)          Trust Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1990
                        between The Interpublic Group of Companies,
                        Inc., Lintas Campbell-Ewald Company, McCann-
                        Erickson USA, Inc., McCann-Erickson Marketing,
                        Inc., Lintas, Inc. and Manufacturers Hanover
                        Trust Company, as Trustee, is incorporated by
                        reference to Registrant's Annual Report on
                        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                        1990.  See Commission file number 1-6686.
                                                          
          (ii)          The Stock Option Plan (1988) and the
                        Achievement Stock Award Plan of the Registrant
                        are incorporated by reference to Appendices C
                        and D of the Prospectus dated May 4, 1989
                        forming part of its Registration Statement on
                        Form S-8 (No. 33-28143).

         (iii)          The Management Incentive Compensation Plan of
                        the Registrant is incorporated by reference to
                        the Appendix of the Prospectus dated March 21,
                        1988 forming part of its Registration
                        Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-20291).

          (iv)          The 1986 Stock Incentive Plan of the
                        Registrant is incorporated by reference to
                        Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                        the year ended December 31, 1993.  See
                        Commission file number 1-6686.

           (v)          The 1986 United Kingdom Stock Option Plan of
                        the Registrant is incorporated by reference to
                        Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                        the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
                        Commission file number 1-6686.

          (vi)          The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1985) of the
                        Registrant, as amended, is incorporated by
                        reference to Registrant's Annual Report on
                        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                        1993.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

                                 INDEX - 2
PAGE

         (vii)          The Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of
                        the Registrant is incorporated by reference to
                        Appendix A of the Prospectus dated December
                        12, 1988 forming part of its Registration
                        Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-25555).

        (viii)          Resolution of the Board of Directors adopted
                        on February 16, 1993, amending the Long-Term
                        Performance Incentive Plan is incorporated by
                        reference to Registrant's Annual Report on
                        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                        1992.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

          (ix)          Resolution of the Board of Directors adopted
                        on May 16, 1989 amending the Long-Term
                        Performance Incentive Plan is incorporated by
                        reference to Registrant's Report on Form 10-K
                        for the year ended December 31, 1989.  See
                        Commission file number 1-6686.

      (d)   Loan Agreements.  

           (i)          Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994
                        to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September
                        30, 1992, and effective as of December 30,
                        1992, between Interpublic and Citibank.

              (ii)      Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994
                        to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September
                        30, 1992, and effective as of December 23,
                        1992, between Interpublic and NBD.

             (iii)      Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994
                        to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September
                        30, 1992, and effective as of December 30,
                        1992, between Interpublic and Trust Company
                        Bank.

              (iv)      Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994
                        to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September
                        30, 1992, and effective as of December 30,
                        1992, between Interpublic and Swiss Bank.

               (v)      Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 2, 1994
                        to a Guarantee, dated as of December 17, 1991,
                        between Interpublic and Lloyds Bank.

              (vi)      Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994
                        to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September
                        30, 1992, and effective as of December 30,
                        1992, between Interpublic and Fuji Bank.

         (vii)          Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994
                        to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September
                        30, 1992 and effective as of December 30,
                        1992, between Interpublic and Chemical.
PAGE

                                 INDEX - 3

            (viii)      Amendment, No. 4, dated as of December 1, 1994
                        to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September
                        30, 1992 and effective as of December 30,
                        1992, between Interpublic and UBS.

          (ix)          Credit Agreement, dated as of December 1, 1994
                        between Interpublic and Bank of America
                        National Trust and Savings Association.

           (x)          Other Loan and Guaranty Agreements filed with
                        the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                        for the years ended December 31, 1988 and
                        December 31, 1986 are incorporated by
                        reference in this Report on Form 10-K.  Other
                        Credit Agreements, amendments to various
                        Credit Agreements, Termination Agreements,
                        Loan Agreements, a Note Purchase Agreement,
                        dated August 20, 1991, Guarantee, dated
                        December 17, 1991, Notification dated March
                        14, 1991 by Registrant and Intercreditor
                        Agreements filed with the Registrant's Report
                        on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31,
                        1989 through December 31, 1993, inclusive and
                        filed with Registrant's Reports on Form 10-Q
                        for the periods ended March 31, 1994 and June
                        30, 1994 are incorporated by reference into
                        this Report on Form 10-K.  See Commission file
                        number 1-6686.
            
      (e)   Leases.

                        Material leases of premises are incorporated
                        by reference to the Registrant's Annual Report
                        on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31,
                        1980 and December 31, 1988.  See Commission
                        file number 1-6686.

      (f)   Acquisition Agreement for Purchase of Real Estate.

           (i)          Acquisition Agreement (in German) between
                        Treuhandelsgesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft &
                        Co. Grundbesitz OHG and McCann-Erickson
                        Deutschland GmbH & Co. Management Property KG
                        ("McCann-Erickson Deutschland") and the
                        English translation of the Acquisition
                        Agreement are incorporated by reference to
                        Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                        the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
                        Commission file number 1-6686.

PAGE

                                 INDEX - 4

      (g)   Mortgage Agreements and Encumbrances.

           (i)          Summaries In German and English of Mortgage
                        Agreements between McCann-Erickson Deutschland
                        and Frankfurter Hypothekenbank
                        Aktiengesellschaft ("Frankfurter
                        Hypothekenbank"), Mortgage Agreement, dated
                        January 22, 1993, between McCann-Erickson
                        Deutschland and Frankfurter Hypothekenbank,
                        Mortgage Agreement, dated January 22, 1993,
                        between McCann-Erickson Deutschland and
                        Hypothekenbank are incorporated by reference
                        to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                        the year ended December 31, 1993.  See
                        Commission file number 1-6686.  Summaries In
                        German and English of Mortgage Agreement,
                        between McCann-Erickson Deutschland and
                        Frankfurter Sparkasse and Mortgage Agreement,
                        dated January 7, 1993, between McCann-Erickson
                        Deutschland and Frankfurter Sparkasse are
                        incorporated by reference to Registrant's
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                        December 31, 1992.  See Commission file number
                        1-6686.

          (ii)          Summaries In German and English of Documents
                        Creating Encumbrances In Favor of Frankfurter
                        Hypothekenbank and Frankfurter Sparkasse In
                        Connection With the Aforementioned Mortgage
                        Agreements, Encumbrance, dated January 15,
                        1993, In Favor Of Frankfurter Hypothekenbank,
                        and Encumbrance, dated January 15, 1993, In
                        Favor of Frankfurter Sparkasse are
                        incorporated by reference to Registrant's
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                        December 31, 1992.  See Commission file number
                        1-6686.

         (iii)          Loan Agreement (in English and German), dated
                        January 29, 1993 between Lintas Deutschland
                        GmbH and McCann-Erickson Deutschland is
                        incorporated by reference to Registrant's
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                        December 31, 1992.  See Commission file number
                        1-6686.

11    Computation of Earnings Per Share.

13    This Exhibit includes: (a) those portions of the Annual Report
      to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994 which are
      included therein under the following headings: Financial
      Highlights; Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results Of Operations; Consolidated Balance Sheet;
      Consolidated Statement of Income; Consolidated Statement of Cash
      Flows; Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity; Notes to
      Consolidated Financial Statements (the aforementioned
      consolidated financial statements together

                              INDEX - 5PAGE

      with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements hereinafter
      shall be referred to as the "Consolidated Financial
      Statements"); Report of Independent Accountants; Selected
      Financial Data For Five Years; Report of Management; and
      Stockholders' Information; and (b) Appendix to Exhibit 13.

21    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23    Consent of Independent Accountants.

24    Power of Attorney to sign Form 10-K and resolution of Board of
      Directors re Power of Attorney.

29    (a)   Supplemental Agreements filed with Registrant's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990
            are incorporated by reference into this Report on Form 10-
            K.  See Commission file number 1-6686.
                        
      (b)   The Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan as adopted on July
            18, 1989 is incorporated by reference to Registrant's
            Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated August 1, 1989
            (No. 00017904) and, as amended, by reference to
            Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8 dated October
            3, 1989 (No. 00106686).

                                 INDEX - 6
 

