
10-K
1997 FORM 10-K



               SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C. 20549

                            FORM 10-K

         Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended               Commission file number
December 31, 1997                                 1-6686

              THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     Delaware                                     13-1024020
(State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)              Identification  No.)

1271 Avenue of the Americas                        10020
New York, New York                               (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

                         (212) 399-8000
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                        Name of each exchange on
Title of each class                         which registered     
                                             
Common Stock                            New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X .  No ___.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this
chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  X .

PAGE

The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock
(exclusive of shares beneficially owned by persons referred to in
response to Item 12 hereof) was $7,849,666,419 as of March 23,
1998.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest
practicable date.

Common Stock outstanding at March 23, 1998: 131,754,675 shares.

                DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.   Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
     ended December 31, 1997 are incorporated by reference in
     Parts I and II.

2.   Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting
     of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Parts I and
     III.

PAGE

                              PART I


Item 1.   Business

     The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. was incorporated in
Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson
Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency
businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by
Harrison K. McCann.  It has operated under the Interpublic name
since January 1961.  As used in this Annual Report, the
"Registrant" or "Interpublic" refers to The Interpublic Group of
Companies, Inc. while the "Company" refers to Interpublic and its
subsidiaries.

     The advertising agency business is the primary business of
the Company.  This business is conducted throughout the world
through three advertising agency systems, McCann-Erickson
WorldGroup, Ammirati Puris Lintas and The Lowe Group. 
Interpublic also carries on a media buying business through its
ownership of Western International Media and its affiliates, as
well as a separate direct and promotional marketing business
through its ownership of DraftWorldwide Inc.  The Company also
offers advertising agency services through association
arrangements with local agencies in various parts of the world. 
Other activities conducted by the Company within the area of
"marketing communications" include public relations, graphic
design, market research, sales promotion, interactive services,
sports and event marketing, consulting and other related
services.

     The principal functions of an advertising agency are to plan
and create advertising programs for its clients and to place
advertising in various media such as television, cinema, radio,
magazines, newspapers, direct mail, outdoor and interactive
electronic media.  The planning function involves analysis of the
market for the particular product or service, evaluation of
alternative methods of distribution and choice of the appropriate
media to reach the desired market most efficiently.  The
advertising agency develops a communications strategy and then
creates an advertising program, within the limits imposed by the
client's advertising budget, and places orders for space or time
with the media that have been selected.

     The principal advertising agency subsidiaries of Interpublic
operating within the United States directly or through
subsidiaries and the locations of their respective corporate
headquarters are:
PAGE

Ammirati Puris Lintas Inc.........      New York, New York

Campbell-Ewald
 Company..........................      Detroit (Warren),
                                          Michigan

Campbell Mithun Esty LLC..........      Minneapolis, Minnesota

Dailey & Associates...............      Los Angeles, California

DraftWorldwide, Inc...............      Chicago, Illinois

Lowe & Partners Inc...............      New York, New York

McCann-Erickson USA, Inc..........      New York, New York



     In addition to domestic operations, the Company provides
advertising services for clients whose business is international
in scope as well as for clients whose business is restricted to a
single country or a small number of countries.  It has offices in
Canada as well as in one or more cities in each of the following
countries:
                                 
               EUROPE, AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST

Austria          Greece        Nigeria       Spain
Belgium          Hungary       Norway        Sweden
Bulgaria         Israel        Pakistan      Switzerland
Cameroon         Ireland       Poland        Tunisia
Croatia          Italy         Portugal      Turkey
Czech Republic   Ivory Coast   Romania       United Arab Emirates
Denmark          Kenya         Russia        United Kingdom
Estonia          Mauritius     Senegal       Zambia
Finland          Morocco       Slovakia      Zimbabwe
France           Namibia       Slovenia      
Germany          Netherlands   South Africa  

                    LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

Argentina    Colombia               Guatemala     Peru
Barbados     Costa Rica             Honduras      Puerto Rico
Bermuda      Dominican Republic     Jamaica       Trinidad
Brazil       Ecuador                Mexico        Uruguay
Chile        El Salvador            Panama        Venezuela

page>
                       ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

Australia    Japan           People's Republic    Sri Lanka
Hong Kong    Malaysia           of China          South Korea
India        Nepal           Philippines          Taiwan
Indonesia    New Zealand     Singapore            Thailand
                                                  Vietnam

     Operations in the foregoing countries are carried on by one
or more operating companies, at least one of which is either
wholly owned by Interpublic or a subsidiary or is a company in
which Interpublic or a subsidiary owns a 51% interest or more,
except in Malawi and Nepal, where Interpublic or a subsidiary
holds a minority interest.

     The Company also offers advertising agency services in
Albania, Aruba, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Belize, Bolivia, Cambodia,
Egypt, Gabon, Ghana, Grand Cayman, Guadeloupe, Guam, Guyana,
Haiti, Reunion, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Martinique,
Myanmar, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Surinam, Uganda, United Arab Emirates (Dubai) and Zaire
through association arrangements with local agencies operating in
those countries. 

     For information concerning revenues, operating profits and
identifiable assets on a geographical basis for each of the last
three years, reference is made to Note 13: Geographic Areas of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the
Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997, which Note is hereby incorporated by
reference.

Developments in 1997

     The Company completed a number of acquisitions within the
United States and abroad in 1997. 

     See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
incorporated by reference in this Report on Form 10-K for a
discussion of acquisitions.

Income from Commissions and Fees

     The Company generates income from planning, creating and
placing advertising in various media.  Historically, the
commission customary in the industry was 15% of the gross charge
("billings") for advertising space or time; more recently lower
commissions have been negotiated, but often with additional
incentives for better performance.  For example, an incentive
component is frequently included in arrangements with clients

based on increases in a client's sales of the products or
services being advertised.  Under commission arrangements, media
bill the Company at their gross rates.  The Company bills these
amounts to its clients, remits the net charges to the media and
retains the balance as its commission.  Some clients, however,
prefer to compensate the Company on a fee basis, under which the
Company bills its client for the net charges billed by the media
plus an agreed-upon fee.  These fees usually are calculated to
reflect the Company's salary costs and out-of-pocket expenses
incurred on the client's behalf, plus proportional overhead and a
profit mark-up.  

     Normally, the Company, like other advertising agencies, is
primarily responsible for paying the media with respect to firm
contracts for advertising time or space.  This is a problem only
if the client is unable to pay the Company because of insolvency
or bankruptcy.  The Company makes serious efforts to reduce the
risk from a client's insolvency, including (1) carrying out
credit clearances, (2) requiring in some cases payment of media
in advance, or (3) agreeing with the media that the Company will
be solely liable to pay the media only after the client has paid
the Company for the media charges.

     The Company also receives commissions from clients for
planning and supervising work done by outside contractors in the
physical preparation of finished print advertisements and the
production of television and radio commercials and other forms of
advertising.  This commission is customarily 17.65% of the
outside contractor's net charge, which is the same as 15% of the
outside contractor's total charges including commission.  With
the spread of negotiated fees, the terms on which outstanding
contractors' charges are billed are subject to wide variations
and even include in some instances the elimination of commissions
entirely provided that there are adequate negotiated fees.

     The Company derives income in many other ways, including the
planning and placement in media of advertising produced by
unrelated advertising agencies; the maintenance of specialized
media placement facilities; the creation and publication of
brochures, billboards, point of sale materials and direct
marketing pieces for clients; the planning and carrying out of
specialized marketing research; managing special events at which
clients' products are featured; and designing and carrying out
interactive programs for special uses.

     The five clients of the Company that made the largest
contribution in 1997 to income from commissions and fees
accounted individually for 2.9% to 11.4% of such income and in
the aggregate accounted for over 31% of such income.  Twenty

clients of the Company accounted for approximately 44% of such
income.  Based on income from commissions and fees, the three
largest clients of the Company are General Motors Corporation,
Unilever and Nestle.  General Motors Corporation first became a
client of one of the Company's agencies in 1916 in the United
States.  Predecessors of several of the Lintas agencies have
supplied advertising services to Unilever since 1893.  The client
relationship with Nestle began in 1940 in Argentina.  While the
loss of the entire business of one of the Company's three largest
clients might have a material adverse effect upon the business of
the Company, the Company believes that it is very unlikely that
the entire business of any of these clients would be lost at the
same time, because it represents several different brands or
divisions of each of these clients in a number of geographical
markets - in each case through more than one of the Company's
agency systems. 

     Representation of a client rarely means that the Company
handles advertising for all brands or product lines of the client
in all geographical locations.  Any client may transfer its
business from an advertising agency within the Company to a
competing agency, and a client may reduce its advertising budget
at any time.  The Company's advertising agencies in many
instances have written contracts with their clients.   

     As is customary in the industry, these contracts provide for
termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually
90 days but sometimes shorter or longer.  In 1997, however, 38%
of income from commissions and fees was derived from clients that
had been associated with one or more of the Company's agencies or
their predecessors for 20 or more years.

Personnel

     As of January 1, 1998, the Company employed approximately
27,100 persons, of whom approximately 10,200 were employed in the
United States.  Because of the personal service character of the
marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of
crucial importance to continuing success.  There is keen
competition for qualified employees.  Interpublic considers its
employee relations to be satisfactory.

     The Company has an active program for training personnel. 
The program includes meetings and seminars throughout the world. 
It also involves training personnel in its offices in New York
and in its larger offices worldwide.

Competition and Other Factors

     The advertising agency and other marketing communications
businesses are highly competitive.  The Company's agencies and
media services must compete with other agencies, both large and

small, and also with other providers of creative or media
services which are not themselves advertising agencies, in order
to maintain existing client relationships and to obtain new
clients.  Competition in the advertising agency business depends
to a large extent on the client's perception of the quality of an
agency's "creative product".  An agency's ability to serve
clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad
geographic basis is also an important competitive consideration. 
On the other hand, because an advertising agency's principal
asset is its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost
unlimited and quite small agencies are, on occasion, able to take
all or some portion of a client's account from a much larger
competitor.

     Moreover, increasing size brings limitations to an agency's
potential for securing new business, because many clients prefer
not to be represented by an agency that represents a competitor. 
Also, clients frequently wish to have different products
represented by different agencies.  The fact that the Company
owns three separate worldwide agency systems and interests in
other advertising agencies gives it additional competitive
opportunities.

     The advertising business is subject to government
regulation, both domestic and foreign.  There has been an
increasing tendency in the United States on the part of
advertisers to resort to the courts, industry and self-regulatory
bodies to challenge comparative advertising on the grounds that
the advertising is false and deceptive.  Through the years, there
has been a continuing expansion of specific rules, prohibitions,
media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements
with respect to the advertising for certain products. 
Representatives within state governments and the federal
government as well as foreign governments continue to initiate
proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to
impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising which, if
successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising
expenditures.

     Some countries are relaxing commercial restrictions as part
of their efforts to attract foreign investment.  However, with
respect to other nations, the international operations of the
Company still remain exposed to certain risks which affect
foreign operations of all kinds, such as local legislation,
monetary devaluation, exchange control restrictions and unstable
political conditions.  In addition, international advertising
agencies are still subject to ownership restrictions in certain
countries because they are considered an integral factor in the
communications process.
PAGE

Statement Regarding Forward Looking Disclosure

     Certain sections of this report, including "Business",
"Competition and Other Factors" and "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
contain forward looking statements concerning future events and
developments that involve risks and uncertainties, including
those associated with the effect of national and regional
economic conditions, the ability of the Company to attract new
clients and retain existing clients, the financial success of
clients of the Company, other developments of clients of the
Company, and developments from changes in the regulatory and
legal environment for advertising agencies around the world.

Year 2000 Compliance

     Many currently installed computer systems and software
products are coded to accept only two-digit entries in the date
code field.  Beginning in the year 2000, these date code fields
will need to accept four-digit entries to distinguish 21st
century dates from 20th century dates.  As a result, computer
systems and/or software used by the Company will need to be
upgraded to comply with such "Year 2000" requirements. Further
discussion of this issue is contained in the section of this
Report entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations". 

Item 2.   Properties

     Most of the advertising operations of the Company are
conducted in leased premises, and its physical property consists
primarily of leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and
equipment.  These facilities are located in various cities in
which the Company does business throughout the world.  However,
subsidiaries of the Company own office buildings in Louisville,
Kentucky; Garden City, New York; Blair, Nebraska; Westport,
Connecticut; Warren, Michigan; Frankfurt, Germany; Sao Paulo,
Brazil; Lima, Peru; Mexico City, Mexico; Santiago, Chile ; and
Brussels, Belgium and own office condominiums in Buenos Aires,
Argentina; Bogota, Colombia; Manila, the Philippines; in England,
subsidiaries of the Company own office buildings in London,
Manchester, Birmingham and Stoke-on-Trent.

     The Company's ownership of the office building in Frankfurt
is subject to three mortgages which became effective on or about
February 1993.  These mortgages terminate at different dates,
with the last to expire in February 2003.  Reference is made to
Note 10: Long-Term Debt - of the Notes to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements in the Company's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997, which Note is
hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

     Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject
to any pending material legal proceedings.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     Not applicable.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

     There follows the information disclosed in accordance with
Item 401 of Regulation S-K of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "Commission") as required by Item 10 of Form 10-K
with respect to executive officers of the Registrant.

Name                     Age             Office

Philip H. Geier, Jr. (1)  63  Chairman of the Board, President
                              and Chief Executive Officer

Eugene P. Beard (1)       62  Vice Chairman-Finance and
                              Operations, Chief Financial Officer

Nicholas J. Camera        51  Vice President, Secretary and
                              General Counsel

John J. Dooner, Jr. (1)   49  Chairman of McCann-Erickson
                              WorldGroup, Inc.

C. Kent Kroeber           59  Senior Vice President-Human
                              Resources

Barry R. Linsky           56  Senior Vice President-Planning
                              and Business Development

Frank B. Lowe (1)         56  Chairman of The Lowe Group 

Martin F. Puris (1)       59  Chairman, Chief Executive Officer
                              and Chief Creative Officer of
                              Ammirati Puris Lintas Worldwide

Joseph M. Studley         45  Vice President and Controller

Thomas J. Volpe           62  Senior Vice President-Financial
                              Operations


(1)  Also a Director

     There is no family relationship among any of the executive
officers.

     The employment histories for the past five years of Messrs.
Geier, Beard, Dooner, Puris and Lowe are incorporated by
reference to the Proxy Statement for Interpublic's 1998 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

     Mr. Camera joined Interpublic on May 17, 1993.  He was
elected Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant
Secretary on June 1, 1994 and Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary on December 15, 1995.

     Mr. Kroeber joined Interpublic in January 1966 as Manager of
Compensation and Training.  He was elected Vice President in 1970
and Senior Vice President in May 1980.

     Mr. Linsky joined Interpublic in January, 1991 when he was
elected Senior Vice President-Planning and Business Development. 
Prior to that time, he was Executive Vice President, Account
Management of Lowe & Partners, Inc.  Mr. Linsky was elected to
that position in July, 1980, when the corporation was known as
The Marschalk Company and was a subsidiary of Interpublic.

     Mr. Studley was elected as Vice President and Controller of
Interpublic effective as of April 1, 1994, formerly he was Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of E.C. Television, a
division of Interpublic, since January 1, 1990.  He was a Vice
President of Lintas New York, a division of one of Interpublic's
subsidiaries, from August 1, 1987 until December 31, 1989.

     Mr. Volpe joined Interpublic on March 3, 1986.  He was
appointed Senior Vice President-Financial Operations on March 18,
1986.  He served as Treasurer from January 1, 1987 through May
17, 1988 and the Treasurer's office continues to report to him. 
He was Vice President and Treasurer of Colgate-Palmolive Company
from February 1981 to February 1986 and Assistant Corporate
Controller prior thereto.



                             PART II


Item 5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters                  

     The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended

December 31, 1997.  See Note 12: Results by Quarter (Unaudited),
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
information under the heading Transfer Agent and Registrar for
Common Stock. 

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

     The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997 under the heading Selected Financial Data for
Five Years.

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations

     The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997 under the heading Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
          Risk

     The response to this Item is incorporated by reference to
the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997 under the heading Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The response to this Item is incorporated in part by
reference to the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for
the year ended December 31, 1997 under the headings Financial
Statements and Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Reference is also made to the Financial Statement Schedule listed
under Item 14(a) of this Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
          Accounting and Financial Disclosure

     Not applicable.



                            PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 1998 Annual

Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement"), to be filed not
later than 120 days after the end of the 1997 calendar year,
except for the description of Interpublic's Executive Officers
which appears in Part I of this Report on Form 10-K under the
heading "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the Proxy Statement.  Such incorporation by
reference shall not be deemed to incorporate specifically by
reference the information referred to in Item 402(a)(8) of
Regulation S-K.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the Proxy Statement.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

     The information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference to the Proxy Statement.  Such incorporation by
reference shall not be deemed to incorporate specifically by
reference the information referred to in Item 402(a)(8) of
Regulation S-K.



                             PART IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
          Form 8-K

     (a)  Listed below are all financial statements, financial
statement schedules and exhibits filed as part of this Report on
Form 10-K.

          1.   Financial Statements:

               See the Index to Financial Statements on page F-1.

          2.   Financial Statement Schedules:

               See the Index to Financial Statement Schedule on
               page F-1.

PAGE

          3.   Exhibits:

     (Numbers used are the numbers assigned in Item 601 of
Regulation S-K and the EDGAR Filer Manual.  An additional copy of
this exhibit index immediately precedes the exhibits filed with
this Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits transmitted to the
Commission as part of the electronic filing of the Report.)

Exhibit No.    Description


3    (i)  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
          Registrant, as amended is incorporated by reference to
          its Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
          1997. See Commission file number 1-6686.

    (ii)  The By-Laws of the Registrant, amended as of February
          19, 1991, are incorporated by reference to its Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.  See
          Commission file number 1-6686.

4    Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders.

     (i)  Indenture, dated as of September 16, 1997 between
          Interpublic and The Bank of New York is incorporated by
          reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for
          the quarter ended September 30, 1997.  See Commission
          file number 1-6686.

     (ii) The Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan as adopted on
          July 18, 1989 is incorporated by reference to
          Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated
          August 1, 1989 (No. 00017904) and, as amended, by
          reference to Registrant's Registration Statement on
          Form 8 dated October 3, 1989 (No. 00106686).

10   Material Contracts.

     (a)  Purchase Agreement, dated September 10, 1997, among The
          Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ("Interpublic"),
          Morgan Stanley & Co., Incorporated, Goldman Sachs and
          Co. and SBC Warburg Dillon Read Inc. is incorporated by
          reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for
          the quarter ended September 30, 1997.  See Commission
          file number 1-6686.

     (b)  Employment, Consultancy and other Compensatory
          Arrangements with Management.

          Employment and Consultancy Agreements and any
          amendments or supplements thereto and other
PAGE

          compensatory arrangements filed with the Registrant's
          Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31,
          1980 through December 31, 1996 inclusive, or filed with
          the Registrant's Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods
          ended March 31, 1997, June 30, 1997 and September 30,
          1997 are incorporated by reference in this Report on
          Form 10-K.  See Commission file number 1-6686.  Listed
          below are agreements or amendments to agreements
          between the Registrant and its executive officers which
          remain in effect on and after the date hereof or were
          executed during the year ended December 31, 1997 and
          thereafter, unless previously submitted, which are
          filed as exhibits to this Report on Form 10-K.

          (i)  Philip H. Geier, Jr.

               Supplemental Agreement dated as of March 1, 1998
               to an Employment Agreement dated as of September
               1, 1997 between Interpublic and Philip H. Geier,
               Jr.
               
         (ii)  Frank Lowe

               Supplemental Agreement dated as of March 1, 1998
               to an Employment Agreement dated as of January, 1,
               1996 between Interpublic and Frank Lowe.
               
     (c)  Executive Compensation Plans.
         
          (i)  Trust Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1990 between
               The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., Lintas
               Campbell-Ewald Company, McCann-Erickson USA, Inc.,
               McCann-Erickson Marketing, Inc., Lintas, Inc. and
               Chemical Bank, as Trustee, is incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

         (ii)  The Stock Option Plan (1988) and the Achievement
               Stock Award Plan of the Registrant are
               incorporated by reference to Appendices C and D of
               the Prospectus dated May 4, 1989 forming part of
               its Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No.
               33-28143).

        (iii)  The Management Incentive Compensation Plan of the
               Registrant is incorporated by reference to the
               Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
               ended June 30, 1995.  See Commission file number
               1-6686.

         (iv)  The 1986 Stock Incentive Plan of the Registrant is
               incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1993.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

          (v)  The 1986 United Kingdom Stock Option Plan of the
               Registrant is incorporated by reference to
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1992.  See Commission file
               number 1-6686.

         (vi)  The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1985) of the
               Registrant, as amended, is incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

        (vii)  The Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the
               Registrant is incorporated by reference to
               Appendix A of the Prospectus dated December 12,
               1988 forming part of its Registration Statement on
               Form S-8 (No. 33-25555).

       (viii)  Resolution of the Board of Directors adopted on
               February 16, 1993, amending the Long-Term
               Performance Incentive Plan is incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

         (ix)  Resolution of the Board of Directors adopted on
               May 16, 1989 amending the Long-Term Performance
               Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference to
               Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the year
               ended December 31, 1989.  See Commission file
               number 1-6686.

         (x)   The 1996 Stock Incentive Plan of the Registrant is
               incorporated by reference to the Registrant's
               Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
               1996.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

         (xi)  The 1997 Performance Incentive Plan of the
               Registrant is incorporated by reference to the
               Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
               ended June 30, 1997.  See Commission file number
               1-6686.

PAGE

     (d)  Loan Agreements.  

         (i)   Amendment No. 6, dated as of August 28, 1997 to a
               Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 1992
               and effective as of December 30, 1992 between
               Interpublic and The Bank of New York.

        (ii)   Amendment No. 7, dated as of August 26, 1997 to a
               Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 1992
               and effective as of December 23, 1992 between
               Interpublic and The First National Bank of
               Chicago. 

       (iii)   Amendment No. 6, dated as of October 1, 1997 to a
               Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 1992
               and effective as of December 16, 1992 between
               Interpublic and The Fuji Bank, Limited.

        (iv)   Note dated as of December 16, 1992 between
               Interpublic and The Fuji Bank, Limited.

         (v)   Other Loan and Guaranty Agreements filed with the
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               years ended December 31, 1988 and December 31,
               1986 are incorporated by reference in this Report
               on Form 10-K.  Other Credit Agreements, amendments
               to various Credit Agreements, Supplemental
               Agreements, Termination Agreements, Loan
               Agreements, Note Purchase Agreements, Guarantees
               and Intercreditor Agreements filed with the
               Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the years
               ended December 31, 1989 through December 31, 1996,
               inclusive and filed with Registrant's Reports on
               Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 1997,
               June 30, 1997 and September 30, 1997 are
               incorporated by reference into this Report on Form
               10-K.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

     (e)  Leases.

          Material leases of premises are incorporated by
          reference to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
          10-K for the years ended December 31, 1980 and December
          31, 1988.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

     (f)  Acquisition Agreement for Purchase of Real Estate.

          (i)  Acquisition Agreement (in German) between
               Treuhandelsgesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft & Co.
               Grundbesitz OHG and McCann-Erickson Deutschland
PAGE

               GmbH & Co. Management Property KG
               ("McCann-Erickson Deutschland") and the English
               translation of the Acquisition Agreement are
               incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1992.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

     (g)  Mortgage Agreements and Encumbrances.

          (i)  Summaries In German and English of Mortgage
               Agreements between McCann-Erickson Deutschland and
               Frankfurter Hypothekenbank Aktiengesellschaft
               ("Frankfurter Hypothekenbank"), Mortgage
               Agreement, dated January 22, 1993, between
               McCann-Erickson Deutschland and Frankfurter
               Hypothekenbank, Mortgage Agreement, dated January
               22, 1993, between McCann-Erickson Deutschland and
               Hypothekenbank are incorporated by reference to
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1993.  See Commission file
               number 1-6686.  Summaries In German and English of
               Mortgage Agreement, between McCann-Erickson
               Deutschland and Frankfurter Sparkasse and Mortgage
               Agreement, dated January 7, 1993, between 
               McCann-Erickson Deutschland and Frankfurter
               Sparkasse are incorporated by reference to
               Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1992.  See Commission file
               number 1-6686.

         (ii)  Summaries In German and English of Documents
               Creating Encumbrances In Favor of Frankfurter
               Hypothekenbank and Frankfurter Sparkasse In
               Connection With the Aforementioned Mortgage
               Agreements, Encumbrance, dated January 15, 1993,
               In Favor Of Frankfurter Hypothekenbank, and
               Encumbrance, dated January 15, 1993, In Favor of
               Frankfurter Sparkasse are incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.

        (iii)  Loan Agreement (in English and German), dated
               January 29, 1993 between Lintas Deutschland GmbH
               and McCann-Erickson Deutschland is incorporated by
               reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
               Commission file number 1-6686.
PAGE

11   Computation of Earnings Per Share.

13   This Exhibit includes: (a) those portions of the Annual
     Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997
     which are included therein under the following headings:
     Financial Highlights; Management's Discussion and Analysis
     of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations;
     Consolidated Balance Sheet; Consolidated Statement of
     Income; Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows; Consolidated
     Statement of Stockholders' Equity; Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements (the aforementioned consolidated
     financial statements together with the Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements hereinafter shall be referred to as the
     "Consolidated Financial Statements"); Report of Independent
     Accountants; Selected Financial Data For Five Years; Report
     of Management; and Stockholders' Information; and (b)
     Appendix to Exhibit 13.

21   Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23   Consent of Independent Accountants.

24   Power of Attorney to sign Form 10-K and resolution of Board
     of Directors re Power of Attorney.

27   Financial Data Schedules

99   No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended
     December 31, 1997.
PAGE

                            SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.

                         THE INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COMPANIES, INC.
                                       (Registrant)


March 26, 1998                BY: Philip H. Geier, Jr.            
                                  Philip H. Geier, Jr.,
                                  Chairman of the Board,
                                  President and Chief
                                  Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

     Name                          Title                    Date 


Philip H. Geier, Jr.  Chairman of the Board,       March 26, 1998
Philip H. Geier, Jr.  President and Chief Executive
                      Officer (Principal Executive 
                      Officer) and Director

Eugene P. Beard       Vice Chairman                March 26, 1998
Eugene P. Beard       -Finance and Operations,
                      Chief Financial Officer,
                      (Principal Financial
                      Officer) and Director

Frank J. Borelli      Director                     March 26, 1998
Frank J. Borelli

Reginald K. Brack     Director                     March 26, 1998
Reginald K. Brack
     
Jill M. Considine     Director                     March 26, 1998
Jill M. Considine
                                                       
John J. Dooner, Jr.   Director                     March 26, 1998
John J. Dooner, Jr.

Frank B. Lowe         Director                     March 26, 1998
Frank B. Lowe                      

PAGE

Leif H. Olsen         Director                     March 26, 1998
Leif H. Olsen

Martin F. Puris       Director                     March 26, 1998
Martin F. Puris  

Allen Questrom        Director                     March 26, 1998
Allen Questrom       

J. Phillip Samper     Director                     March 26, 1998
J. Phillip Samper
     
Joseph M. Studley     Vice President and           March 26, 1998
Joseph M. Studley     Controller (Principal
                      Accounting Officer)                        



By Philip H. Geier, Jr.
   Philip H. Geier, Jr.
   Attorney-in-fact


PAGE

                    INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


The Financial Statements appearing under the headings:  Financial
Highlights, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations, Consolidated Financial
Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Report of
Independent Accountants, Selected Financial Data for Five Years
and Report of Management accompanying the Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997, together with
the report thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP dated February 20,
1998 are incorporated by reference in this report on Form 10-K. 
With the exception of the aforementioned information and the
information incorporated in Items 5, 6 and 7, no other data
appearing in the Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997 is deemed to be filed as part of this report on
Form 10-K.

The following financial statement schedules should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements in such Annual Report
to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997.  Financial
statement schedules not included in this report on Form 10-K have
been omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the financial statements or the notes
thereto.

Separate financial statements for the companies which are 50% or
less owned and accounted for by the equity method have been
omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single
subsidiary, they do not constitute a significant subsidiary.


               INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE            

                                                            Page
Report of Independent Accountants on 
     Financial Statement Schedules                          F-2

Consent of Independent Accountants                          F-2

Financial Statement Schedules Required to be filed by
     Item 8 of this form:

    VIII    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts               F-3


                                  F-1 

PAGE

                REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                 ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors of
The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in
our report dated February 20, 1998 appearing in the 1997 Annual
Report to Stockholders of The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.
(which report and consolidated financial statements are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also
included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in
Item 14 (a) of this Form 10-K.  In our opinion, this Financial
Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.

PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
New York, New York
February 20, 1998

                 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements on Form S-8 of The Interpublic Group of
Companies, Inc. (the "Company"), of our report dated February 20,
1998, appearing in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders which is
incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Registration
Statements No. 2-79071; No. 2-43811; No. 2-56269; No. 2-61346;
No. 2-64338; No. 2-67560; No. 2-72093; No. 2-88165; No. 2-90878,
No. 2-97440 and No. 33-28143, relating variously to the Stock Option
Plan (1971), the Stock Option Plan (1981), the Stock Option Plan
(1988) and the Achievement Stock Award Plan of the Company;
Registration Statements No. 2-53544; No. 2-91564, No. 2-98324,
No. 33-22008, No. 33-64062 and No. 33-61371, relating variously to
the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1975), the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (1985) and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of the Company
(1995); Registration Statements No. 33-20291 and No. 33-2830
relating to the Management Incentive Compensation Plan of the
Company; Registration Statements No. 33-5352, No. 33-21605, 
No. 333-4747 and No. 333-23603 relating to the 1986 Stock Incentive
Plan, the 1986 United Kingdom Stock Option Plan and the 1996 Stock
Incentive Plan, of the Company; Registration Statements No. 33-10087
and No. 33-25555 relating to the Long-Term Performance Incentive
Plan of the Company; Registration Statement No. 333-28029 relating
to The Interpublic Outside Directors' Stock Incentive Plan of the
Company; and Registration Statement No. 33-42675 relating to the
1997 Performance Incentive Plan of the Company.  We hereby consent
to the incorporation by reference in the Prospectuses constituting
part of the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-22899, No.
333-42243, No. 333-42905, and No. 333-45569) of The Interpublic

Group of Companies, Inc. of our report dated February 20, 1998
appearing in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders which is
incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We also consent to
the incorporation by reference of our report on the Financial
Statement Schedule, which appears above.

PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
New York, New York
March 26, 1998
                                 F-2
PAGE


                                   F-3
PAGE

                         INDEX TO DOCUMENTS



Exhibit No.   Description

3    (i) The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
         Registrant, as amended is incorporated by reference to
         its Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
         1997.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

    (ii) The By-Laws of the Registrant, amended as of February
         19, 1991, are incorporated by reference to its Report
         on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.  See
         Commission file number 1-6686.

4        Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders.

     (i) Indenture, dated as of September 16, 1997 between
         Interpublic and The Bank of New York is incorporated by
         reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for
         the quarter ended September 30, 1997.  See Commission
         file number 1-6686.

    (ii) The Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan as adopted on
         July 18, 1989 is incorporated by reference to
         Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated
         August 1, 1989 (No. 00017904) and, as amended, by
         reference to Registrant's Registration Statement on
         Form 8 dated October 3, 1989 (No. 00106686).

10  Material Contracts.

 (a)     Purchase Agreement, dated September 10, 1997, among The
         Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ("Interpublic"),
         Morgan Stanley & Co., Incorporated, Goldman Sachs and
         Co. and SBC Warburg Dillon Read Inc. is incorporated by
         reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for
         the quarter ended September 30, 1997.  See Commission
         file number 1-6686.

 (b)     Employment, Consultancy and other Compensatory
         Arrangements with Management.

    Employment and Consultancy Agreements and any
    amendments or supplements thereto and other
    compensatory arrangements filed with the Registrant's
    Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31,
    1980 through December 31, 1996, inclusive, or filed
    with the Registrant's Reports on Form 10-Q for the



    periods ended March 31, 1997, June 30, 1997 and
    September 30, 1997 are incorporated by reference in
    this Report on Form 10-K.  See Commission file number
    1-6686.  Listed below are agreements or amendments to 
    agreements between the Registrant and its executive
    officers which remain in effect on and after the date
    hereof or were executed during the year ended December
    31, 1997 and thereafter, unless previously submitted,
    which are filed as exhibits to this Report on Form 10-K.

    (i)  Philip H. Geier, Jr.

         Supplemental Agreement dated as of March 1, 1998
         to an Employment Agreement dated as of September
         1, 1997 between Interpublic and Philip H. Geier,
         Jr.
 
     (ii)     Frank Lowe
         Supplemental Agreement dated as of March 1, 1998
         to an Employment Agreement dated as of January 1,
         1996 between Interpublic and Frank Lowe.
 
 (c)     Executive Compensation Plans.
     
      (i)     Trust Agreement, dated as of June 1, 1990 between
              The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., Lintas
              Campbell-Ewald Company, McCann-Erickson USA, Inc.,
              McCann-Erickson Marketing, Inc., Lintas, Inc. and
              Chemical Bank, as Trustee, is incorporated by
              reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.  See
              Commission file number 1-6686.

     (ii)     The Stock Option Plan (1988) and the Achievement
              Stock Award Plan of the Registrant are
              incorporated by reference to Appendices C and D of
              the Prospectus dated May 4, 1989 forming part of
              its Registration Statement on Form S-8 
         (No. 33-28143).

    (iii)     The Management Incentive Compensation Plan of the
              Registrant is incorporated by reference to the
              Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
              ended June 30, 1995.  See Commission file number
              1-6686.

     (iv)     The 1986 Stock Incentive Plan of the Registrant is
              incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
              31, 1993.  See Commission file number 1-6686.
PAGE

      (v)     The 1986 United Kingdom Stock Option Plan of the
              Registrant is incorporated by reference to
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1992.  See Commission file
              number 1-6686.

     (vi)     The Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1985) of the
              Registrant, as amended, is incorporated by
              reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.  See
              Commission file number 1-6686.

    (vii)     The Long-Term Performance Incentive Plan of the
              Registrant is incorporated by reference to
              Appendix A of the Prospectus dated December 12,
              1988 forming part of its Registration Statement on
              Form S-8 (No. 33-25555).

   (viii)     Resolution of the Board of Directors adopted on
              February 16, 1993, amending the Long-Term
              Performance Incentive Plan is incorporated by
              reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
              Commission file number 1-6686.

     (ix)     Resolution of the Board of Directors adopted on
              May 16, 1989 amending the Long-Term Performance
              Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference to
              Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the year
              ended December 31, 1989.  See Commission file
              number 1-6686.

     (x) The 1996 Stock Incentive Plan of the Registrant is
         incorporated by reference to the Registrant's
         Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
         1996.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

     (xi)     The 1997 Performance Incentive Plan of the
              Registrant is incorporated by reference to the
              Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
              ended June 30, 1997.  See Commission file number
              1-6686.

 (d)     Loan Agreements.
 
     (i) Amendment No. 6, dated as of August 28, 1997 to a
         Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 1992
         and effective as of December 30, 1992 between
         Interpublic and The Bank of New York.

PAGE

    (ii) Amendment No. 7, dated as of August 26, 1997 to a
         Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 1992
         and effective as of December 23, 1992 between
         Interpublic and The First National Bank of
         Chicago. 

   (iii) Amendment No. 6, dated as of October 1, 1997 to a
         Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 1992
         and effective as of December 16, 1992 between
         Interpublic and The Fuji Bank, Limited.


    (iv) Note dated as of December 16, 1992 between
         Interpublic and The Fuji Bank, Limited.

     (v) Other Loan and Guaranty Agreements filed with
              the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the years ended December 31, 1988 and December 31,
              1986 are incorporated by reference in this Report
              on Form 10-K.  Other Credit Agreements, amendments
              to various Credit Agreements, Supplemental
              Agreements, Termination Agreements, Loan 
         Agreements, Note Purchase Agreements, Guarantees
         and Intercreditor Agreements filed with the
         Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the years
         ended December 31, 1989 through December 31, 1996,
         inclusive and filed with Registrant's Reports on
         Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 1997,
         June 30, 1997 and September 30, 1997 are
         incorporated by reference into this Report on Form
         10-K. See Commission file number 1-6686.

 (e)     Leases.

    Material leases of premises are incorporated by
    reference to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form
    10-K for the years ended December 31, 1980 and December
    31, 1988.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

 (f)     Acquisition Agreement for Purchase of Real Estate.

    Acquisition Agreement (in German) between
    Treuhandelsgesellschaft Aktiengesellschaft & Co.
    Grundbesitz OHG and McCann-Erickson Deutschland GmbH &
    Co. Management Property KG ("McCann-Erickson
    Deutschland") and the English translation of the
    Acquisition Agreement are incorporated by reference to
    Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
    ended December 31, 1992.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

PAGE

 (g)     Mortgage Agreements and Encumbrances.

      (i)     Summaries In German and English of Mortgage
              Agreements between McCann-Erickson Deutschland and
              Frankfurter Hypothekenbank Aktiengesellschaft
              ("Frankfurter Hypothekenbank"), Mortgage
         Agreement, dated January 22, 1993, between
         McCann-Erickson Deutschland and Frankfurter
         Hypothekenbank, Mortgage Agreement, dated January
         22, 1993, between McCann-Erickson Deutschland and
         Hypothekenbank are incorporated by reference to
         Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
         year ended December 31, 1993. See Commission file
         number 1-6686.  Summaries In German and English of
         Mortgage Agreement, between McCann-Erickson
         Deutschland and Frankfurter Sparkasse and Mortgage
         Agreement, dated January 7, 1993, between McCann-Erickson 
         Deutschland and Frankfurter Sparkasse are
         incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
         31, 1992.  See Commission file number 1-6686.

     (ii)     Summaries In German and English of Documents
              Creating Encumbrances In Favor of Frankfurter
              Hypothekenbank and Frankfurter Sparkasse In
              Connection With the Aforementioned Mortgage
              Agreements, Encumbrance, dated January 15, 1993,
              In Favor Of Frankfurter Hypothekenbank, and
              Encumbrance, dated January 15, 1993, In Favor of
              Frankfurter Sparkasse are incorporated by
              reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
              Commission file number 1-6686.

    (iii)     Loan Agreement (in English and German), dated
              January 29, 1993 between Lintas Deutschland GmbH
              and McCann-Erickson Deutschland is incorporated by
              reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.  See
              Commission file number 1-6686.

11  Computation of Earnings Per Share.

13  This Exhibit includes: (a) those portions of the Annual
    Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997
    which are included therein under the following headings:
    Financial Highlights; Management's Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations;
    Consolidated Balance Sheet; Consolidated Statement of
    Income; Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows; Consolidated
    Statement of Stockholders' Equity; Notes to Consolidated

 Financial Statements (the aforementioned consolidated
 financial Statements together with the Notes to Consolidated
 Financial Statements hereinafter shall be referred to as the
 "Consolidated Financial Statements"); Report of Independent
 Accountants; Selected Financial Data For Five Years; Report
 of Management; and Stockholders' Information; and (b)
 Appendix to Exhibit 13.

21  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23  Consent of Independent Accountants.

24  Power of Attorney to sign Form 10-K and resolution of Board
    of Directors re Power of Attorney.

27  Financial Data Schedules

99  No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended
    December 31, 1997.



