
10-K
10-K



     AS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION ON MARCH 19, 1999
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
 
  /X/    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
         FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
 
                                       OR
 
  / /    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
        FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM               TO               .
 
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 33-41102
                            ------------------------
 
                           SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES
 
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (408) 654-7282
                            ------------------------
 
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
 

 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_  No ___
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /
 
    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based upon the closing price of its common stock on January 31,
1999, on the Nasdaq National Market was $390,300,699.
 
    At January 31, 1999, 20,746,881 shares of the registrant's common stock (no
par value) were outstanding.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 

 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
         This report contains a total of 138 pages, including exhibits.
                        The Exhibit Index is on page 71.

                                

 

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
    Silicon Valley Bancshares (the "Company") is a California corporation and
bank holding company that was incorporated on April 23, 1982. The Company's
principal subsidiary is Silicon Valley Bank (the "Bank"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company that was organized and incorporated as a California
banking corporation on October 17, 1983. The Bank is a member of the Federal
Reserve System and its deposits are insured by the Bank Insurance Fund (the
"BIF"), as administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
"FDIC"). SVB Leasing Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, was
incorporated on November 14, 1984 as a California corporation, and has remained
inactive since incorporation. Additionally, during the second quarter of 1998
the Company issued $40.0 million in cumulative trust preferred securities
through a newly formed special-purpose trust (SVB Capital I).
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
    The Bank serves emerging growth and middle-market companies in targeted
niches, focusing on the technology and life sciences industries, while also
identifying and capitalizing on opportunities to serve companies in other
industries whose financial services needs are underserved. The Bank serves
clients across the nation through branches and/or loan offices located in
Arizona, California, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts,
Oregon, Texas, and Washington. Since 1994, the Bank has refined a niche strategy
based on identifying and capitalizing on market niches whose financial services
needs are underserved. By dedicating resources within these niches, the Bank
seeks to provide the highest level of expertise and quality service to its
clients.
 
    TECHNOLOGY AND LIFE SCIENCES NICHE
 
    The Bank's technology and life sciences niche focuses on serving companies
within a variety of technology and life sciences industries and markets across
the nation. These companies are generally liquid, net providers of funds to the
Bank, and often have low utilization of their credit facilities. Lending to this
niche is typically related to working capital lines of credit, equipment
financing, asset acquisition loans, and bridge financing. The following is an
overview of the Bank's technology and life sciences niche practices.
 
    The Communications and Online Services practice serves companies in the
networking, telecommunications and online services industries. The networking
industry includes companies supplying the equipment and services that facilitate
distributed enterprise networks such as local and wide area networks. The
telecommunications industry encompasses the suppliers of equipment and services
to companies and consumers for the transmission of voice, data and video.
Companies included in the online services industry supply access, content,
services, and support to individuals and businesses participating on the
Internet, or in other online activities.
 
    The Computers and Peripherals practice focuses on companies that are engaged
in the support and manufacturing of computers, electronic components and related
peripheral products. Specific markets these companies serve include personal
computers, specialty computer systems, add-in boards, printers, storage devices,
networking equipment, and contract manufacturing.
 
    The Semiconductors practice serves companies involved in the design,
manufacturing and marketing of integrated circuits. This includes companies
involved in the manufacturing of semiconductor production equipment and
semiconductors, testing and related services, electronic parts wholesaling,
computer-aided design, and computer-aided manufacturing.
 
    The Software practice consists largely of companies specializing in the
design of integrated computer systems, computer programming services, and the
development and marketing of commercial and industrial applications as well as
prepackaged software.
 
    The Life Sciences practices serve companies in the biotechnology, medical
devices and health care services industries. The biotechnology industry includes
companies involved in research and development of therapeutics and diagnostics
for the medical and pharmaceuticals industries. The medical devices industry
encompasses companies involved in the design, manufacturing and distribution of
surgical instruments and
 

medical equipment. Companies included in the health care services industry deal
with patients, either in a primary care or secondary care role.
 
    In addition to the industry-related practices discussed above, the Bank has
three other practices that provide commercial lending and other financial
products and services to clients associated with the technology and life
sciences industries. The Pacific Rim practice serves technology and life
sciences companies that receive equity funding from Asian (or Asian-based)
venture capital sources, while the Venture Capital practice provides venture
capital firms with financing and other specialized products and services.
Lastly, the Emerging Technologies practice, which was established in 1997,
primarily targets non-venture-backed technology financial relationships in
Northern California, with a primary focus on the software industry.
 
    SPECIAL INDUSTRY NICHES
 
    The Bank has always served a variety of commercial enterprises unrelated to
its technology and life sciences niche. These clients are served through several
special industry niche practices which generally focus their lending in specific
regions throughout the U.S. The Bank's niche strategy evolved from clients
unrelated to the technology and life sciences niche, and the Bank continues to
follow this strategy by identifying industries whose financial services needs
are underserved. The following is a brief summary of the Bank's current special
industry niche practices.
 
    The Real Estate practice is composed of real estate construction and term
loans whose primary source of repayment is cash flow or sales proceeds from real
property collateral. The focus of the Real Estate practice consists of
construction loans for residential and commercial projects, and construction and
mini-permanent loans on retail, industrial and office projects.
 
    The Premium Wineries practice focuses on wineries, which produce select or
exclusive vintages of up to 150,000 cases annually. Lending in this niche
consists of both short-term inventory loans and term loans related to vineyard
acquisition and development, equipment financing and cooperage.
 
    The Entertainment practice serves the independent sector of the
entertainment industry. This practice provides production loans, lines of credit
and term loans for library and other acquisitions.
 
    In addition to serving the niches listed above, the Bank serves a broad
array of industries through its Diversified Industries practice in Northern
California. This practice allows the Bank to continue to evaluate potential
niches by initially identifying and serving a few clients in related industries
or markets.
 
    SPECIALIZED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
 
    The Bank has several divisions that offer specialized lending products and
other financial products and services to clients in the technology and life
sciences niche as well as the special industry niches discussed above, enabling
the Bank to better serve its clients' wide range of financial services needs.
These divisions include: International, Cash Management, Treasury, Real Estate,
Factoring, Commercial Finance, Corporate Finance, and Executive Banking.
 
    The International Division provides foreign exchange, import and export
letters of credit, documentary collections, and a number of other trade finance
products and services to the Bank's clients, helping them to successfully
operate in international markets. The Bank has been granted delegated authority
by the Export-Import Bank of the U.S. ("EX-IM") and the California Export
Finance Office ("CEFO"), enabling the Bank to provide its clients with EX-IM and
CEFO guaranteed working capital loans to finance foreign receivables and
inventory intended for export, as well as provide purchase order financing.
 
    The Cash Management Division provides services to help the Bank's customers
manage cash collections and disbursements efficiently and cost effectively.
Services provided include wholesale lockbox services, electronic information
reporting, controlled disbursement services, and a variety of other services
designed to meet the banking and cash management needs of the Bank's clients.
 
    Through the Treasury Division, the Bank provides investment services to
assist its clients with managing short-term investments. Investment securities
purchased on behalf of clients include U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency
securities, commercial paper, Eurodollar deposits, and bankers' acceptances.
 

    In addition to being a special industry niche, real estate lending is also a
product offered to the Bank's clients. This product is typically offered to
finance commercial real estate owned and operated by the Bank's client
companies.
 
    Both the Factoring Division and the Commercial Finance Division offer
alternative financing to client companies which do not qualify for the more
traditional financing offered through the Bank's niche practices. The Factoring
Division generally serves the Bank's emerging growth client base by purchasing
clients' accounts receivable at a discount, making operating funds immediately
available to the clients, and then managing the collection of these receivables.
The Commercial Finance Division assists client companies during periods when
profit performance has been interrupted or where greater flexibility is required
by providing credit facilities that involve frequent monitoring of the
underlying collateral, which generally consists of accounts receivable,
inventory and equipment. To the extent that clients of the Factoring and
Commercial Finance Divisions grow and their financial condition strengthens,
they may thereafter be served through the Bank's niche practices.
 
    The Corporate Finance Division pursues opportunities in leasing, mezzanine
lending and debt placements, targeting bank-eligible investment banking
transactions.
 
    The Executive Banking Division focuses on serving the personal banking needs
of senior executives and owners of the Bank's client companies, partners and
senior executives of venture capital firms, attorneys, accountants, and other
professionals whose businesses are affiliated with the Bank's niches.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    As of December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company and the Bank, in the
aggregate, employed 590, 454 and 384 full-time equivalent personnel,
respectively, consisting of both full-time and permanent part-time employees.
Full-time equivalent is a measurement equivalent to one full-time employee
working a standard day, and is based on the number of hours worked in a given
month. The Company's and the Bank's employees are not represented by any unions
or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Management of the Company and
the Bank believes that, in general, their employee relations are satisfactory.
 
COMPETITION
 
    The banking and financial services business environment in California, as
well as the rest of the U.S., is highly and increasingly competitive. The Bank
competes for client loans, deposits and other financial products and services
with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, securities and
brokerage companies, mortgage companies, insurance companies, finance companies,
money market and other mutual funds, credit unions, and other non-bank financial
services providers. Many of these competitors are much larger in total assets
and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets and offer a broader
array of financial products and services than the Bank. The increasingly
competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes
in technology and product delivery systems, and the accelerating pace of
consolidation among financial services providers. In order to compete with other
financial services providers, the Bank principally relies upon promotional
activities and industry knowledge in its market areas, personal relationships
with clients and other service providers, referral sources established by
officers, directors and employees, and specialized services tailored to meet the
Bank's clients' needs. In those instances where the Bank is unable to
accommodate a client's needs, the Bank will seek to arrange for those services
to be provided by its network of correspondents and other service providers.
 
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS, GOVERNMENT POLICIES, LEGISLATION, AND REGULATION
 
    The Company's profitability, like that of most other financial institutions,
is primarily dependent on interest rate differentials. In general, the
difference between the interest rates paid by the Bank on interest-bearing
liabilities, such as deposits and other borrowings, and the interest rates
received by the Bank on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to its
clients and securities held in its investment portfolio, comprise the major
portion of the Company's earnings. These rates are highly sensitive to many
factors that are beyond the control of the Company and the Bank, such as
inflation, recession and unemployment, and the impact that future changes in
domestic and foreign economic conditions might have on the Company and the Bank
cannot be predicted.
 

    The Company's business is also influenced by the monetary and fiscal
policies of the federal government and the policies of regulatory agencies,
particularly the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Federal
Reserve Board"). The Federal Reserve Board implements national monetary policies
(with objectives such as curbing inflation and combating recession) through its
open-market operations in U.S. government securities, by adjusting the required
level of reserves for depository institutions subject to its reserve
requirements and by varying the target federal funds and discount rates
applicable to borrowings by depository institutions. The actions of the Federal
Reserve Board in these areas influence the growth of bank loans, investments and
deposits, and also affect interest rates earned on interest-earning assets and
paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The nature and impact on the Company and
the Bank of any future changes in monetary and fiscal policies cannot be
predicted.
 
    From time to time, legislative acts, as well as regulations, are enacted
which have the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting or
expanding permissible activities, or affecting the competitive balance between
banks and other financial services providers. Proposals to change the laws and
regulations governing the operations and taxation of banks, bank holding
companies and other financial institutions are frequently made in the U.S.
Congress, in the state legislatures and by various bank regulatory agencies. The
likelihood of any legislative or regulatory changes and the impact such changes
might have on the Company and the Bank cannot be predicted. See "Item 1.
Business--Supervision and Regulation" for additional discussion on legislative
and regulatory changes.
 
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
 
    Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both
federal and state law. This regulation is intended primarily for the protection
of depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of
shareholders of the Company. Set forth below is a summary description of certain
laws and regulations, which relate to the operations of the Company and the
Bank. The description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its
entirety by reference to the applicable laws and regulations.
 
    In recent years, significant legislative proposals and reforms affecting the
financial services industry have been discussed and evaluated by the U.S.
Congress. Such proposals include, but are not limited to, legislation to revise
the Glass-Steagall Act and the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the
"BHCA"), and to expand permissible activities for banks, principally to
facilitate the convergence of commercial and investment banking. Certain
proposals also have sought to expand insurance activities of banks. It is
unclear whether any of these proposals, or any form of them, will be introduced
in the current U.S. Congress and become law. Consequently, it is not possible to
determine what effect, if any, these and other legislative proposals may have on
the Company and the Bank.
 
    THE COMPANY
 
    The Company, as a registered bank holding company, is subject to regulation
under the BHCA and Regulation Y, which has been adopted thereunder by the
Federal Reserve Board. The Company is required to file with the Federal Reserve
Board quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports, and such additional information
as the Federal Reserve Board may require pursuant to the BHCA and Regulation Y.
The Federal Reserve Board may conduct examinations of the Company and its
subsidiaries.
 
    The Federal Reserve Board may require that the Company terminate an activity
or terminate control of, liquidate or divest certain subsidiaries or affiliates
when the Federal Reserve Board believes the activity or the control of the
subsidiary or affiliate constitutes a significant risk to the financial safety,
soundness or stability of any of the Company's banking subsidiaries. The Federal
Reserve Board also has the authority to regulate provisions of certain bank
holding company debt, including the authority to impose interest rate ceilings
and reserve requirements on such debt.
 
    The Company is required by the Federal Reserve Board to maintain certain
minimum levels of capital, and in addition, under certain circumstances, the
Company must file written notice with, and obtain approval from, the Federal
Reserve Board prior to purchasing or redeeming its equity securities. The
Company may engage "de novo" in permissible non-banking activities as listed in
Regulation Y without the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, provided that
the Company and the Bank are "well capitalized" and that certain other criteria
are met. For purposes of determining the capital levels at which a bank holding
company is considered well capitalized under Regulation Y, the Federal Reserve
Board has adopted a minimum total risk-based capital
 

ratio of 10% on a consolidated basis and a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital
ratio of 6% on a consolidated basis. See "Item 1. Business--Supervision and
Regulation--Capital Standards" and "Item 1. Business-- Supervision and
Regulation--Prompt Corrective Action and Other Enforcement Mechanisms" for
additional discussion of capital ratios.
 
    Under the BHCA and regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board, a bank
holding company and its non-banking subsidiaries are prohibited from requiring
certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit, lease or
sale of property or furnishing of services.
 
    The Company is required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board for the acquisition of more than 5.0% of the outstanding shares of any
class of voting securities, or substantially all of the assets, of any bank or
bank holding company. Prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board is also
required for the merger or consolidation of the Company and another bank holding
company.
 
    The Company is prohibited by the BHCA, except in certain instances
prescribed by statute, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of
more than 5.0% of the outstanding voting shares of any company that is not a
bank or bank holding company and from engaging directly or indirectly in
activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks or
furnishing services to its subsidiaries. However, the Company, subject to the
prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, may engage in, or acquire voting
shares of companies engaged in, activities that are deemed by the Federal
Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling
banks as to be a proper incident thereto.
 
    Under Federal Reserve Board regulations, a bank holding company is required
to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary
banks and may not conduct its operations in an unsafe or unsound manner. In
addition, it is the Federal Reserve Board's policy that in serving as a source
of strength to its subsidiary banks, a bank holding company should stand ready
to use available resources to provide adequate capital funds to its subsidiary
banks during periods of financial stress or adversity and should maintain the
financial flexibility and capital-raising capacity to obtain additional
resources for assisting its subsidiary banks. A bank holding company's failure
to meet its obligations to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary banks
will generally be considered by the Federal Reserve Board to be an unsafe and
unsound banking practice or a violation of the Federal Reserve Board's
regulations or both.
 
    The Company's ability to pay cash dividends is limited by the California
Corporation Code to the greater of (a) the Company's retained earnings, or (b)
the Company's total assets (net of cash dividends declared) less 150% of the
Company's liabilities. In addition to the aforementioned cash dividend
limitations imposed on the Company, there are statutory and regulatory
limitations on the amount of dividends which may be paid to the Company by the
Bank. See "Item 1. Business--Supervision and Regulation--Dividends and Other
Transfers of Funds" for further discussion regarding limitations on the ability
of the Bank to pay dividends to the Company.
 
    The Company is also a bank holding company within the meaning of Section
3700 of the California Financial Code. As such, the Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to periodic examination by, and may be required to file reports
with, the California Department of Financial Institutions.
 
    The Company's securities are registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC") under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the "Exchange Act"). As such, the Company is subject to information reporting,
proxy solicitation, insider trading restrictions, and other requirements and
restrictions as specified in the Exchange Act.
 
    The Company's common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the
symbol "SIVB", and, as such, the Company is subject to the reporting and other
requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market.
 
    THE BANK
 
    The Bank, as a California-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve
System, is subject to primary supervision, periodic examination and regulation
by the Commissioner of the California Department of Financial Institutions (the
"Commissioner") and the Federal Reserve Board. If, as a result of an examination
of the Bank, the Federal Reserve Board should determine that the financial
condition, capital resources, asset quality, management, earnings prospects,
liquidity, sensitivity to market risk, or other aspects of the Bank's operations
are unsatisfactory, or that the Bank is violating or has violated any law or
regulation, various remedies are available to the Federal Reserve Board. Such
remedies include the power to: enjoin "unsafe or
 

unsound" practices, require affirmative action to correct any conditions
resulting from any violation or practice, issue an administrative order that can
be judicially enforced, direct an increase in capital, restrict the growth of
the Bank, assess civil monetary penalties, remove officers and directors, and
ultimately to terminate the Bank's deposit insurance, which, as a
California-chartered bank, would result in a revocation of the Bank's charter.
The Commissioner has many of the same remedial powers.
 
    The deposits of the Bank are insured by the FDIC in the manner and to the
extent provided by law. For this protection, the Bank pays a quarterly statutory
assessment. For additional discussion related to deposit insurance, see "Item 1.
Business--Supervision and Regulation--Premiums for Deposit Insurance." Because
the Bank's deposits are insured by the FDIC, the Bank is also subject to certain
FDIC rules and regulations.
 
    Various requirements and restrictions imposed by state and federal laws and
regulations affect the operations of the Bank. State and federal statutes and
regulations relate to many aspects of the Bank's operations, including, but not
limited to, reserves against deposits, interest rates on deposits and loans,
investments, mergers and acquisitions, borrowings, dividends, and locations of
branch offices. Further, the Bank is required to maintain certain minimum levels
of capital. See "Item 1. Business--Supervision and Regulation--Capital
Standards" for further discussion related to minimum capital guidelines.
 
    DIVIDENDS AND OTHER TRANSFERS OF FUNDS
 
    The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. The Bank
is subject to various statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to
pay dividends to the Company. Under such restrictions, the amount available for
payment of dividends to the Company by the Bank totaled $68.3 million at
December 31, 1998. In addition, the Commissioner and the Federal Reserve Board
have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, depending upon
the Bank's financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute an
unsafe or unsound practice. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data--Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements--Regulatory Matters" for
further discussion on dividend restrictions.
 
    The Federal Reserve Board also has the authority to prohibit the Bank from
engaging in activities that, in the Federal Reserve Board's opinion, constitute
unsafe or unsound practices in conducting its business. It is possible,
depending upon the financial condition of the bank in question and other
factors, that the Federal Reserve Board could assert that the payment of
dividends or other payments might, under some circumstances, be an unsafe or
unsound practice. Further, the Federal Reserve Board has established guidelines
with respect to the maintenance of appropriate levels of capital by banks or
bank holding companies under its jurisdiction. Compliance with the standards set
forth in such guidelines and the restrictions that are, or may be, imposed under
the prompt corrective action provisions of federal law could limit the amount of
dividends which the Bank or the Company may pay. The Commissioner may impose
similar limitations on the conduct of California-chartered banks. See "Item 1.
Business--Supervision and Regulation--Capital Standards" and "Item 1.
Business--Supervision and Regulation--Prompt Corrective Action and Other
Enforcement Mechanisms," for a discussion of these additional restrictions on
capital distributions.
 
    The Bank is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal law on any
extensions of credit to, or the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on
behalf of, the Company or other affiliates, the purchase of, or investments in,
stock or other securities thereof, the taking of such securities as collateral
for loans, and the purchase of assets of the Company or other affiliates. Such
restrictions prevent the Company and such other affiliates from borrowing from
the Bank unless the loans are secured by marketable obligations of designated
amounts. Further, such secured loans and investments by the Bank to, or in, the
Company or to, or in, any other affiliate are limited, individually, to 10.0% of
the Bank's capital and surplus (as defined by federal regulations), and such
secured loans and investments are limited, in the aggregate, to 20.0% of the
Bank's capital and surplus (as defined by federal regulations). California law
also imposes certain restrictions with respect to transactions involving the
Company and other controlling persons of the Bank. Additional restrictions on
transactions with affiliates may be imposed on the Bank under the prompt
corrective action provisions of federal law. See "Item 1. Business--Supervision
and Regulation--Prompt Corrective Action and Other Enforcement Mechanisms" for
related discussion regarding restrictions on transactions with affiliates.
 

    CAPITAL STANDARDS
 
    The Federal Reserve Board has adopted minimum risk-based capital guidelines
intended to provide a measure of capital that reflects the degree of risk
associated with a banking organization's operations for both transactions
reported on the balance sheet as assets, and transactions, such as commitments,
letters of credit and recourse arrangements, which are recorded as off-balance
sheet items. Under these guidelines, dollar amounts of assets and credit
equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are adjusted by one of several
conversion factors and/or risk adjustment percentages.
 
    The federal banking agencies require a minimum ratio of qualifying total
capital to risk-adjusted assets of 8% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to
risk-adjusted assets of 4%. In addition to the risk-based guidelines, federal
banking regulators require banking organizations to maintain a minimum amount of
Tier 1 capital to total quarterly average assets, referred to as the Tier 1
leverage ratio. For a banking organization rated in the highest of the five
categories used by regulators to rate banking organizations, the minimum Tier 1
leverage ratio must be 3%. In addition to these uniform risk-based capital
guidelines and leverage ratio requirements that apply across the industry, the
regulators have the discretion to set individual minimum capital requirements
for specific institutions at rates significantly above the minimum guidelines
and ratios.
 
    The federal banking agencies have adopted a joint agency policy statement
which provides that the adequacy and effectiveness of a bank's interest rate
risk management process and the level of its interest rate exposures are
critical factors in the evaluation of the bank's capital adequacy. A bank with
material weaknesses in its interest rate risk management process or high levels
of interest rate exposure relative to its capital will be directed by the
federal banking agencies to take corrective actions. Such actions may include
recommendations or directions to raise additional capital, strengthen management
expertise, improve management information and measurement systems, reduce levels
of interest rate exposure, or some combination thereof depending upon the
individual financial institution's circumstances.
 
    Financial institutions which have significant amounts of their assets
concentrated in high risk loans or nontraditional banking activities, and who
fail to adequately manage these risks, may be required to set aside capital in
excess of the regulatory minimums. The federal banking agencies have not imposed
any quantitative assessment for determining when these risks are significant,
but have identified these issues as important factors they will review in
assessing capital adequacy.
 
    Future changes in regulations or practices could further reduce the amount
of capital recognized for purposes of capital adequacy. Such changes could
affect the ability of the Company and the Bank to grow and could restrict the
amount of profits, if any, available for the payment of dividends. See "Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data--Note 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements--Regulatory Matters" for the Company's and Bank's capital
ratios as of December 31, 1998.
 
    PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION AND OTHER ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMS
 
    Federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective and other
supervisory action as deemed appropriate on an insured depository institution
and its holding company. Federal laws require each federal banking agency to
take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured depository
institutions, including, but not limited to, those institutions which fall below
one or more of the prescribed minimum required capital ratios. Such laws require
each federal banking agency to promulgate regulations defining the following
five categories in which an insured depository institution will be placed, based
on the level of its capital ratios: well capitalized, adequately capitalized,
undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, and critically
undercapitalized.
 
    The Company's and the Bank's capital ratios were in excess of regulatory
guidelines for a well capitalized depository institution as of December 31,
1998. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-- Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements--Regulatory Matters" for the Company's and
Bank's capital ratios as of December 31, 1998.
 
    A depository institution that, based upon its capital levels, is classified
as well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized may be treated
as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal
banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an
unsafe or unsound condition, or an unsafe or unsound practice, warrants such
treatment. At each successive lower capital category, an insured depository
institution is subject to more restrictions. The federal banking agencies,
 

however, may not treat an institution as critically undercapitalized unless its
capital ratios actually warrant such treatment.
 
    In addition to measures taken under the prompt corrective action provisions,
banking organizations may be subject to potential enforcement actions by the
federal regulators for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their
businesses, or for violation of any law, rule, regulation, condition imposed in
writing by the agency, or term of a written agreement with the agency.
Enforcement actions may include the appointment of a conservator or receiver,
the issuance of a cease and desist order that can be judicially enforced, the
termination of deposit insurance (in the case of a depository institution), the
imposition of civil monetary penalties, the issuance of directives to increase
capital, the issuance of formal and informal agreements, the issuance of removal
and prohibition orders against institution-affiliated parties, and the
enforcement of such actions through injunctions or restraining orders based upon
a judicial determination that the agency would be harmed if such equitable
relief was not granted.
 
    SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS STANDARDS
 
    The federal banking agencies have adopted guidelines to assist in
identifying and addressing potential safety and soundness concerns before
capital becomes impaired. The guidelines set forth operational and managerial
standards relating to: (i) internal controls, information systems and internal
audit systems, (ii) loan documentation, (iii) credit underwriting, (iv) asset
growth, and (v) compensation, fees and benefits. In addition, the federal
banking agencies have more recently adopted safety and soundness guidelines with
respect to asset quality and earnings. The federal banking agencies have also
adopted asset quality guidelines which provide six standards for establishing
and maintaining a system to identify problem assets and prevent those assets
from deteriorating. Under these standards, an insured depository institution
should: (i) conduct periodic asset quality reviews to identify problem assets,
(ii) estimate the inherent losses in problem assets and establish reserves that
are sufficient to absorb estimated losses, (iii) compare problem asset totals to
capital, (iv) take appropriate corrective action to resolve problem assets, (v)
consider the size and potential risks of material asset concentrations, and (vi)
provide periodic asset quality reports with adequate information for management
and the board of directors to assess the level of asset risk. Finally, the
federal banking agencies have adopted earnings guidelines which set forth
standards for evaluating and monitoring earnings and for ensuring that earnings
are sufficient for the maintenance of adequate capital and reserves.
 
    PREMIUMS FOR DEPOSIT INSURANCE
 
    The Bank's deposit accounts are insured by the BIF, as administered by the
FDIC, up to the maximum permitted by law. Insurance of deposits may be
terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the financial institution has engaged
in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue
operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order, or
condition imposed by the FDIC or by the financial institution's primary
regulator.
 
    The FDIC charges an annual assessment for the insurance of deposits, which
as of December 31, 1998, ranged from 0 to 27 basis points per $100 of insured
deposits, based on the risk a particular financial institution poses to its
deposit insurance fund. The risk classification is based on a financial
institution's capital group and supervisory subgroup assignment. At December 31,
1998, the Bank's assessment rate was the statutory minimum assessment of $2,000
per year.
 
    In addition to its normal deposit insurance premium as a member of the BIF,
the Bank pays an amount equal to approximately 1.3 basis points per $100 of
insured deposits toward the retirement of Financing Corporation bonds ("Fico
Bonds") issued in the 1980s to assist in the recovery of the savings and loan
industry. Members of the Savings Association Insurance Fund (the "SAIF"), by
contrast, pay, in addition to their normal deposit insurance premium as members
of the SAIF, approximately 6.4 basis points per $100 of insured deposits toward
the retirement of the Fico Bonds. Under the Economic Growth and Paperwork
Reduction Act (the "Paperwork Reduction Act"), the FDIC is not permitted to
establish SAIF assessment rates that are lower than comparable BIF assessment
rates. Beginning no later than January 1, 2000, the assessment rate paid toward
the retirement of the Fico Bonds will be equal for members of the BIF and the
SAIF. Should the insurance funds be merged before January 1, 2000, the
assessment rate paid by all members of this new fund toward the retirement of
the Fico Bonds would be equal upon the time of merger.
 

    INTERSTATE BANKING AND BRANCHING
 
    The BHCA currently permits bank holding companies from any state to acquire
banks and bank holding companies located in any other state, subject to certain
conditions, including certain nationwide and state-imposed concentration limits.
Banks have the ability, subject to certain restrictions, to acquire by
acquisition or merger branches located outside their home state. The
establishment of new interstate branches is also possible in those states with
laws that expressly permit it. Interstate branches are subject to certain laws
of the states in which they are located. Competition may increase further as
banks branch across state lines and enter new markets.
 
    COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT AND FAIR LENDING DEVELOPMENTS
 
    The Bank is subject to certain fair lending laws and reporting obligations
involving home mortgage lending operations and Community Reinvestment Act
("CRA") activities. The CRA generally requires the federal banking agencies to
evaluate the record of a bank in meeting the credit needs of its local
communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. A bank may be
subject to substantial penalties and corrective measures for a violation of
certain fair lending laws. The federal banking agencies may take compliance with
such laws and CRA obligations into account when regulating and supervising other
activities.
 
    A bank's compliance with its CRA obligations is measured via a
performance-based evaluation system, which bases CRA ratings on a financial
institution's actual lending service and investment performance. When a bank
holding company applies for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding
company, the Federal Reserve Board will review the CRA assessment of each
subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company, and such records may be
the basis for denying the application. In June 1997, the Federal Reserve Board
rated the Bank "satisfactory" in complying with its CRA obligations.
 
    YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE
 
    The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), an oversight
authority for financial institutions, has issued several interagency statements
on Year 2000 project awareness. These statements require financial institutions
to, among other things, examine the Year 2000 implications of their reliance on
vendors, determine the potential impact of the Year 2000 issue on their
customers, suppliers and borrowers, and to survey its exposure, measure its risk
and prepare a plan to address the Year 2000 issue. In addition, federal banking
regulators have issued safety and soundness guidelines to be followed by
financial institutions to assure resolution of any Year 2000 problems. The
federal banking agencies have asserted that Year 2000 testing and certification
is a key safety and soundness issue in conjunction with regulatory examinations,
and the failure to appropriately address the Year 2000 issue could result in
supervisory action, including the reduction of the institution's supervisory
ratings, the denial of applications for mergers or acquisitions, or the
imposition of civil monetary penalties.
 
    The Company, following an initial awareness phase, is utilizing a
three-phase plan for achieving Year 2000 readiness. The Assessment Phase was
intended to determine which computers, operating systems and applications
require remediation and prioritizing those remediation efforts by identifying
mission critical systems. The Assessment Phase has been completed except for the
on-going assessment of new systems. The Remediation and Testing Phase addressed
the correction or replacement of any non-compliant hardware and software related
to the mission critical systems and testing of those systems. Since most of the
Bank's information technology systems are off-the-shelf software, remediation
efforts have focused on obtaining Year 2000 compliant application upgrades. The
Bank's core banking system, which runs loans, deposits and the general ledger,
has been upgraded to the Year 2000 compliant version and has been forward date
tested and Year 2000 certified by the Bank. The Year 2000 releases for all of
the Bank's other internal mission critical systems have also been received,
forward date tested and certified. The next step of this phase, testing mission
critical service providers, is anticipated to be substantially completed by
March 31, 1999. During the final phase, the Implementation Phase, remediated and
validated code will be tested in interfaces with customers, business partners,
government institutions, and others. It is anticipated that the Implementation
Phase will be substantially completed by June 30, 1999.
 
    The Company may be impacted by the Year 2000 compliance issues of
governmental agencies, businesses and other entities who provide data to, or
receive data from, the Company, and by entities, such as borrowers, vendors,
customers, and business partners, whose financial condition or operational
capability is significant to
 

the Company. Therefore, the Company's Year 2000 project also includes assessing
the Year 2000 readiness of certain customers, borrowers, vendors, business
partners, counterparties, and governmental entities. In addition to assessing
the readiness of these external parties, the Company is developing contingency
plans which will include plans to recover operations and alternatives to
mitigate the effects of counterparties whose own failure to properly address
Year 2000 issues may adversely impact the Company's ability to perform certain
functions. These contingency plans are currently being developed and are
expected to be substantially completed by June 30, 1999.
 
    If Year 2000 issues are not adequately addressed by the Company and
significant third parties, the Company's business, results of operations and
financial position could be materially adversely affected. Failure of certain
vendors to be Year 2000 compliant could result in disruption of important
services upon which the Company depends, including, but not limited to, such
services as telecommunications, electrical power and data processing. Failure of
the Company's loan customers to properly prepare for the Year 2000 could also
result in increases in problem loans and credit losses in future years. It is
not, however, possible to quantify the potential impact of any such losses at
this time. Notwithstanding the Company's efforts, there can be no assurance that
the Company or significant third party vendors or other significant third
parties will adequately address their Year 2000 issues. The Company is
continuing to assess the Year 2000 readiness of third parties but does not know
at this time whether the failure of third parties to be Year 2000 compliant will
have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, liquidity and
financial condition.
 
    The Company currently estimates that its total cost for the Year 2000
project will approximate $3.0 million. During 1998, the Company incurred $1.5
million in charges related to its Year 2000 remediation effort and expects to
incur $1.5 million in 1999. Charges include the cost of external consulting and
the cost of accelerated replacement of hardware, but do not include the cost of
internal staff redeployed to the Year 2000 project. The Company does not believe
that the redeployment of internal staff will have a material impact on its
financial condition or results of operations.
 
    The foregoing paragraphs contain a number of forward-looking statements.
These statements reflect Management's best current estimates, which were based
on numerous assumptions about future events, including the continued
availability of certain resources, representations received from third party
service providers and other factors. There can be no guarantee that these
estimates, including Year 2000 costs, will be achieved, and actual results could
differ materially from those estimates. A number of important factors could
cause Management's estimates and the impact of the Year 2000 issue to differ
materially from what is described in the forward-looking statements contained in
the above paragraphs. Those factors include, but are not limited to, the
availability and cost of programmers and other systems personnel, inaccurate or
incomplete execution of the phases, results of Year 2000 testing, adequate
resolution of Year 2000 issues by the Company's customers, vendors, competitors,
and counterparties, and similar uncertainties.
 
    The forward-looking statements made in the foregoing Year 2000 discussion
speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the Company
undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect
events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to
reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
    In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 130, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income." SFAS No. 130 establishes standards for all entities for
reporting comprehensive income and its components in financial statements. This
statement requires that all items which are required to be recognized under
accounting standards as components of comprehensive income be reported in a
financial statement that is displayed with the same prominence as other
financial statements. Comprehensive income is equal to net income plus the
change in "other comprehensive income," as defined by SFAS No. 130. The only
component of other comprehensive income currently applicable to the Company is
the net unrealized gain or loss on available-for-sale investments. SFAS No. 130
requires that an entity: (a) classify items of other comprehensive income by
their nature in a financial statement, and (b) report the accumulated balance of
other comprehensive income separately from common stock and retained earnings in
the equity section of the balance sheet. This statement is effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997
and was adopted by the Company as of January 1, 1998. See "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data--Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements--Comprehensive Income."
 

    In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information." This statement establishes standards for
publicly held entities to follow in reporting information about operating
segments in annual financial statements and requires that those entities also
report selected information about operating segments in interim financial
statements. This statement also establishes standards for related disclosures
about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. This
statement is effective for financial statements issued for periods beginning
after December 15, 1997 and was adopted by the Company as of December 31, 1998.
See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data--Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements--Significant Accounting Policies."
 
    SFAS No. 132, "Statement on Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Post-Retirement Benefits" was issued by the FASB in February 1998. This
statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997. The Company does not have a pension plan or
provide for other post-retirement benefits for employees, and thus this
statement does not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
financial statements.
 
    In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement requires that an entity
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet
and measure those instruments at fair value. The statement is effective for
fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. The Company
expects to adopt this statement on January 1, 2000. The Company has not yet
determined the impact of its adoption on the Company's consolidated financial
statements.
 
    In October 1998, FASB issued SFAS No. 134, "Accounting for Mortgage-Backed
Securities Retained after the Securitization of Mortgage Loans Held for Sale by
a Mortgage Banking Enterprise." SFAS No. 134 amends SFAS No. 65, "Accounting for
Certain Mortgage Banking Activities," which establishes accounting and reporting
standards for certain activities of mortgage banking enterprises and other
enterprises that conduct operations that are substantially similar. SFAS No. 134
requires that after the securitization of mortgage loans held for sale, the
resulting mortgage-backed securities and other retained interests should be
classified in accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities," based on the company's ability and intent to
sell or hold those investments. SFAS No. 134 is effective for the first fiscal
quarter beginning after December 15, 1998. The Company does not expect the
adoption of this statement to have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
    In 1995, the Bank relocated its corporate headquarters and main branch and
entered into a 10-year lease on a two-story office building located at 3003
Tasman Drive, Santa Clara, California. In July 1997, the Bank finalized an
amendment to the original lease associated with its corporate headquarters. The
amendment provides for the lease of additional premises, approximating 56,000
square feet, adjacent to the existing headquarters facility. The Company began
occupying the additional premises in August 1998.
 
    In addition to the headquarters lease in Santa Clara, the Bank has entered
into various other leases for properties that serve as branches and/or loan
offices. These properties are located in the following locations within
California: Irvine, Menlo Park, Palo Alto, San Diego, St. Helena, and West Los
Angeles. Offices located outside of California include: Phoenix, Arizona;
Boulder, Colorado; Atlanta, Georgia; Rosemont, Illinois; Rockville, Maryland;
Wellesley, Massachusetts; Beaverton, Oregon; Austin, Texas; and Bellevue,
Washington. All Bank properties are occupied under leases, which expire at
various dates through May 2005, and in most instances, include options to renew
or extend at market rates and terms. The Bank also owns leasehold improvements
and furniture, fixtures and equipment at its offices, all of which are used in
the Bank's business activities.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    There were no legal proceedings requiring disclosure pursuant to this item
pending at December 31, 1998, or at the date of this report.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    No matters were submitted to a vote by the shareholders of the Company's
common stock during the fourth quarter of 1998.
 

                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
        MATTERS
 
    MARKET INFORMATION
 
    The Company's common stock is traded over the counter on the National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation (Nasdaq) National Market
under the symbol "SIVB."
 
    The following table presents the high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock for each quarterly period during the last two years, based on the
daily closing price as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. The 1997 stock
prices have been restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split distributed on
May 1, 1998.
 

 
    SHAREHOLDERS
 
    The number of shareholders of record of the Company's common stock was 721
as of January 31, 1999.
 
    DIVIDENDS
 
    The Company declared no cash dividends in 1997 or 1998, and is subject to
certain restrictions and limitations on the payment of dividends pursuant to
existing and applicable laws and regulations. See "Item 1. Business--Supervision
and Regulation--Dividends and Other Transfers of Funds," and "Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data--Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements--Regulatory Matters" for additional discussion on restrictions and
limitations on the payment of dividends.
 

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
    The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the
Company's financial statements and supplementary data as presented in Item 8 of
this report. Certain reclassifications have been made to the Company's prior
years results to conform with 1998 presentations. In addition, the Common Share
Summary information for the prior years has been restated to reflect a
two-for-one stock split distributed on May 1, 1998. Such reclassifications had
no effect on the results of operations or shareholders' equity.
 

 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS
 
    The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of
operations should be read in conjunction with the Company's financial statements
and supplementary data as presented in Item 8 of this report. In addition to
historical information, this discussion and analysis includes certain
forward-looking statements regarding events and circumstances which may affect
the Company's future results. Such forward-looking statements are subject to
risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ
materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those
described in this discussion and analysis, as well as those described in Item 1
of this report.
 
    The Company wishes to caution readers not to place undue reliance on any
forward-looking statements included herein, which speak only as of the date
made. The Company does not undertake, and specifically disclaims any obligation,
to update any forward-looking statements to reflect unanticipated events and
circumstances occurring after the date of such statements.
 
    Certain reclassifications have been made to the Company's prior years
results to conform with 1998 presentations. Such reclassifications had no effect
on the results of operations or shareholders' equity.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
    EARNINGS SUMMARY
 
    The Company reported net income in 1998 of $28.9 million, compared with net
income in 1997 and 1996 of $27.7 million and $21.5 million, respectively.
Diluted earnings per share totaled $1.38 in 1998, compared to $1.36 and $1.11 in
1997 and 1996, respectively. Return on average equity in 1998 was 14.5%,
compared with 18.2% in 1997 and 17.9% in 1996. Return on average assets in 1998
was 1.0%, compared with 1.3% in 1997 and 1.4% in 1996.
 
    The slight increase in net income for 1998, as compared to 1997, was
primarily attributable to growth in both net interest income and noninterest
income, and was almost entirely offset by a significant increase in the
provision for loan losses and an increase in noninterest expense. The increase
in net income for 1997, as compared with 1996, was largely due to growth in net
interest income, partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense. The
major components of net income and changes in these components are summarized in
the following table for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, and
are discussed in more detail on the following pages.
 

 
    NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN
 
    Net interest income represents the difference between interest earned,
primarily on loans and investments, and interest paid on funding sources,
primarily deposits, and is the principal source of revenue for the Company. Net
interest margin is the amount of net interest income, on a fully
taxable-equivalent basis, expressed as a percentage of average interest-earning
assets. The average yield earned on interest-earning assets is the amount of
taxable-equivalent interest income expressed as a percentage of average
interest-earning assets. The average rate paid on funding sources expresses
interest expense as a percentage of average interest-earning assets.
 

    The following table sets forth average assets, liabilities and shareholders'
equity, interest income and interest expense, average yields and rates, and the
composition of the Company's net interest margin for the years ended December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

 
- ------------------------------
 
(1) Includes average interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions
    of $240, $306 and $345 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
(2) Interest income on non-taxable investments is presented on a fully
    taxable-equivalent basis using the federal statutory rate of 35% in 1998,
    1997 and 1996. These adjustments were $1,762, $812 and $262 for the years
    ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
(3) Average loans include average nonaccrual loans of $26,158, $19,681 and
    $22,897 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
(4) Average loans are net of average unearned income of $8,299, $6,922 and
    $4,169 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
(5) Loan interest income includes loan fees of $12,935, $10,567 and $8,176 in
    1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 

    Net interest income is affected by changes in the amount and mix of
interest-earnings assets and interest-bearing liabilities, referred to as
"volume change." Net interest income is also affected by changes in yields
earned on interest-earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing
liabilities, referred to as "rate change." The following table sets forth
changes in interest income and interest expense for each major category of
interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. The table also
reflects the amount of change attributable to both volume and rate changes for
the years indicated. Changes relating to investments in non-taxable municipal
securities are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using the federal
statutory rate of 35% in 1998, 1997 and 1996.
 

 
    Net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, totaled $148.4
million in 1998, an increase of $36.8 million, or 32.9%, from the $111.6 million
total in 1997. The increase in net interest income was attributable to a $60.2
million, or 36.1%, increase in interest income, offset by a $23.5 million, or
42.5%, increase in interest expense over the comparable prior year period. Net
interest income in 1997, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, increased $24.1
million, or 27.5%, compared to the $87.5 million total in 1996. This increase in
net interest income was the result of a $41.4 million, or 33.1%, increase in
interest income, offset by a $17.4 million, or 45.9%, increase in interest
expense over the comparable prior year period.
 
    The $60.2 million increase in interest income for 1998, as compared to 1997,
was the result of a $65.7 million favorable volume variance, slightly offset by
a $5.5 million unfavorable rate variance. The $65.7 million favorable volume
variance resulted from a $847.2 million, or 42.5%, increase in average interest-
earning assets over the comparable prior year period. The increase in average
interest-earning assets resulted from strong growth in the Company's average
deposits, which increased $772.9 million, or 39.2%, from 1997 to 1998. The
increase in average interest-earning assets consisted of loans, which increased
$345.2 million, plus a combination of highly liquid, lower-yielding federal
funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and investment
securities, which collectively increased $502.0 million, accounting for 59.3% of
the total increase in average interest-earning assets.
 
    Average loans increased $345.2 million, or 35.5%, in 1998 as compared to
1997, resulting in a $36.4 million favorable volume variance. This growth was
widely distributed throughout the loan portfolio, as reflected by increased loan
balances in all of the Company's technology, life sciences and special industry
niche practices, in specialized lending products, and throughout the Company's
loan offices located across the nation.
 
    In December 1998, the Company announced that the Bank had discontinued new
loan originations associated with its Religious Financial Resources (RFR)
Division. Started in 1995, the Bank had approximately $175.0 million in
outstanding loans to religious organizations, predominantly for construction of
buildings for
 

worship and education, as of December 31, 1998. Competitive changes within the
religious organizations market affected the Bank's ability to generate its
anticipated loan yield and provide returns that exceed the Company's required
return on capital. The credit quality of the RFR portfolio was not a factor in
the Company's decision to discontinue new RFR loan origination. Since inception,
the Company has not incurred any losses associated with the RFR portfolio. The
discontinuation of new RFR loan origination could have an effect on the future
loan growth of the Company.
 
    Average investment securities for 1998 increased $418.0 million, or 59.3%,
as compared to 1997, resulting in a $24.8 million favorable volume variance. The
aforementioned strong growth in average deposits exceeded the growth in average
loans during 1998, and generated excess funds that were largely invested in U.S.
agency securities, collateralized mortgage obligations and municipal securities.
The growth in the investment portfolio reflected Management's actions to
increase, as well as to further diversify the Company's portfolio of short-term
investments in response to a significant increase in liquidity.
 
    Average federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to
resell in 1998 increased a combined $84.1 million, or 26.9%, over the prior
year, resulting in a $4.5 million favorable volume variance. This increase was
largely due to the aforementioned strong growth in average deposits during 1998
coupled with Management's actions to further diversify the Company's portfolio
of short-term investments.
 
    For additional discussion of the Company's liquidity and investment
management activities, see the Item 7 sections entitled "Interest Rate Risk
Management" and "Liquidity."
 
    Unfavorable rate variances associated with each component of
interest-earning assets in 1998 resulted in a decrease in interest income of
$5.5 million as compared to the prior year. Short-term market interest rates
declined during the second half of 1998. As a result of this decline, the
Company earned lower yields in 1998 on federal funds sold, securities purchased
under agreement to resell and its investment securities, a significant portion
of which were short-term in nature, resulting in a $1.4 million unfavorable rate
variance as compared to the prior year. The average yield on loans in 1998
decreased 40 basis points from 1997, accounting for the remaining $4.1 million
of the total unfavorable rate variance. This decrease was primarily attributable
to both increased competition and a decline in the average prime rate charged by
the Company during the second half of 1998, as a substantial portion of the
Company's loans are prime rate-based.
 
    The yield on average interest-earning assets decreased 40 basis points in
1998 from the comparable prior year period. This decrease resulted from a
decline in the average yield on loans, largely due to both increased competition
and a decline in the Company's prime rate, as well as a continuing shift in the
composition of interest-earning assets towards a higher percentage of highly
liquid, lower-yielding federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement
to resell and investment securities. This shift in the composition of average
interest-earning assets resulted from the aforementioned strong growth in
deposits continuing to outpace the growth in the Company's average loans during
1998.
 
    The $41.4 million increase in interest income for 1997, as compared to 1996,
was due to a $42.3 million favorable volume variance, slightly offset by a $0.9
million unfavorable rate variance. The $42.3 million favorable volume variance
was attributable to growth in average interest-earning assets, which increased
$547.3 million, or 37.9%, from the prior year comparable period. The increase in
average interest-earning assets consisted of increases in each component of the
Company's interest-earning assets, and resulted from significant growth in
average deposits, which were up $531.8 million, or 36.9%, from the comparable
1996 period.
 
    Average loans increased $194.0 million, or 24.9%, in 1997 as compared to
1996. This year-over-year increase was widely distributed throughout the
Company's niches and products, as well as the Company's loan offices located
across the nation.
 
    The increase in average investment securities during 1997, as compared to
1996, of $285.3 million, or 68.0%, was largely invested in U.S. agency
securities, U.S. Treasury securities, mortgage-backed securities, and municipal
securities. This increase resulted from the aforementioned strong deposit growth
in 1997 that exceeded the growth in loans and was the result of Management's
decision to both increase the Company's portfolio of longer-term securities in
an effort to obtain available higher yields, and to increase as well as to
further diversify the Company's portfolio of short-term investments in response
to a significant increase in
 

liquidity. Average federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement
to resell increased $68.0 million, or 27.8%, in 1997, and was also a result of
the aforementioned strong growth in deposits coupled with Management's actions
to further diversify the Company's portfolio of short-term investments.
 
    In 1997, a $2.3 million unfavorable rate variance associated with loans was
partially offset by a combined $1.4 million favorable rate variance related to
federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and
investment securities, resulting in a decrease in interest income of $0.9
million as compared to 1996. The unfavorable rate variance related to loans
resulted from a 30 basis points decline in the average yield on loans from 1996
to 1997, and was largely due to increased competition. The average yields on
federal funds sold, securities purchased under agreement to resell and
investment securities increased in 1997 from the prior year, and resulted from
both an increase in short-term market interest rates and Management's actions to
increase the Company's portfolio of longer-term securities in an effort to
obtain available higher yields.
 
    The total yield on average interest-earning assets declined 30 basis points
in 1997 from the comparable prior year period. This decrease resulted from a
decline in the average yield on loans, largely due to increased competition, and
a shift in the composition of average interest-earning assets towards a higher
percentage of highly liquid, lower-yielding federal funds sold, securities
purchased under agreements to resell and investment securities. This shift in
the composition of average interest-earning assets resulted from the
aforementioned strong growth in average deposits outpacing growth in the
Company's average loans during 1997.
 
    Interest expense in 1998 increased $23.5 million from 1997. This increase
was due to an unfavorable volume variance of $26.1 million, partially offset by
a favorable rate variance of $2.6 million. The unfavorable volume variance
resulted from a $611.5 million, or 44.8%, increase in average interest-bearing
liabilities in 1998 as compared to 1997. This increase was largely concentrated
in the Company's bonus money market deposit product, which increased $592.0
million, or 66.1%, and was explained by high levels of client liquidity
attributable to a strong inflow of investment capital into the venture capital
community during 1998, and by growth in the number of clients served by the
Company.
 
    Changes in the average rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities had a $2.6
million favorable impact on interest expense in 1998 as compared to 1997. This
decrease in interest expense largely resulted from a reduction in the average
rate paid on the Company's bonus money market deposit product from 4.6% in 1997
to 4.3% in 1998. The reduction during 1998 in the average rate paid on the
Company's bonus money market deposit product was largely attributable to a
decline in short-term market interest rates during the second half of 1998.
 
    The average cost of funds paid in 1998 of 2.8% was flat with the prior year.
Although the average rate paid on the Company's bonus money market deposit
product decreased during 1998 as compared to 1997, this was offset by a
continuing shift in the composition of average interest-bearing liabilities
towards a higher percentage of deposits in that product.
 
    The increase in interest expense for 1997 of $17.3 million, as compared to
1996, was due to an unfavorable volume variance of $16.6 million and an
unfavorable rate variance of $0.7 million. The unfavorable volume variance
resulted from a $383.3 million, or 39.1%, increase in average interest-bearing
liabilities in 1997 as compared to 1996. This increase was primarily related to
the Company's bonus money market deposit product, which increased $307.0 million
from the prior year due to the high level of client liquidity attributable to
the strong inflow of investment capital into the venture capital community and
into the public equity markets, and due to growth during 1997 in the number of
clients served by the Company. The year-over-year $0.7 million unfavorable rate
variance was largely attributable to an increase during 1997 in the average rate
paid on the Company's bonus money market deposit product which resulted from an
increase in short-term market interest rates, as well as a shift in the
composition of interest-bearing liabilities towards a higher percentage of
deposits in the bonus money market deposit product.
 
    In 1997, the average cost of funds paid increased to 2.8%, up from 2.6% in
1996. This increase was attributable to both an increase in the average rate
paid on the Company's bonus money market deposit product in response to an
increase in short-term market interest rates, as well as to a shift in the
composition of interest-bearing liabilities towards a higher percentage of
deposits in the bonus money market deposit product.
 

    PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
    The provision for loan losses is based on Management's evaluation of the
adequacy of the existing allowance for loan losses in relation to total loans,
and on Management's periodic assessment of the inherent and identified risk
dynamics of the loan portfolio resulting from reviews of selected individual
loans and loan commitments.
 
    The Company's provision for loan losses totaled $37.2 million in 1998, a
significant increase compared to $10.1 million and $10.4 million in 1997 and
1996, respectively. The large increase in the Company's provision for loan
losses in 1998 was in response to the Company incurring $28.9 million in net
charge-offs in 1998, versus $5.1 million and $7.4 million in 1997 and 1996,
respectively. For a more detailed discussion of credit quality and the allowance
for loan losses, see the Item 7 section entitled "Financial Condition--Credit
Quality and the Allowance for Loan Losses."
 
    NONINTEREST INCOME
 
    The following table summarizes the components of noninterest income for the
past three years:
 

 
    Noninterest income increased $9.9 million, or 74.6%, in 1998 as compared to
1997. This increase was largely due to a $5.2 million increase in investment
gains, coupled with a $2.9 million increase in letter of credit fees, foreign
exchange fees and other trade finance income and a $1.2 million increase in
income from the disposition of client warrants. Noninterest income increased
$1.7 million, or 14.3%, in 1997 as compared to 1996. This increase was largely
due to a $1.1 million increase in letter of credit fees, foreign exchange fees
and other trade finance income.
 
    Letter of credit fees, foreign exchange fees and other trade finance income
totaled $7.4 million in 1998, an increase of $2.9 million, or 63.9%, from the
$4.5 million total in 1997, and an increase of $4.0 million, or 116.1%, from the
$3.4 million total in 1996. The growth in this category of noninterest income
reflects a concerted effort by Management to expand the penetration of trade
finance-related products and services among the Company's growing client base, a
large percentage of which provide products and services in international
markets.
 
    Income from the disposition of client warrants totaled $6.7 million, $5.5
million and $5.4 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The Company has
historically obtained rights to acquire stock (in the form of warrants) in
certain clients as part of negotiated credit facilities. The receipt of warrants
does not change the loan covenants or other collateral control techniques
employed by the Company to mitigate the risk of a loan becoming nonperforming,
and collateral requirements on loans with warrants are similar to lending
arrangements where warrants are not obtained. The timing and amount of income
from the disposition of client warrants typically depends upon factors beyond
the control of the Company, including the general condition of the public equity
markets as well as the merger and acquisition environment. Therefore income from
the disposition of client warrants cannot be predicted with any degree of
accuracy and is likely to vary materially from period to period. During the
years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, a significant portion of the
income from the disposition of client warrants was offset by expenses related to
the Company's efforts to build an infrastructure sufficient to support present
and prospective business activities, and was also offset by increases to the
provision for loan losses during those years. As opportunities present
themselves in future periods, the Company may continue to reinvest some or all
of the income realized from the disposition of client warrants in furthering its
business strategies.
 

    The Company realized $5.2 million in gains on sales of investment securities
during 1998, compared to $0.1 million in gains on sales of investment securities
during 1997, and a nominal gain on sales of investment securities during 1996.
The book value of securities sold during 1998 totaled $433.3 million and
primarily consisted of U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. agency securities,
mortgage-backed securities, and collateralized mortgage obligations. All
investment securities sold were classified as available-for-sale, and all sales
were conducted as a normal component of the Company's asset/liability and
liquidity management activities.
 
    Income related to deposit service charges totaled $1.7 million, $1.8 million
and $1.7 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Clients compensate the
Company for depository services either through earnings credits computed on
their demand deposit balances, or via explicit payments recognized by the
Company as deposit service charges income.
 
    Other noninterest income is largely composed of service-based fee income,
and totaled $2.1 million in 1998, compared to $1.4 million in 1997 and $1.1
million in 1996, respectively. The increase in 1998, as compared to 1997 and
1996, was primarily due to a higher volume of cash management and loan
documentation services related to the Company's growing client base.
 
    NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
    Noninterest expense in 1998 totaled $83.6 million, a $17.3 million, or
26.2%, increase from 1997. Total noninterest expense was $66.3 million in 1997,
up $13.6 million, or 25.9%, from 1996. Management closely monitors the Company's
level of noninterest expense using a variety of financial ratios, including the
efficiency ratio. The efficiency ratio is calculated by dividing the amount of
noninterest expense, excluding costs associated with other real estate owned, by
adjusted revenues, defined as the total of net interest income and noninterest
income, excluding income from the disposition of client warrants and gains or
losses related to sales of investment securities. This ratio reflects the level
of operating expense required to generate $1 of operating revenue. The Company's
efficiency ratio was 53.8% for 1998, down from 55.9% for both 1997 and 1996. The
following table presents the detail of noninterest expense and the incremental
contribution of each expense line item to the Company's efficiency ratio:
 

 
    Compensation and benefits expenses totaled $44.2 million in 1998, a $4.1
million, or 10.4%, increase over the $40.1 million incurred in 1997. This
increase was largely the result of an increase in the number of average
full-time equivalent (FTE) personnel employed by the Company, from 417 in 1997
to 521 in 1998, partially offset by a decrease in variable-based compensation
expenses associated with the Company's incentive bonus pool and employee stock
ownership plan due to lower than expected net income. Compensation and benefits
 

expenses in 1997 increased $8.7 million, or 27.6%, from the $31.4 million total
in 1996. The increase in compensation and benefits expenses in 1997 was
primarily the result of an increase in the number of average FTE employed by the
Company. Average FTE were 417 in 1997 compared with 363 in 1996. The increase in
FTE from 1996 through 1998 was primarily due to a combination of the Company's
efforts to develop and support new markets through geographic expansion, to
develop and expand products, services and niches, and to build an infrastructure
sufficient to support present and prospective business activities. Further
growth in the Company's FTE is likely to occur during future years as a result
of the continued expansion of the Company's business activities.
 
    Professional services expenses, which consist of costs associated with
corporate legal services, litigation settlements, accounting and auditing
services, consulting, and the Company's Board of Directors, totaled $9.9 million
in 1998, a $3.2 million, or 47.2%, increase from the $6.7 million total in 1997.
The Company incurred $5.0 million in professional services expenses in 1996. The
increase in professional services expenses in 1998, as compared to 1997 and
1996, primarily related to an increase in both consulting fees associated with
several business initiatives, including the Year 2000 remediation project, and
legal fees primarily related to loan consultations and the workout of various
commercial credits. The level of professional services expenses during the past
three years further reflects the extensive efforts undertaken by the Company to
continue to build and support its infrastructure, as well as evaluate and pursue
new business opportunities. It also reflects the Company's efforts in
outsourcing several corporate functions, such as internal audit, facilities
management and credit review, where the Company believes it can achieve a
combination of cost savings and increased quality of service.
 
    Occupancy, furniture and equipment expenses totaled $11.9 million in 1998,
$7.0 million in 1997 and $6.3 million in 1996. The increase in occupancy,
furniture and equipment expenses in 1998, as compared to 1997 and 1996, was
largely attributable to the Company incurring certain non-recurring costs in
connection with the expansion of its existing headquarters facility during the
second quarter of 1998 and an increase in recurring expenses associated with
that additional office space. Occupancy, furniture and equipment expenses were
also impacted by costs related to furniture, computer equipment and other
related costs associated with the Company opening new loan offices in West Los
Angeles, California and Rosemont, Illinois in early 1998. The Company intends to
continue its geographic expansion into other emerging technology marketplaces
across the U.S. during future years as opportunities to serve new markets arise.
 
    Business development and travel expenses totaled $6.0 million in 1998, an
increase of $1.5 million, or 33.5%, compared to the $4.5 million total in 1997.
The Company incurred $2.9 million in business development and travel expenses in
1996. The increase in business development and travel expenses during each of
the last two years was largely attributable to overall growth in the Company's
business, including both an increase in the number of FTE and expansion into new
geographic markets.
 
    Postage and supplies expenses totaled $2.2 million, $1.6 million and $1.4
million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Total telephone expenses were $2.2
million in 1998, $1.4 million in 1997 and $1.3 million in 1996. The increase in
postage and supplies and telephone expenses during each of the past two years
was largely the result of overall growth in the Company's business, including
both an increase in the number of FTE and expansion into new geographic markets.
 
    Advertising and promotion expenses totaled $2.2 million in 1998, $1.4
million in 1997 and $1.2 million in 1996. The increase in advertising and
promotion expenses in 1998, compared to 1997 and 1996, reflects a concerted
effort by the Company to increase its marketing efforts nationwide.
 
    Trust preferred securities distributions totaled $2.0 million in 1998 and
resulted from the issuance of $40.0 million in cumulative trust preferred
securities during the second quarter of 1998. The trust preferred securities pay
a fixed rate quarterly distribution of 8.25% and have a maximum maturity of 30
years. For further discussion related to the trust preferred securities, see the
Item 7 sections entitled "Liquidity" and "Capital Resources."
 
    Other noninterest expenses totaled $4.3 million, $3.4 million and $2.7
million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The increase in other noninterest
expenses in 1998 of $0.9 million, as compared to 1997, was primarily due to an
increase in data processing costs related to both the aforementioned overall
growth in the Company's business and several new business initiatives begun in
1998. In addition, there was an increase in costs associated with certain vendor
provided services resulting from growth in the Company's client base.
 

The $0.7 million increase in other noninterest expenses from 1996 to 1997 was
largely due to expenses associated with both an asset which was acquired through
foreclosure during 1997 and an increase in costs associated with certain vendor
provided services resulting from growth in the Company's client base.
 
    The Company realized a net gain of $1.3 million in connection with the sale
of an other real estate owned (OREO) property during 1998. In 1997, the Company
incurred minimal net costs associated with OREO, and in 1996, $0.4 million in
net OREO-related costs were incurred, primarily due to the write-down of one
property owned by the Company. The Company's net costs associated with OREO
include: maintenance expenses, property taxes, marketing costs, net operating
expense or income associated with income-producing properties, property
write-downs, and gains or losses on the sales of such properties.
 
    Certain lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business have
been filed or are pending against the Company and/or the Bank. Based upon
information available to the Company, its review of such claims to date and
consultation with its legal counsel, Management believes the liability relating
to these actions, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's liquidity, consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
    INCOME TAXES
 
    The Company's effective income tax rate was 41.1% in 1998, compared to 42.0%
in 1997 and 40.0% in 1996. The slight decrease in the Company's effective income
tax rate for 1998, as compared to 1997, was attributable to an increase in the
amount of tax-exempt interest income received by the Company. The increase in
the Company's effective income tax rate from 1996 to 1997, was due to
adjustments in the Company's estimate of its income tax liabilities.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
    The Company's total assets were $3.5 billion at December 31, 1998, an
increase of $920.3 million, or 35.1%, compared to $2.6 billion at December 31,
1997.
 
    FEDERAL FUNDS SOLD AND SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENT TO RESELL
 
    Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell
totaled a combined $399.2 million at December 31, 1998, an increase of $77.4
million, or 24.1%, compared to the $321.8 million outstanding at the prior year
end. This increase was attributable to the Company investing excess funds
resulting from the strong growth in deposits during 1998 which exceeded the
growth in loans, in these types of short-term, liquid investments.
 
    INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 
    The following table details the composition of investment securities, all of
which were classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value, at
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
 

 

    Investment securities totaled $1.4 billion at December 31, 1998. This
represented a $383.6 million, or 37.8%, increase over the December 31, 1997
balance of $1.0 billion. This increase resulted from excess funds that were
generated by strong growth in the Company's deposits outpacing the growth in
loans during 1998, and primarily consisted of U.S. agency securities,
collateralized mortgage obligations and municipal securities. The significant
increase in municipal securities was composed of both taxable and non-taxable
municipal obligations, and was largely attributable to the Company obtaining
slightly higher yields on these investments as compared to U.S. agency discount
notes and bonds and other short-term securities. The decreases in U.S. Treasury
securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial paper was primarily due to
sales and maturities. The overall growth in the investment portfolio reflected
Management's actions to increase as well as to further diversify the Company's
portfolio of short-term investments in response to a continued significant
increase in liquidity.
 
    At December 31, 1998, there were no investment securities held by the
Company which were issued by a single party, excluding securities issued by the
U.S. Government or by U.S. Government agencies and corporations, and which
exceeded 10.0% of the Company's shareholders' equity at year end.
 
    The following table provides the remaining contractual principal maturities
and fully taxable-equivalent yields on investment securities held by the Company
as of December 31, 1998. The weighted-average yield is computed using the
amortized cost of available-for-sale securities, which are reported at fair
value. Expected remaining maturities of mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized mortgage obligations will generally differ from their contractual
maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations with or
without penalties. Other equity securities, consisting largely of the common
stock of client companies, Federal Reserve Bank stock, investments in tax credit
funds, and venture capital investments, were included in the table below as
maturing after ten years.

 
    Mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and collateralized mortgage obligations
(CMO) pose risks not associated with fixed maturity bonds, primarily related to
the ability of the mortgage borrower to prepay the loan with or without penalty.
This risk, known as prepayment risk, may cause the MBS and the CMO to remain
outstanding for a period of time different than that assumed at the time of
purchase. When interest rates decline, prepayments generally tend to increase,
causing the average expected remaining maturity of the MBS and the CMO to
decline. Conversely, if interest rates rise, prepayments tend to decrease,
lengthening the average expected remaining maturity of the MBS and the CMO.
 

    LOANS
 
    The composition of the loan portfolio, net of unearned income, for each of
the past five years is as follows:
 

 
    Total loans at December 31, 1998, net of unearned income, were $1.6 billion,
representing a $437.3 million, or 37.2%, increase compared to the $1.2 billion
outstanding at December 31, 1997. The increase in loans from the 1997 year-end
total was widely distributed throughout the loan portfolio, as evidenced by
increased loan balances in all of the Company's market niches, specialized
lending products and loan offices.
 
    In December 1998, the Company announced that the Bank had discontinued new
loan originations associated with its Religious Financial Resources (RFR)
Division. Started in 1995, the Bank had approximately $175.0 million in
outstanding loans to religious organizations, predominantly for construction of
buildings for worship and education, as of December 31, 1998. Competitive
changes within the religious organizations market affected the Bank's ability to
generate its anticipated loan yield and provide returns that exceed the
Company's required return on capital. The credit quality of the RFR portfolio
was not a factor in the Company's decision to discontinue new RFR loan
origination. Since inception, the Company has not incurred any losses associated
with the RFR portfolio. The discontinuation of new RFR loan origination could
have an effect on the future loan growth of the Company.
 
    The following table sets forth the remaining contractual maturity
distribution of the Company's loans (reported on a gross basis) at December 31,
1998 for fixed and variable rate commercial and real estate construction loans:
 

 
    Upon maturity, loans satisfying the Company's credit quality standards may
be eligible for renewal. Such renewals are subject to the normal underwriting
and credit administration practices associated with new loans. The Company does
not grant loans with unconditional extension terms.
 
    A substantial percentage of the Company's loans are commercial in nature,
and such loans are generally made to emerging growth and middle-market companies
in a variety of industries. As of December 31, 1998, only one industry sector
(as identified by Standard Industrial Codes) represented more than 10.0% of the
Company's loan portfolio. The Religious Financial Resources Division, in which
new loan originations were
 

discontinued in December 1998, represented 10.6% of the Company's total loan
portfolio as of December 31, 1998.
 
    Management of the Company has continued to evaluate both the economic events
occurring in Asia during 1998 and the forecasts for the U.S. economy for 1999,
in an effort to determine the impact on the markets the Company serves. Now a
full year after commencement of the Asian economic crisis, the Company has
determined it has no direct exposure to the crisis. Only one borrowing client
has been critically affected by the Asian economic crisis and that asset has
been written down to reflect the perceived exposure. The outlook for the U.S.
economy in 1999 is uncertain and although no significant current or forecasted
negative impact has been identified with respect to the Company's loan growth,
credit quality, overall financial condition, and results of operations,
Management has decided to bolster the allowance for loan losses. Future events
and circumstances surrounding the economic conditions in the U.S. and Asia
cannot be predicted, nor can the impact of these future events and circumstances
on the Company's loan growth, credit quality, overall financial condition, and
results of operations be determined at the present time.
 
    General conditions in the public equity markets, in particular those related
to public stock offerings, as well as the merger and acquisitions environment,
may have an impact on the Bank. One consequence of an active market for public
stock offerings and mergers and acquisitions is the payoff or reduction of a
portion of the Bank's loans by some of its clients which complete public stock
offerings, or merge with, or are acquired by, another company. Such a reduction
in outstanding loans, if significant, could adversely affect the Company's
consolidated earnings.
 
    LOAN ADMINISTRATION
 
    Authority over the Company's loan policies resides with the Company's Board
of Directors. This authority is managed through the approval and periodic review
of the Company's loan policies. The Board of Directors delegates authority to
the Directors' Loan Committee to supervise the loan underwriting, approval and
monitoring activities of the Company. The Directors' Loan Committee consists of
outside Board of Directors members and the Company's Chief Executive Officer,
who serves as an alternate.
 
    Under the oversight of the Directors' Loan Committee, lending authority is
delegated to the Chief Credit Officer and the Company's Internal Loan Committee
consisting of the Chief Credit Officer, certain managers and loan
administrators. Requests for new and existing credits which meet certain size
and underwriting criteria may be approved outside of the Company's Internal Loan
Committee by designated senior lenders or jointly with a loan administrator.
 
    CREDIT QUALITY AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
    Credit risk is defined as the possibility of sustaining a loss because other
parties to the financial instrument fail to perform in accordance with the terms
of the contract. While the Bank follows underwriting and credit monitoring
procedures which it believes are appropriate in growing and managing the loan
portfolio, in the event of nonperformance by these other parties, the Bank's
potential exposure to credit losses could significantly affect the Company's
consolidated financial position and earnings.
 
    Lending money involves an inherent risk of nonpayment. Through the
administration of loan policies and monitoring of the loan portfolio, Management
seeks to reduce such risks. The allowance for loan losses is an estimate to
provide a financial buffer for losses, both identified and unidentified, in the
loan portfolio.
 
    Management regularly reviews and monitors the loan portfolio to determine
the risk profile of each credit, and to identify credits whose risk profiles
have changed. This review includes, but is not limited to, such factors as
payment status, the financial condition of the borrower, borrower compliance
with loan covenants, underlying collateral values, potential loan
concentrations, and general economic conditions. Potential problem credits are
identified and, based upon known information, action plans are developed.
 

    Management has established an evaluation process designed to determine the
adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. This process attempts to assess the
risk of losses inherent in the loan portfolio by segregating the allowance for
loan losses into three components: "specific," "loss migration," and "general."
The specific component is established by allocating a portion of the allowance
for loan losses to individual classified credits on the basis of specific
circumstances and assessments. The loss migration component is calculated as a
function of the historical loss migration experience of the internal loan credit
risk rating categories. The general component is an unallocated portion that
supplements the first two components and includes: Management's judgment of the
effect of current and forecasted economic conditions on the borrowers' abilities
to repay, an evaluation of the allowance for loan losses in relation to the size
of the overall loan portfolio, an evaluation of the composition of, and growth
trends within, the loan portfolio, consideration of the relationship of the
allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans, net charge-off trends, and
other factors. While this evaluation process utilizes historical and other
objective information, the classification of loans and the establishment of the
allowance for loan losses, relies, to a great extent, on the judgment and
experience of Management.
 
    An analysis of the allowance for loan losses for the past five years is as
follows:
 

 
    The following table displays the allocation of the allowance for loan losses
among specific classes of loans:

 
    The allowance for loan losses totaled $46.0 million at December 31, 1998, an
increase of $8.3 million, or 22.0%, compared to $37.7 million at December 31,
1997. This increase was due to $37.2 million in additional provisions to the
allowance for loan losses, offset by net charge-offs of $28.9 million during
1998. The 1998
 

net charge-off amount was composed of $31.1 million in gross charge-offs and
$2.3 million in gross recoveries.
 
    The 1998 gross charge-off total included $17.4 million and $7.2 million in
charge-offs that were incurred during the third and fourth quarters of 1998,
respectively. Gross charge-offs for the third quarter of 1998, the largest of
which was $7.0 million, were primarily related to five commercial credits and
were not concentrated in any particular niche or industry. Of the total 1998
third quarter gross charge-offs, $8.1 million were classified as nonperforming
loans at the end of 1997, while $8.7 million were disclosed in the Company's
1998 second quarter 10-Q as having a higher than normal risk of becoming
nonperforming loans during the third quarter of 1998.
 
    The Company incurred $7.2 million in gross charge-offs during the fourth
quarter of 1998, primarily centered in the Company's QuickStart and bridge
portfolios. Gross charge-offs in the fourth quarter of 1998 included three
bridge loans and four QuickStart loans totaling $2.5 million and $1.9 million,
respectively. The Company's QuickStart product is based in large part on an
analysis that indicates that almost all venture capital-backed clients that
receive a first round of equity infusion from a venture capitalist will receive
a second round. The analysis indicated that the second round typically occurred
18 months after the first round. Hence, proceeds from the second round could be
used to pay off the 18 month term loan offered under the QuickStart product.
However, the second round has been occurring much sooner than expected and the
additional cash infusion has occasionally been depleted before 18 months. The
likelihood of a third round occurring is not as great as a second round and thus
this has resulted in higher than anticipated charge-offs related to this product
during the fourth quarter of 1998.
 
    The unallocated component of the allowance for loan losses as of December
31, 1998 increased $10.1 million, or 162.7%, from the prior year end. This
increase reflects Management's decision to further bolster the allowance for
loan losses and maintain strong coverage ratios based on the economic
uncertainty surrounding many of the Company's markets in 1999 and the higher
than normal charge-offs experienced during the third and fourth quarters of
1998.
 
    Gross charge-offs for 1997 were $9.2 million, and included charge-offs
totaling $6.5 million related to two commercial credits, one in the Bank's
technology and life sciences niche and the other in one of the Bank's special
industry niches. Gross recoveries of $4.2 million in 1997 included $1.1 million
related to a commercial credit in one of the Bank's special industry niches that
was partially charged off in 1996. Gross charge-offs for 1996 were $9.7 million,
and primarily resulted from five credits, none of which were related to the
Bank's technology and life sciences niche. Gross recoveries of $2.3 million in
1996 included $0.9 million related to one commercial credit that was partially
charged off in 1994. Net loan recoveries in 1995 of $1.0 million included $2.7
million in recoveries from a real estate client relationship that had been
charged off in 1992 and $1.1 million in recoveries related to a commercial
credit that was partially charged off in 1994. Net loan charge-offs of $8.1
million in 1994 included the partial charge-off of loans to two commercial
borrowers totaling $5.5 million.
 
    In general, Management believes the allowance for loan losses is adequate as
of December 31, 1998. However, future changes in circumstances, economic
conditions or other factors could cause Management to increase or decrease the
allowance for loan losses as deemed necessary.
 
    Nonperforming assets consist of loans that are past due 90 days or more
which are still accruing interest, loans on nonaccrual status and OREO and other
foreclosed assets. The table below sets forth certain relationships between
nonperforming loans, nonperforming assets and the allowance for loan losses.
During 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company's nonaccrual loans represented all
impaired loans. Loans placed on nonaccrual status were measured by the Company
for impairment based on the fair value of the underlying collateral or the net
present value of the expected cash flows in accordance with SFAS No. 114,
"Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan."
 

 

 
- ------------------------
 
(1) In accordance with SFAS No. 114, in-substance foreclosure loans have been
    reclassified from OREO to nonaccrual loans. The reclassified amount is
    $1,377 at December 31, 1994.
 
    The detailed composition of nonaccrual loans is presented in the following
table. There were no real estate construction or term loans on nonaccrual status
at December 31, 1998 and 1997.
 

 
    Nonperforming loans totaled $19.9 million at December 31, 1998, a decrease
of $5.6 million, or 22.0%, from the $25.5 million total at December 31, 1997. Of
the total nonperforming loans at year-end 1997, $10.0 million were charged off,
$7.4 million were placed on performing status and $4.8 million were repaid
during 1998. Additionally, $16.6 million in loans were placed on nonperforming
status during 1998 and still classified as nonperforming loans at the end of
1998.
 
    Nonperforming loans at December 31, 1997 totaled $25.5 million, an increase
of $2.4 million, or 10.2%, from the $23.1 million total at December 31, 1996, as
a $9.9 million net increase in nonaccrual loans during 1997 was largely offset
by the payoff during the first quarter of 1997 of one credit in excess of $8.0
million that was more than 90 days past due, and still accruing interest, as of
December 31, 1996. The increase in nonaccrual loans at December 31, 1997, from
the prior year end, was primarily due to two commercial credits totaling
approximately $14.1 million which were placed on nonaccrual status during the
last half of 1997, one of which was returned to performing status in the first
quarter of 1998 and the other was partially charged off in 1998, with the
remaining balance still in nonperforming. Nonperforming loans at December 31,
1996 included the aforementioned credit in excess of $8.0 million that was more
than 90 days past due, and still accruing interest, as of December 31, 1996. The
Export-Import Bank of the U.S. (EX-IM) provided the Bank with a guarantee of
this credit facility, and the Bank received the guarantee payment related to
this credit from the EX-IM in the first quarter of 1997. The $17.1 million
increase in nonperforming loans at December 31, 1995, compared to year-end 1994,
was concentrated in two commercial credits, both of which were paid off during
1996 and 1997.
 

    In addition to the loans disclosed in the foregoing analysis, Management has
identified three loans with principal amounts aggregating approximately $11.1
million, that, on the basis of information known by Management, were judged to
have a higher than normal risk of becoming nonperforming. The Company is not
aware of any other loans where known information about possible problems of the
borrower casts serious doubts about the ability of the borrower to comply with
the loan repayment terms.
 
    OREO and other foreclosed assets totaled a combined $1.8 million and $1.9
million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The OREO and other
foreclosed assets balance at December 31, 1998 consisted of one OREO property
and one other asset which was acquired through foreclosure. The OREO property
consists of multiple undeveloped lots and was acquired by the Company prior to
June 1993. The one other asset acquired through foreclosure, which totaled $1.1
million at December 31, 1998, consists of a favorable leasehold right under a
master lease which the Company acquired upon foreclosure of a loan during 1997.
 
    DEPOSITS
 
    The Company's deposits are largely obtained from companies within the
technology and life sciences niche, and, to a lesser extent, from businesses
within the Company's special industry niches and from individuals served by the
Company's Executive Banking Division. The Company does not obtain deposits from
conventional retail sources and does not accept brokered deposits. The following
table presents the composition of the Company's deposits for the last five
years:
 

 
    Total deposits were $3.3 billion at December 31, 1998, an increase of $837.3
million, or 34.4%, from the prior year-end total of $2.4 billion. A significant
portion of the increase in deposits during 1998 was concentrated in the
Company's highest-rate paying deposit product, its bonus money market deposit
product, which increased $689.2 million, or 60.1%, and in the Company's
noninterest-bearing demand deposits, which increased $133.3 million, or 16.9%,
from the prior year end. Increased balances during 1998 in most of the Company's
deposit products were explained by high levels of client liquidity attributable
to a strong inflow of investment capital into the venture capital community, and
by growth during 1998 in the number of clients served by the Company.
 
    The aggregate amount of time deposit accounts individually exceeding
$100,000 totaled $122.8 million and $110.4 million at December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively. At December 31, 1998, all time deposit accounts exceeding
$100,000 were scheduled to mature within one year. No material portion of the
Company's deposits has been obtained from a single depositor and the loss of any
one depositor would not materially affect the business of the Company.
 
YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE
 
    The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), an oversight
authority for financial institutions, has issued several interagency statements
on Year 2000 project awareness. These statements require financial institutions
to, among other things, examine the Year 2000 implications of their reliance on
vendors, determine the potential impact of the Year 2000 issue on their
customers, suppliers and borrowers, and to survey its exposure, measure its risk
and prepare a plan to address the Year 2000 issue. In addition, federal banking
regulators have issued safety and soundness guidelines to be followed by
financial institutions to assure resolution of any Year 2000 problems. The
federal banking agencies have asserted that Year 2000 testing and certification
is a key safety and soundness issue in conjunction with regulatory examinations,
and the failure to appropriately address the Year 2000 issue could result in
supervisory action, including the
 

reduction of the institution's supervisory ratings, the denial of applications
for mergers or acquisitions, or the imposition of civil monetary penalties.
 
    The Company, following an initial awareness phase, is utilizing a
three-phase plan for achieving Year 2000 readiness. The Assessment Phase was
intended to determine which computers, operating systems and applications
require remediation and prioritizing those remediation efforts by identifying
mission critical systems. The Assessment Phase has been completed except for the
on-going assessment of new systems. The Remediation and Testing Phase addressed
the correction or replacement of any non-compliant hardware and software related
to the mission critical systems and testing of those systems. Since most of the
Bank's information technology systems are off-the-shelf software, remediation
efforts have focused on obtaining Year 2000 compliant application upgrades. The
Bank's core banking system, which runs loans, deposits and the general ledger,
has been upgraded to the Year 2000 compliant version and has been forward date
tested and Year 2000 certified by the Bank. The Year 2000 releases for all of
the Bank's other internal mission critical systems have also been received,
forward date tested and certified. The next step of this phase, testing mission
critical service providers, is anticipated to be substantially completed by
March 31, 1999. During the final phase, the Implementation Phase, remediated and
validated code will be tested in interfaces with customers, business partners,
government institutions, and others. It is anticipated that the Implementation
Phase will be substantially completed by June 30, 1999.
 
    The Company may be impacted by the Year 2000 compliance issues of
governmental agencies, businesses and other entities who provide data to, or
receive data from, the Company, and by entities, such as borrowers, vendors,
customers, and business partners, whose financial condition or operational
capability is significant to the Company. Therefore, the Company's Year 2000
project also includes assessing the Year 2000 readiness of certain customers,
borrowers, vendors, business partners, counterparties, and governmental
entities. In addition to assessing the readiness of these external parties, the
Company is developing contingency plans which will include plans to recover
operations and alternatives to mitigate the effects of counterparties whose own
failure to properly address Year 2000 issues may adversely impact the Company's
ability to perform certain functions. These contingency plans are currently
being developed and are expected to be substantially completed by June 30, 1999.
 
    If Year 2000 issues are not adequately addressed by the Company and
significant third parties, the Company's business, results of operations and
financial position could be materially adversely affected. Failure of certain
vendors to be Year 2000 compliant could result in disruption of important
services upon which the Company depends, including, but not limited to, such
services as telecommunications, electrical power and data processing. Failure of
the Company's loan customers to properly prepare for the Year 2000 could also
result in increases in problem loans and credit losses in future years. It is
not, however, possible to quantify the potential impact of any such losses at
this time. Notwithstanding the Company's efforts, there can be no assurance that
the Company or significant third party vendors or other significant third
parties will adequately address their Year 2000 issues. The Company is
continuing to assess the Year 2000 readiness of third parties but does not know
at this time whether the failure of third parties to be Year 2000 compliant will
have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, liquidity and
financial condition.
 
    The Company currently estimates that its total cost for the Year 2000
project will approximate $3.0 million. During 1998, the Company incurred $1.5
million in charges related to its Year 2000 remediation effort and expects to
incur $1.5 million in 1999. Charges include the cost of external consulting and
the cost of accelerated replacement of hardware, but do not include the cost of
internal staff redeployed to the Year 2000 project. The Company does not believe
that the redeployment of internal staff will have a material impact on its
financial condition or results of operations.
 
    The foregoing paragraphs contain a number of forward-looking statements.
These statements reflect Management's best current estimates, which were based
on numerous assumptions about future events, including the continued
availability of certain resources, representations received from third party
service providers and other factors. There can be no guarantee that these
estimates, including Year 2000 costs, will be achieved, and actual results could
differ materially from those estimates. A number of important factors could
cause Management's estimates and the impact of the Year 2000 issue to differ
materially from what is described in the forward-looking statements contained in
the above paragraphs. Those factors include, but are not limited to, the
availability and cost of programmers and other systems personnel, inaccurate or
incomplete
 

execution of the phases, results of Year 2000 testing, adequate resolution of
Year 2000 issues by the Company's customers, vendors, competitors, and
counterparties, and similar uncertainties.
 
    The forward-looking statements made in the foregoing Year 2000 discussion
speak only as of the date on which such statements are made, and the Company
undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect
events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made or to
reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
 
    A key objective of asset/liability management is to manage interest rate
risk associated with changing asset and liability cash flows and market interest
rate movements. Interest rate risk occurs when interest rate sensitive assets
and liabilities do not reprice simultaneously and in equal volumes. The
asset/liability committee of the Bank (ALCO) provides oversight to the Company's
interest rate risk management process and recommends policy guidelines regarding
exposure to interest rates for approval by the Board of Directors. Adherence to
these policies is monitored on an ongoing basis, and decisions related to the
management of interest rate exposure are made when appropriate and agreed to by
the ALCO.
 
    The Company manages interest rate risk principally through strategies
involving its investment securities portfolio, including adjusting both the
maturity structure of the portfolio and the amount of interest rate sensitive
securities. Company policies also permit the limited use of off-balance sheet
derivative instruments in managing interest rate risk. At December 31, 1998, the
Company held one such off-balance sheet derivative transaction in the form of an
interest rate swap for a notional principal amount of $150 million to mature on
November 29, 1999. This transaction was entered into as part of the Company's
normal interest rate risk management process. See "Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data--Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements--Financial Instruments With Off-Balance Sheet Risk" for additional
related discussion.
 
    The Company's monitoring activities related to managing interest rate risk
include both interest rate sensitivity "gap" analysis and the use of a
simulation model. While traditional gap analysis provides a simple picture of
the interest rate risk embedded in the balance sheet, it provides only a static
view of interest rate sensitivity at a specific point in time and does not
measure the potential volatility in forecasted results relating to changes in
market interest rates over time. Accordingly, the Company combines the use of
gap analysis with use of a simulation model which provides a dynamic assessment
of interest rate sensitivity.
 
    The interest rate sensitivity gap is defined as the difference between the
amount of interest-earning assets anticipated to reprice within a specific time
period and the amount of funding sources anticipated to reprice within that same
time period. A gap is considered positive when the amount of interest rate
sensitive assets repricing within a specific time period exceeds the amount of
funding sources repricing within that same time period. Positive cumulative gaps
in early time periods suggest that earnings will increase when interest rates
rise. Negative cumulative gaps suggest that earnings will increase when interest
rates fall. Company policy guidelines provide that the cumulative one-year gap
as a percentage of interest-earning assets should not exceed 20.0%. The gap
analysis as of December 31, 1998 indicates that the Company was positioned
within these guidelines as the cumulative one-year gap as a percentage of
interest-earning assets was 6.6%. The following table illustrates the Company's
interest rate sensitivity gap positions at December 31, 1998.
 

                    INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS AS OF
                               DECEMBER 31, 1998

 
- ------------------------------
 
(1) Includes interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions of $202
    as of December 31, 1998.
 
(2) Principal cash flows are based on estimated principal payments as of
    December 31, 1998.
 
(3) Not stated column consists of equity securities, tax credit funds, venture
    capital investments, and Federal Reserve Bank stock as of December 31, 1998.
 
(4) Not stated column consists of nonaccrual loans of $19,444 and overdrafts of
    $8,807, offset by unearned income of $10,003 as of December 31, 1998.
 
(5) Maturity/repricing columns for fixed rate loans are based upon the amount
    and timing of related principal payments as of December 31, 1998.
 

    One application of the aforementioned simulation model involves measurement
of the impact of market interest rate changes on the net present value of
estimated cash flows from the Company's assets, liabilities and off-balance
sheet items, defined as the Company's market value of portfolio equity (MVPE).
This analysis assesses the changes in market values of interest rate sensitive
financial instruments which would occur in response to an instantaneous and
sustained increase or decrease in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis
points, and the resulting effect on the Company's MVPE. Policy guidelines
establish maximum variances in the Company's MVPE of 20.0% and 30.0% in the
event of an instantaneous and sustained increase or decrease in market interest
rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively. At December 31, 1998, the
Company's MVPE exposure related to the aforementioned changes in market interest
rates was within policy guidelines.
 
    The following table presents the Company's MVPE exposure at December 31,
1998 and December 31, 1997 related to an instantaneous and sustained increase or
decrease in market interest rates of 100 and 200 basis points, respectively.
 

 
    The preceding table indicates that in the event of an instantaneous and
sustained increase in market interest rates, the Company's MVPE would be
expected to decrease, and that in the event of an instantaneous and sustained
decrease in market interest rates, the Company's MVPE would be expected to
increase.
 
    The market value calculations supporting the results in the preceding table
are based on the present value of estimated cash flows utilizing both market
interest rates provided by independent broker/dealers and other publicly
available sources which the Company deems reliable. These calculations do not
contemplate any changes which the ALCO could make to reduce the Company's MVPE
exposure in response to a change in market interest rates.
 
    As with any method of measuring interest rate risk, certain shortcomings are
inherent in the method of analysis presented in the preceding table. For
example, although certain of the Company's assets and liabilities may have
similar maturities or periods to repricing, they may react in different degrees
to changes in market interest rates. In addition, the interest rates on certain
of the Company's asset and liability categories may precede, or lag behind,
changes in market interest rates. Also, the actual rates of prepayments on loans
and investments could vary significantly from the assumptions utilized in
deriving the results as presented in the preceding table. Further, a change in
U.S. Treasury rates accompanied by a change in the shape of the treasury yield
curve could result in different MVPE estimations from those presented herein.
Accordingly, the results in the preceding table should not be relied upon as
indicative of actual results in the event of changing market interest rates.
Additionally, the resulting MVPE estimates are not intended to represent, and
should not be construed to represent, the underlying value of the Company.
 
    The simulation model also provides the ALCO with the ability to simulate the
Company's net interest income using either one interest rate forecast (simple
simulation) or a forecast of multiple interest rate scenarios (stochastic
simulation). In order to measure, as of December 31, 1998, the sensitivity of
the
 

Company's forecasted net interest income to changing interest rates, utilizing
the simple simulation methodology, both a rising and falling interest rate
scenario were projected and compared to a base market interest rate forecast
derived from the treasury yield curve. For the rising and falling interest rate
scenarios, the base market interest rate forecast was increased or decreased, as
applicable, by 200 basis points in 12 equal increments over a one-year period.
Company policy guidelines provide that the difference between a base market
interest rate forecast scenario over the succeeding one-year period compared
with the aforementioned rising and falling interest rate scenarios over the same
time period should not result in net interest income sensitivity exceeding
20.0%. Simulations as of December 31, 1998 indicated that the Company was well
within these policy guidelines.
 
    Interest rate risk is the most significant market risk impacting the
Company. Other types of market risk affecting the Company in the normal course
of its business activities include foreign currency exchange risk and equity
price risk. The impact on the Company, resulting from these latter two market
risks, is deemed immaterial and no separate quantitative information concerning
market rate and price exposure is presented herein. The Company does not
maintain a portfolio of trading securities and does not intend to engage in such
activities in the immediate future.
 
LIQUIDITY
 
    Another important objective of asset/liability management is to manage
liquidity. The objective of liquidity management is to ensure that funds are
available in a timely manner to meet loan demand and depositors' needs, and to
service other liabilities as they come due, without causing an undue amount of
cost or risk, and without causing a disruption to normal operating conditions.
 
    The Company regularly assesses the amount and likelihood of projected
funding requirements through a review of factors such as historical deposit
volatility and funding patterns, present and forecasted market and economic
conditions, individual client funding needs, and existing and planned Company
business activities. The ALCO provides oversight to the liquidity management
process and recommends policy guidelines, subject to Board of Directors
approval, and courses of action to address the Company's actual and projected
liquidity needs.
 
    The ability to attract a stable, low-cost base of deposits is the Company's
primary source of liquidity. Other sources of liquidity available to the Company
include short-term borrowings, which consist of federal funds purchased,
security repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowing arrangements. The
Company's liquidity requirements can also be met through the use of its
portfolio of liquid assets. Liquid assets, as defined by the Company, include
cash and cash equivalents in excess of the minimum levels necessary to carry out
normal business operations, federal funds sold, securities purchased under
resale agreements, investment securities maturing within six months, investment
securities eligible and available for pledging purposes with a maturity in
excess of six months, and anticipated near term cash flows from investments.
 
    Bank policy guidelines provide that liquid assets as a percentage of total
deposits should not fall below 20.0%. At December 31, 1998, the Bank's ratio of
liquid assets to total deposits was 52.5%. This ratio is well in excess of the
Bank's minimum policy guidelines and is slightly higher than the comparable
ratio of 52.1% as of December 31, 1997. In addition to monitoring the level of
liquid assets relative to total deposits, the Bank also utilizes other policy
measures in its liquidity management activities. As of December 31, 1998 and
1997, the Bank was in compliance with all of these policy measures.
 
    In analyzing the Company's liquidity during 1998, reference is made to the
Company's consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31,
1998 (see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"). The statement
of cash flows includes separate categories for operating, investing and
financing activities. Operating activities included net income of $28.9 million
for 1998, which was adjusted for certain non-cash items including the provision
for loan losses, depreciation, deferred income taxes, and an assortment of other
miscellaneous items. Investing activities consisted primarily of both proceeds
from and purchases of investment securities, which resulted in a net cash
outflow of $371.9 million, and the net change in total loans resulting from loan
originations and principal collections, which resulted in a net cash outflow of
$470.4 million in 1998. Financing activities reflected the net change in the
Company's total deposits, which increased $837.3 million during 1998, cash
proceeds received during the year from the issuance of Company common stock of
$5.7 million, and $38.5 million in cash proceeds received in May 1998 from the
issuance of the cumulative trust preferred securities. In total, the
transactions noted above resulted in a net cash inflow of
 

$95.4 million for 1998 and total cash and cash equivalents, as defined in the
Company's consolidated statement of cash flows, of $522.2 million at December
31, 1998.
 
CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
    Management seeks to maintain adequate capital to support anticipated asset
growth and credit risks, and to ensure that the Company and the Bank are in
compliance with all regulatory capital guidelines. The primary source of new
capital for the Company has been the retention of earnings. Aside from current
earnings, an additional source of new capital for the Company has been the
issuance of common stock under the Company's employee benefit plans, including
the Company's stock option plans, defined contribution plans and employee stock
purchase plan.
 
    Additionally, during the second quarter of 1998 the Company issued $40.0
million in cumulative trust preferred securities through a newly formed
special-purpose trust, SVB Capital I. The securities had an offering price
(liquidation amount) of $25 per security and distributions at a fixed rate of
8.25% are paid by the Company quarterly. The securities have a maximum maturity
of 30 years and qualify as Tier 1 capital under the capital guidelines of the
Federal Reserve Board. The Company received proceeds of $38.5 million related to
the sale of these securities, net of underwriting commissions and other offering
expenses. The proceeds are being used by the Company for general corporate
purposes, which may include, without limitation, investments in liquid
government and corporate debt securities, and investments in venture capital
funds. The trust preferred securities are presented as a separate line item in
the consolidated balance sheet of the Company under the caption "Company
obligated mandatorily redeemable trust preferred securities of subsidiary trust
holding solely junior subordinated debentures." For additional related
discussion, see "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data--Note 9 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements--Trust Preferred Securities."
 
    Shareholders' equity totaled $215.9 million at December 31, 1998, an
increase of $41.4 million, or 23.7%, from the $174.5 million balance at December
31, 1997. This increase was due to both 1998 net income of $28.9 million and
$12.5 million in net capital generated during 1998 primarily through the
Company's employee benefit plans. The Company has not paid a cash dividend on
its common stock since 1992, and does not have any material commitments for
capital expenditures as of December 31, 1998.
 
    The table below presents the relationship between the following significant
financial ratios:
 

 
    The Company and the Bank are subject to capital adequacy guidelines issued
by the Federal Reserve Board. Under these capital guidelines, the minimum total
risk-based capital ratio and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio requirements are
10.0% and 6.0%, respectively, of risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance
sheet items for a well capitalized depository institution.
 
    The Federal Reserve Board has also established minimum capital leverage
ratio guidelines for state member banks. The ratio is determined using Tier 1
capital divided by quarterly average total assets. The guidelines require a
minimum of 5.0% for a well capitalized depository institution.
 

    The Company's and the Bank's capital ratios were in excess of regulatory
guidelines for a well capitalized depository institution as of December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996. Capital ratios for the Company are set forth below:
 

 
    The Company's total risk-based capital ratio at the end of 1998 was
unchanged from the prior year end and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was
slightly higher than the prior year end, as growth in Tier 1 capital was offset
by an increase in total assets. This increase in total assets was largely in
lower risk-weighted categories and resulted from the Company's strong deposit
growth exceeding its loan growth during 1998. The Company's Tier 1 leverage
ratio increased to 7.6% from 7.1% at December 31, 1997. This increase was
largely attributable to the aforementioned issuance of $40.0 million in
cumulative trust preferred securities during 1998 through SVB Capital I. The
Company's total risk-based capital ratio and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
were unchanged at the end 1997 from the end of 1996. The decrease in the Tier 1
leverage ratio from December 31, 1996 to December 31, 1997 was primarily
attributable to an increase in average total assets due to strong growth in
deposits during 1997. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data--
Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements--Regulatory Matters" for the
Bank's capital ratios at December 31, 1998 and 1997.
 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                            INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
                                     [LOGO]
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Silicon Valley Bancshares:
 
    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Silicon
Valley Bancshares and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 1998 and
1997, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income,
changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 1998. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.
 
    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Silicon
Valley Bancshares and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.
 
                                          /s/ KPMG LLP
 
                                          Mountain View, California
                                          January 21, 1999
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 

 
                 See notes to consolidated financial statements
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
    The accounting and reporting policies of Silicon Valley Bancshares and its
subsidiaries (the "Company") conform with generally accepted accounting
principles and prevailing practices within the banking industry. Certain
reclassifications have been made to the Company's 1997 and 1996 consolidated
financial statements to conform to the 1998 presentations. Such
reclassifications had no effect on the results of operations or shareholders'
equity. The following is a summary of the significant accounting and reporting
policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
 
    NATURE OF OPERATIONS
 
    Silicon Valley Bancshares is a bank holding company whose principal
subsidiary is Silicon Valley Bank (the "Bank"), a California-chartered bank with
headquarters in Santa Clara, California. The Bank maintains regional banking
offices in California, and additionally has loan offices in Arizona, Colorado,
Georgia, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Oregon, Texas, and Washington. The
Bank serves emerging growth and middle-market companies in targeted niches,
focusing on the technology and life sciences industries, while also identifying
and capitalizing on opportunities to serve companies in other industries whose
financial services needs are underserved. Substantially all of the assets,
liabilities and earnings of the Company relate to its investment in the Bank.
 
    CONSOLIDATION
 
    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Silicon Valley
Bancshares and those of its wholly owned subsidiaries, the Bank, SVB Capital I
and SVB Leasing Company (inactive). The revenues, expenses, assets, and
liabilities of the subsidiaries are included in the respective line items in the
consolidated financial statements after elimination of intercompany accounts and
transactions.
 
    BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION
 
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires Management to make estimates and
judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the
balance sheet date and the results of operations for the period. Actual results
could differ from those estimates. A material estimate that is particularly
susceptible to possible change in the near term relates to the determination of
the allowance for loan losses. An estimate of possible changes or range of
possible changes cannot be made.
 
    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
    Cash and cash equivalents as reported in the consolidated statements of cash
flows includes cash on hand, cash balances due from banks, federal funds sold,
and securities purchased under agreement to resell. The cash equivalents are
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of
changes in value due to maturity dates of 90 days or less.
 
    FEDERAL FUNDS SOLD AND SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENT TO RESELL
 
    Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreement to resell as
reported in the consolidated balance sheets includes interest-bearing deposits
in other financial institutions of $202,000 and $273,000 at December 31, 1998
and 1997, respectively.
 
    INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 
    Investment securities are classified as either "available-for-sale,"
"held-to-maturity" or "trading" upon acquisition.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    Securities that are held to meet investment objectives such as interest rate
risk and liquidity management, but which may be sold by the Company as needed to
implement Management strategies, are classified as available-for-sale and are
accounted for at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale
securities, after applicable taxes, are excluded from earnings and are reported
as a separate component of shareholders' equity until realized. Currently, all
securities held by the Company are classified as available-for-sale.
 
    Securities acquired with the ability and positive intent to hold to maturity
are classified as held-to-maturity and are accounted for at historical cost,
adjusted for the amortization of premiums or the accretion of discounts to
maturity, where appropriate. Unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities
are realized and charged against earnings when it is determined that an other
than temporary decline in value has occurred.
 
    Securities acquired and held principally for the purpose of sale in the near
term are classified as trading and are accounted for at fair value. Unrealized
gains and losses resulting from fair value adjustments on trading securities, as
well as gains and losses realized upon the sale of investment securities, are
included in noninterest income.
 
    The amortization of premiums and the accretion of discounts are included in
interest income over the contractual terms of the underlying investment
securities using the interest method or the straight-line method, if not
materially different. Gains and losses realized upon the sale of investment
securities are computed on the specific identification method.
 
    LOANS
 
    Loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned
income. Unearned income includes both deferred loan origination and commitment
fees and costs. The net amount of unearned income is amortized into loan
interest income over the contractual terms of the underlying loans and
commitments using the interest method or the straight-line method, if not
materially different.
 
    ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
    The allowance for loan losses is established through a provision charged to
expense. It is the Company's policy to charge off loans which, in the judgment
of Management, are deemed to have a substantial risk of loss.
 
    The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level deemed adequate by
the Company, based upon various estimates and judgments, to provide for known
and inherent risks in the loan portfolio, including loan commitments. The
evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is based upon a
continuous review of a number of factors, including historical loss experience,
a review of specific loans, loan concentrations, prevailing and anticipated
economic conditions that may impact the borrowers' abilities to repay loans as
well as the value of underlying collateral, delinquency analysis, and an
assessment of credit risk in the loan portfolio established through an ongoing
credit review process by the Company and through periodic regulatory
examinations.
 
    NONACCRUAL LOANS
 
    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 114, "Accounting by
Creditors for Impairment of a Loan" and SFAS No. 118, "Accounting by Creditors
for Impairment of a Loan--Income Recognition and Disclosures" require the
Company to measure impairment of a loan based upon the present value of expected
future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, except that
as a practical expedient, the Company may measure impairment based on the loan's
observable market price or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is
collateral-dependent. A loan is considered impaired when, based upon currently
known information, it is deemed probable that the Company will be unable to
collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the agreement.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when they become 90 days past due as
to principal or interest payments (unless the principal and interest are well
secured and in the process of collection), when the Company has determined,
based upon currently known information, that the timely collection of principal
or interest is doubtful, or when the loans otherwise become impaired under the
provisions of SFAS No. 114.
 
    When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrued interest is reversed
against interest income and the loan is accounted for on the cash or cost
recovery method thereafter until qualifying for return to accrual status.
Generally, a loan will be returned to accrual status when all delinquent
principal and interest become current in accordance with the terms of the loan
agreement and full collection of the principal appears probable.
 
    PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
 
    Premises and equipment are reported at cost, less accumulated depreciation
and amortization computed using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful lives of the assets or the terms of the related leases, whichever is
shorter. This time period may range from one to 10 years. The Company had no
capitalized lease obligations at December 31, 1998 and 1997.
 
    OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED
 
    Loans secured by real estate are transferred to OREO at the time of
foreclosure. OREO is carried on the Company's balance sheet at the lower of the
recorded investment in the loan or the fair value of the property foreclosed
upon less estimated costs of disposal. Upon transfer of a loan to OREO, an
appraisal is obtained and any excess of the loan balance over the fair value of
the property less estimated costs of disposal is charged against the allowance
for loan losses. Revenues and expenses associated with OREO, and subsequent
adjustments to the fair value of the property and to the estimated costs of
disposal, are realized and reported as a component of noninterest expense when
incurred.
 
    FOREIGN EXCHANGE FORWARD CONTRACTS
 
    The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts with customers
involved in international trade finance activities, and enters into offsetting
foreign exchange forward contracts with correspondent banks to hedge against the
risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates related to the forward
contracts entered into with its customers. The notional, or contract, amounts
associated with these financial instruments are not recorded as assets or
liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Fees on these foreign
exchange forward contracts are included in noninterest income when the contracts
are settled. Cash flows resulting from these financial instruments are
classified in the same category as the cash flows resulting from the items being
hedged. The Company is an end-user of these derivative financial instruments and
does not conduct trading activities for such instruments.
 
    INCOME TAXES
 
    The Company files a consolidated federal income tax return, and consolidated
or combined state income tax returns as appropriate. The Company's federal and
state income tax provisions are based upon taxes payable for the current year as
well as current year changes in deferred taxes related to temporary differences
between the tax basis and financial statement balances of assets and
liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are included in the
consolidated financial statements at currently enacted income tax rates
applicable to the period in which the deferred tax assets and liabilities are
expected to be realized. As changes in tax laws or rates are enacted, deferred
tax assets and liabilities are adjusted through the provision for income taxes.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
 
    In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB")
issued SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." SFAS No. 123
establishes financial accounting and reporting standards for stock-based
compensation plans, including employee stock purchase plans, stock options and
restricted stock. SFAS No. 123 encourages all entities to adopt a fair value
method of accounting for stock-based compensation plans, whereby compensation
cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is
realized as an expense over the service or vesting period. However, SFAS No. 123
also allows an entity to continue to measure compensation cost for these plans
using the intrinsic value method of accounting prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," which is the method currently being
used by the Company. Under the intrinsic value method, compensation cost is
generally the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the stock at the
grant date or other measurement date over the amount which must be paid to
acquire the stock.
 
    The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 effective January 1, 1996, but continues to
account for employee and director stock-based compensation plans under the
intrinsic value accounting methodology prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25. SFAS
No. 123 requires that stock-based compensation to parties other than employees
and directors be accounted for under the fair value method.
 
    COMMON STOCK SPLIT
 
    On March 19, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one
stock split to shareholders of record at the close of business April 17, 1998,
effective May 1, 1998. All per share and shares outstanding data in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated to reflect the
stock split.
 
    EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
    In February 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share." SFAS
No. 128 establishes standards for computing and reporting EPS and applies to
entities with publicly held common stock or financial instruments that are
potentially convertible into publicly held common stock. This statement
supersedes APB Opinion No. 15, "Earnings per Share." The presentation of primary
EPS, as required by APB Opinion No. 15, is replaced with a presentation of basic
EPS, which is defined in SFAS No. 128. In addition, dual presentation of basic
EPS and diluted EPS, as defined in SFAS No. 128, is required on the face of the
income statement for all entities that have complex capital structures.
Disclosure of a reconciliation between basic EPS and diluted EPS is also
required.
 
    Basic EPS excludes dilution and is computed by dividing income available to
common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding
for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
financial instruments or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or
converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that
then shared in the earnings of the entity. Diluted EPS is computed similarly to
the fully diluted EPS computation required by APB Opinion No. 15. The Company
adopted SFAS No. 128 effective December 31, 1997. See "Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements--Earnings Per Share" for the disclosure of the
reconciliations between basic EPS and diluted EPS for the years ended December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
 
    SEGMENT REPORTING
 
    In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of
an Enterprise and Related Information." This statement establishes standards for
publicly held entities to follow in reporting information about operating
segments in annual financial statements and requires that those entities also
report selected information about operating segments in interim financial
statements. This statement also establishes standards for related disclosures
about products and services, geographic areas and major customers. This
statement is effective for financial statements issued for periods beginning
after December 15, 1997.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    The Company adopted SFAS No. 131 as of December 31, 1998, however since
Management views the Company as operating in only one segment, separate
reporting of financial information under SFAS No. 131 is not considered
necessary. Management approaches the Company's principal subsidiary, the Bank,
as one business enterprise which operates in a single economic environment,
since the products and services, types of customers and regulatory environment
all have similar economic characteristics.
 
    RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
    SFAS No. 132, "Statement on Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Post-Retirement Benefits" was issued by the FASB in February 1998. This
statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997. The Company does not have a pension plan or
provide for other post-retirement benefits for employees, and thus this
statement does not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
financial statements.
 
    In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement requires that an entity
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet
and measure those instruments at fair value. The statement is effective for
fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. The Company
expects to adopt this statement on January 1, 2000. The Company has not yet
determined the impact of its adoption on the Company's consolidated financial
statements.
 
    In October 1998, FASB issued SFAS No. 134, "Accounting for Mortgage-Backed
Securities Retained after the Securitization of Mortgage Loans Held for Sale by
a Mortgage Banking Enterprise." SFAS No. 134 amends SFAS No. 65, "Accounting for
Certain Mortgage Banking Activities," which establishes accounting and reporting
standards for certain activities of mortgage banking enterprises and other
enterprises that conduct operations that are substantially similar. SFAS No. 134
requires that after the securitization of mortgage loans held for sale, the
resulting mortgage-backed securities and other retained interests should be
classified in accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities," based on the company's ability and intent to
sell or hold those investments. SFAS No. 134 is effective for the first fiscal
quarter beginning after December 15, 1998. The Company does not expect the
adoption of this statement to have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
2. EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
    The following is a reconciliation of basic EPS to diluted EPS for the years
ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996:
 

 
3. RESTRICTIONS ON CASH BALANCES
 
    The Bank is required to maintain reserves against customer deposits by
keeping balances with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco in a
noninterest-bearing cash account. The minimum required reserve amounts were $4.7
million and $7.2 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The
average required reserve balance totaled $4.2 million in 1998 and $31.5 million
in 1997. The decrease in the average required reserve balance in 1998, compared
to the prior year, was due to a decrease in the amount of reservable customer
deposits.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
4. SECURITIES PURCHASED UNDER AGREEMENT TO RESELL
 
    Securities purchased under agreement to resell outstanding at December 31,
1998 consisted of U.S. Treasury securities. At other times during the year,
these securities also consisted of U.S. agencies and corporations discount notes
and bonds, bankers' acceptances and commercial paper. The securities underlying
the agreement are book-entry securities in the Bank's account at a correspondent
bank. Securities purchased under agreement to resell averaged $185.4 million in
1998, and the maximum amount outstanding at any month-end during 1998 was $403.0
million.
 
5. INVESTMENT SECURITIES
 
    All investment securities were classified as available-for-sale at December
31, 1998 and 1997. The Company did not maintain a trading portfolio during 1998
or 1997. The following tables detail the major components of the Company's
investment securities portfolio at December 31, 1998 and 1997.
 

 

 
    The amortized cost and fair value of investment securities classified as
available-for-sale at December 31, 1998, categorized by remaining contractual
maturity, are shown below. Expected remaining maturities of
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
5. INVESTMENT SECURITIES (CONTINUED)
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations will
generally differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the
right to prepay obligations with or without penalties. Other equity securities
were included in the table below as due after ten years.
 

 
    Investment securities with a fair value of $42.2 million and $21.7 million
at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, were pledged to secure certain
public deposits and a line of credit at the Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco discount window.
 
    Sales of available-for-sale investment securities resulted in the Company
realizing gross gains of $5,300,000, $162,000 and $1,000, and gross losses of
$59,900, $72,000 and $200 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
6. LOANS AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
    The detailed composition of loans, net of unearned income of $10.0 million
and $8.0 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, is presented in
the following table:
 

 
    The Company's loan classifications for financial reporting purposes differ
from those for regulatory reporting purposes. Loans are classified for financial
reporting purposes based upon the purpose and primary source of repayment of the
loans. Loans are classified for regulatory reporting purposes based upon the
type of collateral securing the loans.
 
    A substantial percentage of the Company's loans are commercial in nature,
and such loans are generally made to emerging growth and middle-market companies
in a variety of industries. As of December 31, 1998, there was only one industry
sector (as identified by Standard Industrial Codes) which represented more than
10.0% of the Company's loan portfolio. The Religious Financial Resources
Division, in which new loan originations were discontinued in December 31, 1998,
represented 10.6% of the Company's total loan portfolio as of December 31, 1998.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
6. LOANS AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES (CONTINUED)
 
    The activity in the allowance for loan losses is summarized below:
 

 
    The aggregate recorded investment in loans for which impairment has been
determined in accordance with SFAS No. 114 totaled $19.4 million and $24.5
million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Allocations of the
allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans totaled $4.4 million at
December 31, 1998 and $15.9 million at December 31, 1997. Average impaired loans
for 1998 and 1997 totaled $26.2 million and $19.7 million, respectively. If
these loans had not been impaired, $2.5 million and $1.1 million in interest
income would have been realized during the years ended December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively. The Company realized no interest income on such impaired
loans during 1998 or 1997.
 
7. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
 
    Premises and equipment consist of the following:
 

 
    The Company is obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases
for premises that expire at various dates through May 2005, and in most
instances, include options to renew or extend at market rates and terms. Such
leases may provide for periodic adjustments of rentals during the term of the
lease based on changes in various economic indicators. The following table
presents minimum payments under noncancelable operating leases:
 

 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
7. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
    Rent expense for premises leased under operating leases totaled $3.0
million, $2.0 million and $1.9 million for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
8. DEPOSITS
 
    The aggregate amount of time deposit accounts individually exceeding
$100,000 totaled $122.8 million and $110.4 million at December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively. At December 31, 1998, all time deposit accounts exceeding
$100,000 were scheduled to mature within one year.
 
9. TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES
 
    In May 1998, the Company issued $40.0 million in cumulative trust preferred
securities through a newly formed special-purpose trust, SVB Capital I. The
trust is a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary of the Company and its sole
assets are the junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures. Distributions
are cumulative and are payable quarterly at a rate of 8.25% per annum of the
stated liquidation amount of $25 per preferred security. In 1998, distributions
of $2.0 million were paid. The obligations of the trust are fully and
unconditionally guaranteed, on a subordinated basis, by the Company.
 
    The trust preferred securities are mandatorily redeemable upon the maturity
of the debentures on June 15, 2028, or to the extent of any earlier redemption
of any debentures by the Company and are callable beginning June 15, 2003.
 
    The purpose of issuing these trust preferred securities was to provide the
Company with a more cost-effective means of obtaining Tier 1 capital for
regulatory purposes than if the Company itself were to issue preferred stock
because the Company is allowed to deduct, for income tax purposes, distributions
to the holders of the trust preferred securities.
 
    Issuance costs of $1.6 million related to the trust preferred securities
were deferred and are being amortized over the period until mandatory redemption
of the securities in June 2028.
 
    Based on the Nasdaq closing price, the fair value of the trust preferred
securities was approximately $36.4 million as of December 31, 1998.
 
10. INCOME TAXES
 
    The components of the Company's provision for income taxes consist of the
following:
 

 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
10. INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    A reconciliation between the federal statutory income tax rate and the
Company's effective income tax rate is shown below.
 

 
    Deferred tax assets (liabilities) consist of the following:
 

 
    The Company believes a valuation allowance is not needed to reduce the net
deferred tax assets as it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax
assets will be realized through recovery of taxes previously paid and/or future
taxable income. The amount of the total gross deferred tax assets considered
realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future
taxable income during the carryforward periods are reduced.
 
11. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
    Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted SFAS No. 130, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income," which establishes new rules for the reporting and display
of comprehensive income and its components. The adoption of this statement had
no impact on net income or shareholders' equity. SFAS No. 130 requires the
Company's net unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities to be
included in other comprehensive income.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
11. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (CONTINUED)
    Components of other comprehensive (loss) income and the related income tax
expense or benefit, consists of the following:
 

 
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
    The Silicon Valley Bank 401(k) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the
"Plan") is a combined 401(k) tax-deferred savings plan and employee stock
ownership plan (ESOP) in which all employees of the Company are eligible to
participate.
 
    Employees participating in the 401(k) component of the Plan may elect to
have a portion of their salary deferred and contributed to the Plan. The amount
of salary deferred is not subject to federal or state income taxes at the time
of deferral. The Company matches up to $1,000 of an employee's contributions in
any plan year, with the Company's matching contribution vesting in equal annual
increments over five years. The Company's matching 401(k) contributions totaled
$0.5 million in 1998, $0.4 million in 1997 and $0.3 million in 1996.
 
    The Silicon Valley Bank Money Purchase Pension Plan (the "MPP Plan")
guarantees a 5.0% quarterly contribution to all individuals that are employed by
the Company on the first and last day of a fiscal quarter. The Company
contributes cash in an amount equal to 5.0% of an eligible employee's quarterly
base salary, less Internal Revenue Code (IRC) Section 401(k) and Section 125
deferrals. The MPP Plan contributions vest in equal annual increments over five
years. The Company's contributions to the MPP Plan totaled $1.1 million in 1998,
$0.9 million in 1997 and $0.8 million in 1996.
 
    Discretionary ESOP contributions, based on the Company's net income, are
made by the Company to all eligible individuals employed by the Company on the
last day of the fiscal year. The Company may elect to contribute cash, or the
Company's common stock, in an amount not exceeding 10.0% of the eligible
employee's base salary earned in the fiscal year, less IRC Section 401(k) and
Section 125 deferrals. The ESOP contributions vest in equal annual increments
over five years. In 1998, the Company did not make a discretionary ESOP
contribution since net income for the year ended December 31, 1998 did not meet
the thresholds set by the Company's Board of Directors at the beginning of 1998.
The Company's contributions to the ESOP totaled $1.7 million and $1.4 million
for 1997 and 1996, respectively. At December 31, 1998, the ESOP owned 886,713
equivalent shares of the Company's common stock. All shares held by the ESOP are
treated as outstanding shares in both the Company's basic and diluted earnings
per share computations.
 
    The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) under which
participating employees may annually contribute up to 10.0% of their gross
compensation to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at 85.0% of its
fair market value at either the beginning or end of each six-month offering
period, whichever price is less. All employees of the Company are eligible to
participate in the ESPP. The ESPP is noncompensatory to the employees and
results in no expense to the Company. For the first six-month offering period of
1998, 36,859 shares of the Company's common stock were issued under the ESPP at
$23.91 per share, while 50,201 shares of the Company's common stock were issued
at $14.48 per share for the second six-month offering period of 1998. At
December 31, 1998, 102,478 shares of the Company's common stock were reserved
for future issuance under the ESPP.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
 
    In April 1997, the Company's shareholders approved the 1997 Equity Incentive
Plan (the "1997 Plan"). The 1997 Plan, along with the Company's 1983 and 1989
stock option plans, provides for the granting of incentive and non-qualified
stock options which entitle directors, employees and certain other parties to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock at a price not less than 100% and
85% of the fair market value of the common stock on the date the option is
granted for incentive and non-qualified stock options, respectively. Options may
vest over various periods not in excess of five years from the date of grant and
expire five to ten years from the date of grant. The following table provides
stock option information related to the 1983 and 1989 stock option plans and the
1997 Plan:
 

 
    The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
as of December 31, 1998:
 

 
    At December 31, 1998, options for 524,010 and 52,862 shares were available
for future grant under the Company's 1997 Plan and 1989 stock option plan,
respectively. There were no shares available for future grant under the
Company's 1983 stock option plan.
 
    The Company's 1989 stock option plan and 1997 Plan also provide for the
granting of shares of the Company's common stock to directors, employees and
certain other parties. Shares granted to employees under these plans may be
subject to certain vesting requirements and resale restrictions (restricted
stock). For restricted stock, unearned compensation equivalent to the market
value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant is charged to
shareholders' equity and amortized into noninterest expense over the vesting
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
term. In 1998, 27,000 shares of restricted stock were issued to employees at a
weighted-average fair value of $30.01 per share. In 1997, 220,600 shares of
restricted stock were issued to employees at a weighted-average fair value of
$27.95 per share. In 1996, 35,000 shares of restricted stock were issued to
employees at a weighted-average fair value of $11.73 per share. At December 31,
1998, there were 255,600 shares of restricted stock outstanding, and the vesting
of these shares occurs at various periods through the year 2002.
 
    The Company recognized $2.0 million, $0.8 million and $0.1 million in
employee stock-based compensation costs resulting from the amortization of
unearned compensation related to restricted stock, stock options and other
miscellaneous employee stock awards during 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
    The Company adopted SFAS No. 123 effective January 1, 1996, but continues to
account for employee and director stock-based compensation plans under the
intrinsic value accounting methodology prescribed by APB Opinion No. 25. SFAS
No. 123 requires that stock-based compensation to parties other than employees
and directors be accounted for under the fair value method. Accordingly, no
compensation cost has been recognized for the Company's stock option awards to
employees and directors and for shares issued under the ESPP to employees in
1998, 1997 and 1996. The weighted-average fair values of options granted to
employees, directors and certain other parties were $12.39, $8.16 and $5.42 per
share in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Had compensation cost related to
both the Company's stock option awards to employees and directors and to the
ESPP been determined under the fair value method prescribed under SFAS No. 123,
the Company's net income, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per
share would have been the pro forma amounts indicated below.
 

 
- ------------------------
 
(1) The pro forma amounts noted above only reflect the effects of stock-based
    compensation grants made after 1994. Because stock options are granted each
    year and vest over various periods, these pro forma amounts may not reflect
    the full effect of applying the fair value method established by SFAS No.
    123 that would be expected if all outstanding stock option grants were
    accounted for under this method.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
12. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
    The fair value of the stock option grants in 1998, 1997 and 1996 used in
determining the pro forma net income and the basic and diluted earnings per
share amounts indicated above were estimated using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
 

 
    The expected volatility of the Company's underlying common stock and the
expected risk-free interest rate were calculated using a term commensurate with
the expected life of the options.
 
    Compensation expense related to the ESPP in 1998, 1997 and 1996, used in
determining the pro forma net income and basic and diluted earnings per share
amounts indicated above, was equal to the difference between the fair value of
the Company's common stock when issued under the ESPP and the actual price paid
by employees to acquire the common stock.
 
13. RELATED PARTIES
 
    Silicon Valley Bancshares had $955,000 and $250,000 in loans outstanding to
employees, as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. In December 1997,
Silicon Valley Bancshares loaned $250,000 to an officer of the Company to
purchase a primary residence in Northern California in connection with a
relocation agreement. The loan is interest-free, is secured by a second deed of
trust on the aforementioned residence and is payable in five annual installments
of $50,000, the first of which was made in December 1998. In January 1998, as
part of the same relocation agreement, an additional $600,000 was loaned to that
officer. This second loan is interest-free, is secured by a second deed of trust
on the aforementioned residence and is due in full in December 2002. In a
separate agreement, the Bank awarded the same officer a $250,000 bonus, payable
in five annual installments of $50,000 beginning in December 1998. In June 1998,
Silicon Valley Bancshares loaned $75,000 to another officer of the Company. The
unsecured loan accrues interest at the rate of 5.50% per annum and is payable in
three annual installments of $25,000 beginning in March 1999. Also in 1998, the
Company made an interest-free, secured loan of $80,000 to an employee of the
Bank. The Company had no other loans outstanding to related parties during 1998.
 
    The Silicon Valley Bank Foundation (the "Foundation") was established by the
Company in 1995 to maintain good corporate citizenship in its communities. The
Foundation is funded entirely by the Company, and received contributions from
the Company totaling $0.1 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996.
 
14. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK
 
    In the normal course of business, the Company uses financial instruments
with off-balance sheet risk to meet the financing needs of its customers and to
reduce its own exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and
market interest rates. These financial instruments include commitments to extend
credit, commercial and standby letters of credit, foreign exchange forward
contracts, and interest rate swap agreements. These instruments involve, to
varying degrees, elements of credit risk. Credit risk is defined as the
possibility of sustaining a loss because other parties to the financial
instrument fail to perform in accordance with the terms of the contract.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
14. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK (CONTINUED)
    COMMITMENTS TO EXTEND CREDIT
 
    A commitment to extend credit is a formal agreement to lend funds to a
customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the
agreement. Such commitments generally have fixed expiration dates, or other
termination clauses, and usually require a fee paid by the customer upon the
Company issuing the commitment. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Company
had $859.2 million and $426.1 million of unused loan commitments available to
customers, of which $126.2 million and $86.4 million had a fixed interest rate,
respectively. The Company's exposure arising from interest rate risk associated
with fixed rate loan commitments is not considered material. Commitments which
are unavailable for funding due to customers not meeting all collateral,
compliance and financial covenants required under loan commitment agreements
totaled $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The Company's potential exposure to credit loss, in the event of
nonperformance by the other party to the financial instrument, is the
contractual amount of the available unused loan commitment. The Company uses the
same credit approval and monitoring process in extending loan commitments as it
does in making loans. The actual liquidity needs or the credit risk that the
Company has experienced have historically been lower than the contractual amount
of commitments to extend credit because a significant portion of these
commitments expire without being drawn upon. The Company evaluates each
potential borrower and the necessary collateral on an individual basis. The type
of collateral varies, but may include real property, bank deposits, or business
and personal assets. The potential credit risk associated with these commitments
is considered in Management's evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for
loan losses.
 
    COMMERCIAL AND STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT
 
    Commercial and standby letters of credit represent conditional commitments
issued by the Company on behalf of a customer to guarantee the performance of
the customer to a third party when certain specified future events have
occurred. Commercial letters of credit are issued primarily for inventory
purchases by customers and are typically short-term in nature. Standby letters
of credit are typically issued as a credit enhancement for clients' contractual
obligations to third parties such as landlords. Letters of credit have fixed
expiration dates and generally require a fee paid by the customer upon the
Company issuing the commitment. Fees generated from these letters of credit are
recognized in noninterest income over the commitment period. At December 31,
1998 and 1997, commercial and standby letters of credit totaled a combined
$151.3 million and $112.9 million, respectively.
 
    The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the
same as that involved with extending loan commitments to customers, and
accordingly, the Company uses a credit evaluation process and collateral
requirements similar to those for loan commitments. The actual liquidity needs
or the credit risk that the Company has experienced have historically been lower
than the contractual amount of letters of credit issued because a significant
portion of these conditional commitments expire without being drawn upon.
 
    FOREIGN EXCHANGE FORWARD CONTRACTS
 
    The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts with customers
involved in international trade finance activities, either as the purchaser or
seller of foreign currency at a future date, depending upon the customer need.
The Company enters into offsetting foreign exchange forward contracts with
correspondent banks to hedge against the risk of fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates related to the foreign exchange forward contracts
entered into with its customers. These contracts are short-term in nature,
typically expiring in less than 90 days. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
notional amounts of these contracts totaled $77.1 million and $28.2 million,
respectively. The maximum credit exposure for counterparty nonperformance for
foreign exchange forward contracts with both customers and correspondent banks
amounted to $2.1 million at December 31, 1998 and $0.3 million at December 31,
1997. The Company has incurred no losses from counterparty nonperformance and
anticipates performance by all counterparties to such foreign exchange forward
contracts.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
14. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK (CONTINUED)
    INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS
 
    During the fourth quarter of 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate
swap agreement with a maturity of one year in order to manage its exposure to
market interest rate movements by effectively converting a portion of its
interest-earning assets from variable rate to fixed rate. The face value of the
interest rate swap at December 31, 1998 was $150.0 million. This agreement
involves the exchange of variable rate payments for fixed rate payments without
the exchange of the underlying face value. Under this agreement, the Company
will receive fixed interest payments at a rate of 7.765% and will pay variable
rate interest payments, based on the average three-month U.S. Prime Rate. The
U.S. Prime Rate at December 31, 1998 was 7.75%. Interest rate differentials paid
or received under this agreement are recognized as an adjustment to interest
income. The notional amount does not represent the amount exchanged by the
parties, and thus is not a measure of exposure of the Company. The amounts
exchanged are based on the notional amount and other terms of the swap. The
average variable rates are subject to change over time as the U.S. Prime Rate
fluctuates. The counterparty to the swap agreement is Bank of America National
Trust and Savings Association. The Company is exposed to credit losses from
counterparty nonperformance, but does not anticipate any losses from this
agreement. The Company does not hold interest rate swap agreements for trading
purposes.
 
15. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
    SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments,"
requires that the Company disclose estimated fair values for its financial
instruments. Fair value estimates, methods and assumptions, set forth below for
the Company's financial instruments, are made solely to comply with the
requirements of SFAS No. 107 and should be read in conjunction with the
Company's consolidated financial statements and related notes.
 
    Fair values are based on estimates or calculations at the transaction level
using present value techniques in instances where quoted market prices are not
available. Because broadly traded markets do not exist for most of the Company's
financial instruments, the fair value calculations attempt to incorporate the
effect of current market conditions at a specific time. Fair valuations are
Management's estimates of the values, and they are often calculated based on
current pricing policies, the economic and competitive environment, the
characteristics of the financial instruments, expected losses, and other such
factors. These calculations are subjective in nature, involve uncertainties and
matters of significant judgment, and do not include tax ramifications;
therefore, the results cannot be determined with precision, substantiated by
comparison to independent markets, and may not be realized in an actual sale or
immediate settlement of the instruments. There may be inherent weaknesses in any
calculation technique, and changes in the underlying assumptions used, including
discount rates and estimates of future cash flows, could significantly affect
the results. For all of these reasons, the aggregation of the fair value
calculations presented herein does not represent, and should not be construed to
represent, the underlying value of the Company.
 
    The following methods and assumptions have been used to estimate the fair
value of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to
estimate the value.
 
    Cash and cash equivalents: This category includes cash and due from banks,
interest-bearing deposits in other financial institutions, federal funds sold,
and securities purchased under agreement to resell. The cash equivalents are
readily convertible to known amounts of cash and present insignificant risk of
changes in value due to maturity dates of 90 days or less. For these short-term
financial instruments, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair
value.
 
    Investment securities: For investment securities classified as
available-for-sale, fair values are based on quoted market prices or dealer
quotes.
 
    Loans: The fair value of performing fixed and variable rate loans is
calculated by discounting contractual cash flows using discount rates that
reflect the Company's current pricing for loans with similar credit ratings
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
15. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
and for the same remaining maturities. Nonperforming fixed and variable rate
loans and loans classified as special mention, substandard or doubtful are
valued by discounting estimated cash flows at the effective interest rates on
the loans, and using assumptions as to the expected timing and extent of
principal recovery with no recovery assumed for contractual interest owed.
 
    Deposits: The fair value of deposits with no stated maturity, such as
noninterest-bearing demand deposits, NOW accounts and money market deposits is
equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date. The fair value of
time deposits is based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. The
discount rate is estimated using the rates currently offered by the Company for
time deposits with similar remaining maturities. The fair value of deposits does
not include the benefit that results from the low cost of funding provided by
the Company's deposits as compared to the cost of borrowing funds in the market.
 
    Off-balance sheet financial instruments: The Company has not estimated the
fair value of off-balance sheet commitments to extend credit, commercial letters
of credit and standby letters of credit. Because of the uncertainty involved in
attempting to assess the likelihood and timing of a commitment being drawn upon,
coupled with the lack of an established market for these financial instruments,
Management does not believe it is meaningful or practicable to provide an
estimate of fair value. The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and
interest rate swaps are based on the estimated amounts the Company would receive
or pay to terminate the contracts at the reporting date.
 
    Limitations: The information presented herein is based on pertinent
information available to the Company as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. Although Management is not aware of any factors that would
significantly affect the estimated fair value amounts, such amounts have not
been comprehensively revalued since the most recent year end and the estimated
fair values of these financial instruments may have changed significantly since
that point in time.
 
    The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments at December
31, 1998 and 1997 are presented below. Bracketed amounts in the estimated fair
value columns represent estimated cash outflows required to settle the
obligations at market rates as of the respective reporting dates.
 

 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
16. LEGAL MATTERS
 
    Certain lawsuits and claims arising in the ordinary course of business have
been filed or are pending against the Company and/or the Bank. Based upon
information available to the Company, its review of such claims to date and
consultation with its legal counsel, Management believes the liability relating
to these actions, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's liquidity, consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
17. REGULATORY MATTERS
 
    The Bank is subject to certain restrictions on the amount of dividends that
it may declare without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board and the
California Department of Financial Institutions. At December 31, 1998,
approximately $68.3 million of the Bank's retained earnings were available for
dividend declaration to the Company without prior regulatory approval.
 
    The Company and the Bank are subject to capital adequacy guidelines issued
by the Federal Reserve Board. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can
initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by
regulators that, if undertaken, could have a material impact on the Company's
and/or the Bank's financial condition and results of operations. Under capital
adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action,
the Company and the Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve
quantitative measures of the Company's and the Bank's balance sheet items, as
well as certain off-balance sheet items, as calculated under regulatory
accounting practices. The Company's and the Bank's capital amounts and
classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators
about components, risk weightings and other factors.
 
    Under these capital guidelines, the minimum total risk-based capital ratio
and Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio requirements are 10.0% and 6.0%,
respectively, of risk-weighted assets and certain off-balance sheet items for a
well capitalized depository institution.
 
    The Federal Reserve Board has also established minimum capital leverage
ratio guidelines for state member banks. The ratio is determined using Tier 1
capital divided by quarterly average total assets. The guidelines require a
minimum of 5.0% for a well capitalized depository institution.
 
    Management believes, as of December 31, 1998, that the Company and the Bank
meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject. As of December
31, 1998, the most recent notifications from the Federal Reserve Board
categorized the Company and the Bank as well capitalized under the regulatory
framework for prompt corrective action.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
17. REGULATORY MATTERS (CONTINUED)
 
    The following table presents the capital ratios for the Company and the
Bank, compared to the minimum regulatory capital requirements for an adequately
capitalized depository institution, as of December 31, 1998 and 1997:
 

 
18. SHAREHOLDERS' RIGHTS PLAN
 
    On October 22, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a shareholders
rights plan (the "Rights Plan") designed to protect the Company's shareholders
from various abusive takeover tactics, including attempts to acquire control of
the Company without offering a fair price to all shareholders. Under the Rights
Plan, each shareholder received a dividend of one right for each outstanding
share of common stock of the Company. The rights are attached to, and presently
only traded with, the common stock and are currently not exercisable. Except as
specified below, upon becoming exercisable, all rights holders will be entitled
to purchase from the Company 1/1000th of a share of the Company's preferred
stock at a price of $120.00.
 
    The rights become exercisable and will begin to trade separately from the
common stock of the Company upon the earlier of (i) the tenth day after a person
or group has acquired beneficial ownership of 10% or more of the outstanding
common stock of the Company or (ii) the tenth business day after a person or
group announces a tender or exchange offer, the consummation of which would
result in ownership by a person or group of 10% or more of the Company's common
stock. Each right will entitle the holder to purchase common stock of the
Company having a current market value of twice the exercise price of the right.
If the Company is acquired through a merger or other business combination
transaction or there is a sale of more than 50% of the Company's assets or
earning power, each right will entitle the holder (other than rights held by the
acquiring person) to purchase, at the exercise price, common stock of the
acquiring entity having a value of twice the exercise price at the time.
 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
18. SHAREHOLDERS' RIGHTS PLAN (CONTINUED)
    The Company's Board of Directors has the option any time after a person or
group becomes a 10% holder of the outstanding common stock of the Company to
exchange all or part of the rights (other than rights held by the acquiring
person) for shares of common stock of the Company provided that the Company may
not make such an exchange after the person becomes the beneficial owner of 50%
or more of the Company's outstanding common stock.
 
    The Company may redeem the rights for $0.001 each at any time on, or prior
to, public announcement that a person has acquired beneficial ownership of 10%
or more of the Company's common stock. The rights will expire on October 22,
2008, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged. The rights will not have any voting
rights, but will have the benefit of certain customary anti-dilution provisions.
The dividend distribution of the rights was not taxable to the Company or its
shareholders.
 
19. PARENT COMPANY ONLY CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
    The condensed balance sheets of Silicon Valley Bancshares (parent company
only) at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related condensed statements of
income and condensed statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996 are presented below. Certain reclassifications have been
made to the parent company's 1997 and 1996 financial information to conform to
the 1998 presentations. Such reclassifications had no effect on the results of
operations or shareholders' equity.
 
                            CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
 

 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
19. PARENT COMPANY ONLY CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
 
                         CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 

 
                       CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

 

                   SILICON VALLEY BANCSHARES AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
20. UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
 

 

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
    None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The information set forth under the sections titled "Proposal No.
1--Election of Directors," "Information on Executive Officers" and "Section
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" contained in the definitive
proxy statement for the Company's 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
    The information set forth under the sections titled "Information on
Executive Officers," "Report of the Executive Committee of the Board on
Executive Compensation," "Table 1--Summary Compensation Table," "Option Grants
in Last Fiscal Year," "Table 2--Aggregated Option Exercises in Last Fiscal Year
and Fiscal Year-End Option Values," "Termination Arrangements," "Return to
Shareholders Performance Graph," and "Director Compensation" contained in the
definitive proxy statement for the Company's 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
    The information set forth under the sections titled "Security Ownership of
Directors and Executive Officers" and "Security Ownership of Principal
Shareholders" contained in the definitive proxy statement for the Company's 1999
Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
    The information set forth under the section titled "Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions" in the definitive proxy statement for the Company's
1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a) 1. and 2.
    The financial statements and supplementary data contained in Item 8 of this
report are filed as part of this report.
    All schedules are omitted because of the absence of the conditions under
which they are required or because the required information is included in the
    financial statements or related notes.
 
(a) 3.
    Exhibits are listed in the Index to Exhibits beginning on page 71 of this
report.
 
(b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
    No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the quarter ended
December 31, 1998.
 

                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Dated: March 19, 1999
 

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on
the dates indicated:
 

 

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

 


 
- ------------------------
 
 (1) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Annual Report on
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.
 
 (2) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Annual Report on
     Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Annual Report
     on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.28, 10.29, 10.30, and 10.31 to the
     Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
     1996.
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.32 and 10.33 to the Company's
     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996.
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.17(a) and 10.34 to the Company's
     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 3.2 and 10.35 to the Company's
     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997.
 
 (8) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.36 and 10.37 to the Company's
     Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997.
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report
     on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 4.2, 4.3, 4.6, 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10,
     4.11, 10.38, and 10.39 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
     the quarter ended June 30, 1998.
 
(11) Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.40, 10.41 and 10.42 to the
     Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
     1998.
 

