
10-K
AMERICAN EXPRESS CO 1996 10-K





                               UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                         ---------------------------
                                 FORM 10-K
                         ---------------------------

            /X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

                                    OR

          / / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
              For the transition period from              to            

                          Commission File No. 1-7657

                          AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                   New York                           13-4922250
            (State or other jurisdiction          (I.R.S. employer
            of incorporation or organization)      identification no.)

              World Financial Center
                200 Vesey Street   
              New York, New York                         10285
       (Address of principal executive offices)        (Zip code)

     Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 640-2000

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                 Name of each exchange
             Title of each class                 on which registered
             -------------------                 ---------------------
   Common Shares (par value $.60 per Share)      New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Boston Stock Exchange
                                                 Chicago Stock Exchange
                                                 Pacific Stock Exchange

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/ No / /

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K  /X/.

Common shares of the registrant outstanding at March 10, 1997 were
472,791,925.

The aggregate market value, as of March 10, 1997, of such common shares held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $31.9 billion. 
(Aggregate market value estimated solely for the purposes of this report. 
This shall not be construed as an admission for the purposes of determining
affiliate status.)

               DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Parts I, II and IV:  Portions of Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders.

Part III:  Portions of Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 12, 1997.
========================================================================



                        
Form 10-K
Item Number

     Part I                                                  Page

1.   Business
        Travel Related Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
        American Express Financial Advisors. . . . . . . . .  13
        American Express Bank. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
        Corporate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
        Foreign Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
        Important Factors Regarding Forward-
          Looking Statements. . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  28
        Industry Segment Information and
          Classes of Similar Services. . . . . . . . . . . .  30
        Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . . . . .  31
        Employees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
 2.  Properties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
 3.  Legal Proceedings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders . .  36

     Part II

 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and
       Related Stockholder Matters . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
 6.  Selected Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
       Condition and Results of Operations . . . . . . . . .  37
 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . . . . . .  37
 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
       Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . . . . . .  37

     Part III

10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant. . .  37
11.  Executive Compensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
       and Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. . . . .  37

     Part IV

14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
       on Form 8-K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
     Signatures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
     Index to Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . .  F-1
     Consent of Independent Auditors . . . . . . . . . . . .  F-2
     Exhibit Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  E-1


                                 PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

    American Express Company (the "registrant") was founded in 1850 as a
joint stock association and was incorporated under the laws of the State of
New York in 1965.  The registrant and its subsidiaries are primarily engaged
in the business of providing travel related services, financial advisory
services and international banking services throughout the world.

                         TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES

    American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. (including its
subsidiaries, where appropriate, "TRS") provides a variety of products and
services, including, among others, the American Express-R Card, the Optima-R
Card and other consumer lending products, the American Express-R Travelers
Cheque (the "Travelers Cheque" or the "Cheque") and other stored value
products, business expense management products and services, corporate and
consumer travel products and services, magazine publishing, database
marketing and management, and merchant transaction processing, point of sale
and back office products and services.  TRS offers products and services in
over 160 countries.  In certain countries, partly owned affiliates and
independent operators offer some of these products and services under
licenses from TRS.

    TRS' business as a whole has not experienced significant seasonal
fluctuation, although Travelers Cheque sales and Travelers Cheques
outstanding tend to be greatest each year in the summer months, peaking in
the third quarter, and Card billed business tends to be moderately higher in
the fourth quarter than in other calendar quarters.

    TRS places significant importance on its trademarks and service marks and
diligently protects its intellectual property rights around the world.

    CONSUMER CARD SERVICES GROUP

    TRS offers individual consumers charge cards such as the American
Express-R Personal Card, the American Express-R Gold Card and the Platinum
Card-R, revolving credit cards such as the Optima-R Card and the American
Express Credit Card (issued outside the U.S.), and a variety of cards
sponsored by and co-branded with other corporations and institutions
(collectively, "Card" or "Cards"). Cards are currently issued in 37
currencies and permit Cardmembers to charge purchases of goods and services
in the U.S. and in most countries around the world at establishments that
have agreed to accept them.

                               - 1 -


    Charge Cards, which are marketed in the U.S. and many other countries and
carry no pre-set spending limit, are primarily designed as a method of
payment and not as a means of financing purchases of goods and services. 
Charges are approved based on a Cardmember's account history, credit record
and personal resources.  Except in the case of extended payment plans (such
as Sign & Travel-R accounts), charge Cards require payment by the Cardmember
of the full amount billed each month, and no finance charges are assessed. 
Charge Card accounts that are past due by approximately 50 days are subject,
in most cases, to a delinquency assessment and, if not brought to current
status, subject to cancellation.

     The Optima Card comprises a family of revolving credit cards marketed in
the U.S. and other countries.  The Optima Card was initially issued only to
existing charge Cardmembers.  In 1994, the Optima True Grace-SM Card was
issued in the U.S. on a stand-alone basis.  Since then, a variety of other
Optima Cards with different payment terms, grace periods and rate structures
have been made available to customers.  American Express revolving credit
cards which do not carry the Optima brand are also issued outside the U.S.

     American Express Centurion Bank ("Centurion Bank") issues the Optima
Card in the U.S. and owns most of the receivables arising from the use of
Optima Cards issued in the U.S.  In addition, Centurion Bank extends lines of
credit in association with certain charge Cards and offers unsecured loans to
Cardmembers in connection with their Sign & Travel account and Special
Purchase Account-SM. The Sign & Travel account gives qualified U.S.
Cardmembers the option of extended payments for airline, cruise and certain
prepaid travel charges that are purchased with the charge Card. The Special
Purchase Account offers qualified U.S. Cardmembers the option of extending
payment for certain charges on the charge Card in excess of a specified
amount.  In several markets outside the U.S., consumer lending activities are
engaged in by other subsidiaries of TRS, subject to local regulations.  

    Cardmembers generally are charged an annual fee, which varies based on
the type of Card, the number of Cards for each account, the currency in which
the Card is denominated and the country of residence of the Cardmember.  Many
Optima Cards are offered with no annual fee.

    Cardmembers have access to a variety of special services and programs,
depending on the type of Card, including:  the Membership Rewards-SM Program,
Global Assist-R Hotline, Buyer's Assurance-SM Protection Plan, Car Rental
Loss and Damage Insurance Plan, Travel Accident Insurance Plan and Purchase
Protection-SM Plan.  A Gold Card holder in the U.S. has access to certain
additional services, including a Year End Summary of Charges Report and a
 
                               - 2 -


lowest price guarantee on most retail purchases.  The Platinum Card, offered 
to certain Cardmembers in the U.S. and other countries, provides access to 
additional and enhanced travel, financial, insurance, personal assistance and 
other services.  Under the Express Cash program, Cardmembers can obtain cash 
or American Express Travelers Cheques 24 hours a day from automated teller
machines of participating financial institutions worldwide.  In 1996, the
Customer Relationship Statement, which had already been implemented outside
the U.S., was expanded into the U.S. for Personal, Gold and Platinum
Cardmembers to communicate special offers for merchant products and services.

    American Express Credit Corporation and its subsidiaries ("Credco")
purchase most charge Card receivables arising from the use of Cards issued in
the U.S. and in designated currencies outside the U.S.  Credco finances the
purchase of receivables principally through the issuance of commercial paper
and the sale of medium- and long-term notes.  Centurion Bank finances its
revolving credit receivables through the sale of medium-term notes,
certificates of deposit and time deposits.  TRS and Centurion Bank also fund
receivables through asset securitization programs.  The cost of funding
Cardmember receivables is a major expense of Card operations.

    The charge Card and consumer lending businesses are subject to extensive
regulation in the U.S. under a number of federal laws and regulations,
including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, which generally prohibits
discrimination in the granting and handling of credit; the Fair Credit
Reporting Act, which, among other things, regulates use by creditors of
consumer credit reports and credit prescreening practices and requires
certain disclosures when an application for credit is rejected; the Truth in
Lending Act, which, among other things, requires extensive disclosure of the
terms upon which credit is granted; the Fair Credit Billing Act, which, among
other things, regulates the manner in which billing inquiries are handled and
specifies certain billing requirements; and the Fair Credit and Charge Card
Disclosure Act, which mandates certain disclosures on credit and charge card
applications.  Federal legislation also regulates abusive debt collection
practices.  In addition, a number of states and foreign countries have
similar consumer credit protection and disclosure laws.  These laws and
regulations have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse
effect on the charge Card and consumer lending businesses either in the U.S.
or on a worldwide basis.

     On July 1, 1996, TRS' subsidiary, American Express Centurion Bank, was
consolidated with and merged into another TRS subsidiary, American Express
Deposit Corporation, a Utah-chartered, FDIC-insured financial 
institution, which was the surviving entity.  American Express Deposit
Corporation was renamed American Express Centurion Bank concurrent with
the effectiveness of the merger. Centurion Bank is a member of the

                               - 3 -


Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and is regulated, supervised
and regularly examined by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions and
the FDIC.

     In 1996, TRS introduced a number of new revolving credit Card products
and features to meet the needs of specific customer segments and to increase
consumer loans outstanding. These included the Delta-R SkyMiles-TM Credit 
Card and a gold version of such Card, the ITT-Sheraton Club Miles Card from 
American Express, the American Express-R Golf Card, the New York Knicks-R 
Card from American Express and the New York Rangers-R Card from American 
Express.  These co-branded cards offer rewards provided by the co-branded 
partners.  TRS plans to continue its strategy and offer additional co-branded 
and other Card products. TRS is continuing to make a significant investment 
in a new card processing system to allow the faster introduction of products.

    Over the past couple of years, TRS has expanded its Membership Miles-R
travel rewards program in the U.S. to include retail merchandise and gourmet
gifts and renamed the program Membership Rewards, and is offering it outside
the U.S.  Membership Rewards is an important part of TRS' strategy to
increase Cardmember spending and loyalty. Over 6 million Cardmembers in more
than 30 markets worldwide participate in the Membership Rewards program.
Enrollees now represent a significant portion of Cardmember spending.  TRS
makes payments to merchants pursuant to contractual arrangements when
Cardmembers redeem their Membership Rewards points and establishes reserves
in connection with estimated future redemptions.

     To increase both the attractiveness of the American Express network and
the number of Cards outstanding, in May 1996, American Express invited banks
and other qualified institutions to issue cards that would bear an American
Express logo and would be accepted at all merchants that accept the American
Express Card.  American Express has entered into a number of agreements with
banks and other financial institutions outside of the United States to issue
such cards including La Caixa in Spain, Sovac in France, and National
Westminster Bank, Plc in the United Kingdom (see TRS International below).
American Express also has agreed with National Westminster Bank, Plc to issue
corporate cards in the United States that will be co-branded with United
Airlines, Inc. (see page 9 for a discussion of this product).  However,
because of rules and policies of VISA USA, Inc. and MasterCard International,
Incorporated ("MasterCard") in the United States, banks which are members of
these organizations in the United States are prohibited from issuing American
Express-branded cards.  These rules and policies are currently under
investigation by the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of
Justice.

                               - 4 -


    In 1996, TRS also formed an alliance with Advanta Corporation that links
TRS' Membership Rewards program to Advanta's "Rewards Accelerator" VISA-R and
MasterCard-R cards.  VISA USA, Inc. and MasterCard have sued to prevent the
program from moving ahead. 

    TRS continued to expand its interactive service offerings on the Internet
in 1996.  Through the ExpressNet-R service on the America Online-R network
(owned by America Online, Inc.), Cardmembers may access account information,
pay their American Express Card bills and apply for small business and
consumer card products.  In addition, Cardmembers may utilize the Quicken-R
software offered by Intuit-R to view their American Express Card account
information, and a Money financial management software offered by Microsoft-R
will be available later in 1997. TRS is also implementing encryption
standards to facilitate Card acceptance for payments over the Internet.  TRS
anticipates further significant electronic payment product developments in
1997, which may include increasing use of Card acceptance over the Internet,
stored value cards, "smart cards" or other card-based or electronic forms of
payment.

    TRS encounters substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide
with respect to the charge Card and consumer lending businesses from general
purpose cards issued under revolving credit plans, particularly VISA cards
issued by members of VISA International Service Association, Inc. or VISA
USA, Inc. (collectively, "VISA"), and MasterCard cards issued by members of
MasterCard, including cards sponsored by and co-branded with AT&T Corp.,
General Electric Company, General Motors Corporation and Ford Motor Company. 
This competition exists among issuers of general purpose charge and credit
cards which bear a common brand, e.g. VISA or MasterCard (intrasystem
competition) as well as among card systems like VISA,  MasterCard and to a
lesser extent, Diners Club-R, Dean Witter's NOVUS-SM  Network and JCB
(intersystem competition).  TRS also encounters some very limited competition
from businesses that issue their own cards or otherwise extend credit to
their customers, such as retailers and airline associations.  These products
are not generally substitutes for TRS' Card products due to their limited
acceptance.  Numerous U.S. banks issuing credit cards under revolving credit
plans charge annual fees in addition to interest charges where permitted by
state law.  However, the issuer of the Discover Card on the NOVUS Network, as
well as many issuers of VISA cards and MasterCard cards, charge no annual
fees.  Certain competing issuers offer premium cards with enhanced services
or lines of credit.  Certain issuers also provide mileage credit to card
holders under airline frequent flyer programs or other types of reward
programs or rebates.

    The principal competitive factors that affect the Card business are


                               - 5 -


(i) the quality of the services and products, including rewards programs,
provided to cardmembers and participating establishments; (ii) the number,
spending characteristics and credit performance of cardmembers; (iii) the
quantity and quality of the establishments that will accept a card; (iv) the
cost of cards to cardmembers and of card acceptance to participating
establishments; (v) the terms of payment available to cardmembers and
participating establishments; (vi) the nature and quality of expense
management data capture and reporting capability; (vii) the number and
quality of other payment instruments available to cardmembers and
participating establishments; and (viii) the success of targeted marketing
and promotion campaigns.

    ESTABLISHMENT SERVICES

    Over the past several years, TRS' Establishment Services group has
focused on expanding the TRS network of merchants and increasing merchant
acceptance. In 1996, TRS added significantly more merchants to its network in
industries such as retail, supermarkets,  tele-communications, government and
health care.  The merchant network in the United States can now accommodate
more than 91 percent of American Express Cardmembers' general purpose plastic
spending, up from 87 percent in 1995. TRS' objective is to achieve merchant
coverage that is at virtual parity with bankcard networks.

    As a merchant processor, TRS accepts and processes from each
participating establishment the charges arising from Cardmember purchases at
a discount that varies with the type of participating establishment, the
charge volume, the timing and method of payment to the establishment, the
method of submission of charges and, in certain instances, the average charge
amount and the amount of information provided.  TRS generally charges higher
discount rates to participating establishments than its competitors.  As a
result, TRS has encountered complaints from some establishments, as well as
suppression of the Card's use, although recently both have declined
substantially.

    TRS has focused on understanding and addressing key factors that
influence merchant satisfaction.  TRS has adjusted its discount structure in
certain industries and locations.  In addition, the Establishment Services
Group has concentrated on developing products and services that add value and
deepen the relationship with merchants to enhance the value of Card
acceptance to merchants. Some of these products and services include new
point-of-sale and merchant back-office technology to simplify and streamline
acceptance of charge and credit card transactions.  Several new information
products were also piloted in 1996, including Express Rewards-SM, a program
that allows merchants to reward valued customers with a special offer or
discount at the time of purchase.

                               - 6 -


    STORED VALUE GROUP

    In light of changing technologies and customer needs, the former
Travelers Cheque Group has expanded its product offerings to other 
"stored value" products and is now called the Stored Value Group.  Its
mission is to replace cash with safe, convenient stored value payment systems
that satisfy specific customer needs.  

    In 1996, the Stored Value Group launched the IncentiveFunds-SM card, a
pre-paid card program to assist corporations in providing incentives to their
employees or customers.  It also signed an agreement with the U.S. Postal
Service to roll-out nationally the FirstClass PhoneCard and issued
PhoneFunds-SM sold through TRS travel offices and U.S. National Park Visitors
Centers or by calling a toll-free number.  The Stored Value Group also
initiated a number of pilots in 1996 in conjunction with TRS' Government
Service Group.  In addition, through a license with Banksys, a global company
owned by all Belgian retail banks, the Stored Value Group gained access to a
leading electronic purse program called "Proton" that can be used to develop
products that replace cash for various types of transactions.

    The core of the Stored Value Group's business, however, continues to be
American Express Travelers Cheques, which are sold as a safe and convenient
alternative to currency.  The Cheque, a negotiable instrument, has no
expiration date and is payable by the issuer in the currency of issuance when
presented for the purchase of goods and services or for redemption. 
Travelers Cheques are issued directly by TRS, or through joint venture
companies in which TRS holds an equity interest, in ten currencies.

    American Express Travelers Cheques are sold through a broad network of
outlets worldwide, including travel offices of TRS, its affiliates and
representatives, travel agents, commercial banks, savings banks, savings and
loan associations, credit unions and other financial, travel and commercial
businesses.  TRS generally compensates selling agents for their sale of
Travelers Cheques.
    
    The proceeds from sales of Cheques issued by TRS are invested
predominantly in highly-rated debt securities consisting primarily of
intermediate- and long-term state and municipal obligations.  The investment
of these proceeds is regulated by various state laws.

     Although the registrant believes that TRS is the leading issuer of
travelers checks, the growth in sales of this product by TRS has been
declining over the past few years.  Consumers have a choice of many forms of
competitive payment instruments, including other brands of travelers checks,
cash, credit and debit cards and national and international automated teller
machine networks.  TRS expects increasing developments in stored value cards,
smart cards and other electronic forms of payment, and plans to offer a range
 


                               - 7 -


of new stored value and other products in the future to compete in this area.
The principal competitive factors affecting the travelers check industry are 
(i) the acceptability of the checks throughout the world as an alternative to
currency; (ii) the ability to service satisfactorily the check purchaser if
the checks are lost or stolen; (iii) the compensation paid to, and frequency
of settlement by, selling agents; (iv) the availability to the consumer of
other forms of payment; (v) the accessibility of travelers check sales and
refunds; (vi) the success of marketing and promotion campaigns; and (vii) the
amount of the fee charged to the consumer.  Other competitive factors
affecting stored value products generally include (a) the quality and rate of
introduction of stored value products of competitors; (b) the rate of
consumer acceptance of new products; (c) the rate of deployment of smartcard
systems worldwide; (d) the interoperability of smartcard systems; (e) the
relative ability of an issuer to control fraud; and (f) the development of
governmental regulations relating to stored value products.

    CORPORATE SERVICES, SMALL BUSINESS SERVICES AND TRAVEL 

    TRS, through its Corporate Services Group, Small Business Services Group
and Travel business, is the leading provider to large and small businesses of
expense management systems and travel services. 

    The Corporate Services Group ("CSG") provides charge card expense
management services to large and mid-sized companies for travel and
entertainment spending.  Companies are offered these services through the
American Express Corporate Card, which is a charge card issued to individuals
through a corporate account established by their employer for business
purposes.  

    CSG integrates the Corporate Card and business travel services in the
U.S. and certain foreign countries to meet the competition for the business
traveler and to provide client companies with a customized approach to
managing their travel and entertainment budgets.  Clients are provided an
information package to plan, account for and control travel and entertainment
expenses, including a state-of-the-art expense management system which
captures and reconciles expense report data with Corporate Card charge data. 
Other software permits cardholders who are members of large corporate
accounts to access current account data by E-mail to create quickly their own
expense reports and obtain electronic and check reimbursement through a
Direct Deposit Services program.

    TRS continued to achieve substantial growth in Corporate Services in
1996; however, competitors have increased their focus on the Corporate Card
business.  For a discussion of competition relating to the Card business, see
pages 5 and 6 above.

 


                               - 8 -


    TRS also provides American Express Government Card charge card services
to federal employees who travel on official government business. In 1996, TRS
launched the GovernmentFunds Card, a per diem payment product used on the
American Express merchant network and at Express Cash machines by three 
federal government agencies for employees, guests and consultants traveling 
on official government business in the U.S.  In addition, the American Express
Corporate Card is the business expense management system used by 36 of the 50 
states of the United States. 

    TRS also offers products to enhance client company management of business
expenses, other than travel and entertainment expenses, through the Corporate
Purchasing Card. This product assists large companies in managing indirect
spending including traditional purchasing administration expenses. Employees
can use the Purchasing Card to order directly from manufacturers and
suppliers, rather than using the traditional system of requisitions, purchase
orders and invoices and retail store purchasing.  TRS pays the suppliers and
submits a single monthly billing statement to the company.  Due to the needs
of companies in implementing the Purchasing Card, growth in this product has
been slower than originally planned.

     In 1996, TRS extended its network strategy to the Corporate Card
product.  United Airlines, Inc. ("United") and National Westminster Bank, Plc
("NatWest"), New York branch, agreed to launch a new United Airlines
Corporate Card that operates on the American Express merchant network. 
United intends to market the non-revolving charge card to large and mid-sized
companies as a cost control tool for corporate travel expenses.  The new
Corporate Card, expected to be issued in the second quarter of 1997,
represents American Express's first U.S. "network card" (see page 4 for a
discussion of the network).  NatWest is the issuer of the card, which will be
usable at all merchants that accept American Express Cards worldwide.  In
1996, TRS also concluded an agreement to offer a co-branded Corporate Card
with Qantas Airways, Ltd. (see TRS International below).

    TRS, through its Small Business Services Group, is also the leading
provider of expense management services to small businesses (i.e., less than
100 employees). TRS has traditionally served the needs of small businesses
with a portfolio of charge card products and a Privileged Rates program which
includes specially negotiated rates on services such as car rental, courier,
gasoline, hotel and office services.

   In 1996, TRS increased its focus on small businesses by offering a
portfolio of new and redesigned products.  It introduced a Corporate Gold
Card and two new revolving credit cards -- the Gold Corporate


                               - 9 - 


Optima-R Card and the Delta Skymiles-R Corporate Credit Card.  It also
provided access to unsecured lines of credit from $5,000 to $50,000 available
on a pre-approved basis from TRS and two bank partners - Wells Fargo and Banc
One -- to existing small business charge card clients.  TRS also launched an
equipment financing joint venture with AT&T Commercial Finance Corporation,
a subsidiary of AT&T Capital Corporation, for the purchase of business
equipment by small businesses, and piloted the creation of American Express
Small Business Centers in key cities in the U.S. to provide financial and
tax-related advice in conjunction with the registrant's newly formed
Workplace Financial Services Group (see page 19 for a discussion of such
group). TRS continued to achieve substantial growth in small business
services in 1996. 

    TRS provides a wide variety of travel services to customers traveling for
business and personal purposes and is the leading business travel provider
worldwide.  Travel services include trip planning, reservations, ticketing
and other incidental services.  In addition, for business travel accounts,
TRS provides corporate travel policy consultation and management information
systems and group and incentive travel services.  TRS receives commissions
and fees for travel bookings and arrangements from airlines, hotels, car
rental companies and other travel suppliers, service fees for certain
transactions such as re-ticketing, courier services and complex itineraries
and management fees from certain business travel accounts.  

      TRS' retail travel network of more than 1700 owned and representative
offices is important in supporting the American Express brand and providing
customer service throughout the world.  TRS continually evaluates this
structure to determine the best way to leverage the travel network strength. 
At the same time, TRS is developing ways to better serve the travel consumer,
including 1-800-type services, and on-line products and services discussed
below.

    More than 30,000 travel agents and direct sales by airlines and travel
suppliers in the U.S. and abroad provide vigorous competition.  It is mainly
based on service, convenience and proximity to the customer and has increased
due to several factors in recent years, including the acquisition of
independent agencies by larger travel companies. Travel agency groups and
consortia also have increased in size, enabling participating independent
agencies to be more competitive in providing travel services to regional and
national business travel clients and in other activities.  In addition, many
companies have established in-house business travel departments.

   More recently, changes in the travel agent compensation structure, such as
the limits on airfare commissions, have been imposed by airlines in an
environment of heightened competition, which has caused some independent
agencies to go out of business. Consolidation of travel agencies is



                               - 10 -



likely to continue as agencies seek to better serve national and multinational
business travel clients and negotiate more effectively with the airlines
with respect to computer reservation systems and compensation and pricing
arrangements. Customers may increasingly seek alternative channels to
make travel arrangements, such as on-line vendors or "ticketless" airline
services that require booking directly with the airlines. It is also expected
that travel agencies will continue to look for expense reduction
opportunities. 
    
     TRS has been actively developing new cost effective ways to serve travel
customers.  In 1996, in addition to expanding Express Reservations on
ExpressNet, which allows customers to make airline reservations and order
tickets on-line, TRS introduced a site on the World Wide Web for consumer
travel reservations and launched American Express-R Expense Manager, an
electronic expense voucher system for Corporate Card customers in the U.S. 
TRS and Microsoft formed a partnership to provide on-line travel reservation
services for corporations over the Internet and Intranets, which will enter
pilot operations in the third quarter of 1997.  TRS has a two-year exclusive
agreement to market the services.  TRS joined with IBM and American Airlines
in 1996 to test the use of smart-card technology for ticketless travel. 

    TRS INTERNATIONAL

    Internationally, TRS is focusing on expanding its proprietary card
business and network alliances in key markets, enlarging its network of
merchants and reducing expenses for re-investment in its businesses abroad. 
For a discussion of certain reengineering initiatives being implemented by
TRS in 1997, a significant portion of which will affect TRS International,
see page 23 of the registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is
incorporated by reference herein. TRS intends to accelerate the growth of its
operations outside of the U.S.

    In 1996, TRS continued to expand its alliances abroad with other
institutions in the Card business.  It signed Independent Operator Agreements
with Akbank in Turkey, the Bank of Ireland in Ireland and Credomatic
International Corporation in Central America, establishing them as charge
Card issuers and merchant acquirers and servicers in their respective
markets.  During the last year, TRS also signed Network Card Issuer
Agreements with Sovac in France, La Caixa in Spain and Banco Credito Nacional
and Sony Card Administradora Ltd. in Brazil and National Westminster Bank,
Plc in the United Kingdom under which these entities issue cards which carry
an American Express logo and are accepted worldwide on the American Express
merchant network. TRS also introduced co-branded cards with Accor in France
and Wrightson in New Zealand and concluded an agreement to issue a co-branded



                               - 11 -


corporate card with Qantas Air Lines in Australia.  In Canada, TRS entered a 
co-branding agreement with Loyalty Management Group Canada, Inc. under which 
it issues the American Express AIR MILES Credit Card.  At the end of 1996, 
TRS had alliances with banks and other financial organizations in 14 
countries. TRS expects to continue establishing similar types of arrangements 
outside the U.S. 

    In 1996, TRS also had successful launches of its own proprietary
revolving credit cards in Hong Kong, Canada and Australia.  Similar products
continue to be tested in other countries.  In addition, TRS has expanded
outside the U.S. programs such as Membership Rewards and Customer
Relationship Statements.

    In January 1996, TRS filed a complaint with the European Commission
against the contemplated adoption by VISA International Service Association,
Inc. of a by-law that would result in the automatic termination of
Association membership of any member bank issuing the Card.  The European
Commission in June 1996 issued a statement indicating its view that the
proposed by-law, if adopted, would infringe European Union competition rules. 
VISA thereupon announced that it would allow each of its regions, other than
the United States where the by-law exists, to make its own decision as to the
adoption of a rule having the effect of the proposed by-law.  VISA's European
Union regional board determined not to adopt the rule.  In September 1996,
TRS filed complaints against VISA (and in two cases against MasterCard as
well) with competition authorities in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia and
Mexico, and requested investigation by the Puerto Rico Department of Justice,
to forestall the formal adoption and application of this rule in the Latin
American and Caribbean region.  In October, VISA announced it did not intend
to consider the adoption of the proposed by-law for VISA Association banks in
Latin America and the Caribbean. The complaints in the Latin American markets
were dismissed on the basis of VISA's announcement or remain pending.

    OTHER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

    American Express Relationship Services ("AERS") delivers nontraditional
American Express products and services which address the information, access,
security and telecommunications needs of new and existing customers.  AERS
includes TRS' existing Merchandise Services and Fee Services units as well as
new telecommunications and business development units.  In addition to
offering credit card registry and travel and credit insurance products, AERS
offers merchandise directly to Cardmembers, who may elect to pay in
installments with no finance charges.  Products can now also be purchased by
computer through America Online.  In 1996, AERS also began offering
discounted long-distance phone services to merchants in the American Express
Card network and to small business owners.  AERS also entered the student
loan business with a majority investment in The Educational Funding Company
and made a minority investment in Consumers Edge, an Internet service that
helps consumers make purchasing decisions.

                               - 12 -



    TRS publishes Travel & Leisure-R, Food & Wine-R, Departures-TM and Your
Company-TM magazines.

    TRS provides through its subsidiary, Epsilon Data Management, Inc.,
proprietary database marketing and management.

    Various financial products are also offered to Cardmembers through
American Express Financial Direct (see pages 18 and 19 for a discussion of
this business).
 
                   AMERICAN EXPRESS FINANCIAL ADVISORS

    American Express Financial Corporation ("AEFC") provides a variety of
financial products and services to help individuals, businesses and
institutions establish and achieve their financial goals.  AEFC's products
and services include financial planning and advice, insurance 
and annuities, a variety of investment products, including investment
certificates, mutual funds and limited partnerships, investment advisory
services, trust and employee plan administration services, tax preparation
and bookkeeping services, personal auto and homeowner's insurance and retail
securities brokerage services.  At December 31, 1996, American Express
Financial Advisors Inc. ("AXP Advisors"), AEFC's principal marketing
subsidiary, maintained a nationwide financial planning field force of 8,340
persons.  

    DISTRIBUTION OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

    AXP Advisors offers financial planning and investment advisory services
(for which it charges a fee) to individuals and business owners which address
six basic areas of financial planning:  financial position, protection,
investment, income tax, retirement and estate planning, as well as asset
allocation.  AXP Advisors' financial advisors provide clients with
recommendations from the more than 100 products distributed by subsidiaries
and affiliates of AEFC as well as products of approved third parties.

    First-year financial advisors are compensated primarily by salary;
veteran financial advisors receive compensation based largely on sales.  The
compensation system is structured to encourage advisor retention and product
persistency, while adding stability to the financial advisor's income.  In
attracting and retaining members of the field force, AXP Advisors competes
with financial planning firms, insurance companies, securities broker-dealers
and other financial institutions.  AXP Advisors continued a major initiative,
formerly called "IDS 1994", to improve advisor retention and client
satisfaction.  In connection with this program, in 1996, AXP Advisors
continued testing Advisor Link-SM which consists, in part, of certain
computer-based tools for advisors, including a new desktop financial planning
system, and plans to commence implementation of such tools nationwide in
1997.  It also continued to implement certain organizational changes,
including a new field management structure, asset-based compensation and a
new recruitment and selection process.

                               - 13 -


    The use of a dedicated field force may entail higher initial costs than
other forms of marketing, such as direct-response or independent agency
distribution.  However, AXP Advisors believes that its ability to provide
broad-based integrated services on a relationship basis is a competitive
advantage.  At the same time, AXP Advisors recognizes that it needs to
continue its efforts to increase the size of its dedicated field force due to
its main competitors' larger sales forces and more developed alternative
distribution channels.

    In addition to marketing through a dedicated sales force, AXP Advisors is
actively pursuing alternative approaches to distribute its financial planning
services and investment, insurance and annuity products, including networking
arrangements with community banks, credit unions and lending entities in the
Farm Credit System. 

    AXP Advisors does business as a broker-dealer and investment advisor in
all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.  AEFC and AXP
Advisors are registered as broker-dealers and investment advisors regulated
by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and are members of the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD").  AXP Advisors'
financial advisors must obtain state and NASD licenses required for the
businesses.

    AXP Advisors has experienced, and believes it will continue to encounter,
increased regulatory oversight of the securities and commodities industries 
at all levels.  The SEC, self-regulatory organizations and state securities 
commissions may conduct administrative proceedings, which may result in 
censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension or 
expulsion of a broker-dealer or an investment advisor and its officers or 
employees.

    Competition in the financial services industry focuses primarily on cost,
investment performance, yield, convenience, service, reliability, safety and
distribution system.  Competition in the financial services market is very
intense, and AEFC competes with a variety of financial institutions such as
banks, securities brokers, mutual funds and insurance companies, whose
products and services increasingly cross over the traditional lines that
previously differentiated one type of institution from another.  Reflecting
the competitive environment, certain financial institutions have continued to
seek to hire AXP Advisors' financial advisors.

    AEFC's business does not as a whole experience significant seasonal
fluctuations.

    INSURANCE AND ANNUITIES

    AEFC's insurance business is carried on primarily by IDS Life Insurance
Company ("IDS Life"), a stock life insurance company organized under the laws
of the State of Minnesota.  IDS Life is a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEFC 
and serves all states except New York.  IDS Life believes it is the 
fifteenth largest insurance company in the U.S., with consolidated assets 
at December 31, 1996 of $47.3 billion.  IDS Life Insurance Company of New York

                               - 14 -


is a wholly-owned subsidiary of IDS Life and serves New York State residents.
IDS Life also owns American Enterprise Life Insurance Company ("American 
Enterprise Life"), which issues fixed and variable dollar annuity contracts 
for sale through banks, thrift institutions and stock brokerages. American 
Centurion Life Assurance Company ("American Centurion Life") is an IDS Life 
subsidiary that offers fixed and variable annuities to American Express 
Cardmembers and others in New York, as well as fixed and variable annuities 
for sale through banks, thrift institutions and stock brokerages in New York.
IDS Life owns American Partners Life Insurance Company ("American Partners 
Life"), which offers fixed and variable annuity contracts to American Express 
Cardmembers and others who reside in states other than New York.  

    IDS Life's products include whole life, universal life (fixed and
variable), single premium life and term products (including waiver of premium
and accidental death benefits), disability income and long-term care
insurance.  IDS Life is one of the nation's largest issuers of single premium
and flexible premium deferred annuities on both a fixed and variable dollar
basis.  Immediate annuities are offered as well.  IDS Life markets variable
annuity contracts designed for retirement plans.

    IDS Life's fixed deferred annuities guarantee a relatively low annual
interest rate during the accumulation period (the time before annuity
payments begin).  However, the company has the option of paying a higher rate
reflective of current market rates.  IDS Life also offers a variable annuity,
the "Flexible Portfolio Annuity," in which the purchaser may choose between
mutual funds, with portfolios of common stocks, bonds, managed assets and/or
short-term securities, and IDS Life's "general account" as the underlying
investment vehicle. Over the past five years, IDS Life's variable annuity
sales have had an increasing impact on total annuity sales.

    IDS Life, American Enterprise Life and American Partners Life are subject
to comprehensive regulation by the Minnesota Department of Commerce
(Insurance Division), the Indiana Department of Insurance, and the Arizona
Department of Insurance, respectively.  American Centurion Life and IDS Life
Insurance Company of New York are regulated by the New York Department of
Insurance.  The laws of the other states in which these companies do business
also regulate such matters as the licensing of sales personnel and, in some
cases, the contents of insurance policies.  The purpose of such regulation
and supervision is primarily to protect the interests of policyholders. 
Virtually all states also mandate participation in insurance guaranty
associations, which assess insurance companies in order to fund claims of
policyholders of insolvent insurance companies.  On the federal level, there
is periodic interest in enacting new regulations relating to various aspects
of the insurance industry including taxation and accounting procedures, as
well as the treatment of persons differently because of sex, with respect to
terms, conditions, rates or benefits of an insurance contract.  New federal
regulation in any of these areas could potentially have an adverse effect
upon AEFC's insurance subsidiaries.

                                - 15 -


    As a distributor of variable annuity and life insurance contracts, IDS
Life is registered as a broker-dealer and is a member of the NASD.
As investment manager of various investment companies, IDS Life is registered
as an investment advisor under applicable federal requirements.

    IDS Property Casualty Insurance Company ("IDS Property Casualty")
provides personal auto and homeowner's coverage to clients in 30 states. 
This insurance is also underwritten by AMEX Assurance Company, a subsidiary
of the registrant, and reinsured by IDS Property Casualty.  IDS Property
Casualty is regulated by the Commissioner of Insurance for Wisconsin.  AMEX
Assurance Company, which also provides certain American Express Card related
insurance products, is regulated by the Commissioner of Insurance for
Illinois.

    The insurance and annuity business is highly competitive, and IDS Life's
competitors consist of both stock and mutual insurance companies. 
Competitive factors applicable to the insurance business include the interest
rates credited to its products, the charges deducted from the cash values of
such products, the financial strength of the organization and the services
provided to policyholders.

    INVESTMENT CERTIFICATES

    IDS Certificate Company ("IDSC"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEFC,
issues face-amount investment certificates.  IDSC is registered as an
investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  IDSC currently
offers nine types of face-amount certificates.  Owners of IDSC certificates
are entitled to receive, at maturity, a stated amount of money equal to the
aggregate investments in the certificate plus interest at rates declared from
time to time by IDSC.  In addition, persons owning one type of certificate
may have their interest calculated in whole or in part based on any upward
movement in a broad-based stock market index.  The certificates issued by
IDSC are not insured by any government agency.  AEFC acts as investment
manager for IDSC.  IDSC's certificates are sold primarily by AXP Advisors'
field force.  Certificates are also marketed by American Express Bank Ltd. to
its foreign customers.

    IDSC is the largest issuer of face-amount certificates in the U.S.  Such
certificates compete, however, with many other investments offered by banks,
savings and loan associations, credit unions, mutual funds, insurance
companies and similar financial institutions, which may be viewed by
potential customers as offering a comparable or superior combination of
safety and return on investment.
                                       
    MUTUAL FUNDS

    AXP Advisors offers a variety of mutual funds, for which it acts as


                               - 16 -


principal underwriter (distributor of shares).  AEFC acts as investment
manager and performs various administrative services.  The "IDS MUTUAL FUND
GROUP" consists of 38 retail mutual funds, with varied investment 
objectives, and includes, for example, money market, tax-exempt, bond and
stock funds.  The IDS MUTUAL FUND GROUP, with combined net assets at December
31, 1996 of $58.1 billion, was the thirteenth largest mutual fund
organization in the U.S. and, excluding money market funds, was the
ninth largest.  For most funds, shares are sold in three classes.  Class A
shares are sold at net asset value plus any applicable sales charge.  The
maximum sales charge is five percent of the offering price with reduced sales
charges for larger purchases.  Class B shares are sold with a rear load.  The
maximum sales charge is five percent declining to no charge for shares held
over six years.  Class Y shares are sold to institutional clients with no
load.  Fifteen of the IDS funds are structured as feeder funds investing in
the Preferred Master Trust Group, a group of fifteen master funds, advised by
AEFC.  A second family of fifteen funds, the Strategist Funds, distributed by
American Express Service Corporation, also invests in the Preferred Master
Trust Group.  This structure provides for potential development of additional
channels of distribution.

    In addition to full-commission and discount brokerage firms, competitors
include other financial institutions, such as banks and insurance companies. 
Recent growth in the market has increased the number of competitors in the
industry.  Some competitors are larger, more diversified and offer a greater
number of products, and may have an advantage in their ability to attract and
retain customers on the basis of one-stop shopping.  The competitive factors
affecting the sale of mutual funds include sales charges ("loads") paid,
administrative expenses, services received, investment performance, the
variety of products and services offered and the convenience to the investor. 
The funds compete with other investment products, including funds that have
no sales charge (known as "no load" funds), and with funds distributed
through independent brokerage firms, as well as with those distributed by
other "exclusive" sales forces.

    OTHER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

    IDS Advisory Group Inc. ("IDSA"), a subsidiary of AEFC, provides
investment management services for pension, profit sharing, employee savings
and endowment funds of large- and medium-sized businesses and other
institutions ("institutional clients").  At December 31, 1996, IDSA managed
securities portfolios totaling $14.1 billion for 223 accounts.  International
or global investment management is offered to U.S.-based institutional
clients by IDS International, Inc., a U.S. company with offices in London,
and to non-U.S. based institutional clients by IDS Fund Management Ltd., an
English company, with offices in Hong Kong, Singapore and London.  At
December 31, 1996, IDS  International, Inc. managed securities portfolios
totaling $6.1 billion for 30 accounts; and IDS Fund Management Ltd. managed
securities portfolios totaling $2.0 billion for 29 accounts.  IDS
International, Inc. and IDS Fund Management Ltd. are wholly-owned
subsidiaries of AEFC.


                               - 17 -


    AXP Advisors also offers investment management services for wealthy
individuals and small institutions.  IDS Wealth Management Service offers a
wrap program marketed to wealthy individuals through AXP Advisors' financial
advisors and marketing employees and third-party referrals.  American Express
Strategic Portfolio Services offers a mutual fund wrap program to wealthy
individuals.  Portfolio Management Group ("PMG") offers discretionary
investment management services to the above types of clients with account
sizes between $1 million and $10 million.  As of December 31, 1996, PMG
managed securities portfolios totaling $898 million for 132 accounts.  IDS
Wealth Management Service, American Express Strategic Portfolio Services and
PMG are operating divisions of AXP Advisors.

    American Express Trust Company ("AETC") provides trustee, custodial,
recordkeeping and investment management services for pension, profit sharing,
401(k) and other qualified and non-qualified employee benefit plans.  AETC,
through its personal trust division, offers trust services to individuals and
organizations.  AETC is trustee of over 340 benefit plans which represent 
approximately $12 billion in assets and 613,000 participants.  AETC has 
assets under custody in excess of $84 billion and provides non-trusteed, 
investment management of assets in excess of $5 billion.  AETC is regulated 
by the Minnesota Department of Commerce (Banking Division).

    AXP Advisors distributes a variety of real estate limited partnership
investments issued by other companies.  AXP Advisors also distributes from
time to time managed futures limited partnerships in which an AEFC subsidiary
is a co-general partner.  

    American Express Tax and Business Services Inc., a subsidiary of AEFC,
offers tax planning, tax preparation and small business consulting services
to clients in 45 locations in 20 states, and expects to expand this business
through acquisitions in the future.

    In 1996, AEFC continued to expand its securities brokerage services. 
American Express Securities Services, a division of AXP Advisors, holds over
$3 billion in assets for clients.  American Enterprise Investment Services
Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of AEFC, provides securities execution and
clearance services for approximately 142,000 retail and institutional clients
of American Express Securities Services.  American Enterprise Investment
Services Inc. is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, is a member of
the NASD and the Chicago Stock Exchange and is registered with appropriate
states.

    The registrant and AXP Advisors have developed a separate distribution
system operating under the name American Express Financial Direct ("AEFD"),
which is complementary to the existing system of AXP Advisors and which is
intended to broaden the registrant's presence in the financial services
industry and its customer base. Products developed by AXP Advisors, as well
as from other businesses of the registrant and selected outside vendors,

                               - 18 -


are offered through AEFD and distributed by American Express Service 
Corporation and other affiliates, including payment, credit, insurance and 
investment products such as no load mutual funds from 12 leading fund 
families (including the Strategist Funds from American Express referred 
to below); brokerage services over the Internet or through telephone or 
mail; money market funds; certificates of deposit; and annuities.  The 
Strategist family of mutual funds, advised by AEFC and distributed by 
American Express Service Corporation, is offered through AEFD, and includes 
15 funds with varied investment objectives (for example, tax-exempt, bond and 
stock funds). The AEFD product line is complemented by Investment Rewards-SM, 
which provides investing points for purchases in customers' investment 
management accounts. AEFD uses direct marketing, financial consultants and 
on-line services to help prospects and clients select appropriate products 
and services.

    In 1996, the registrant and AXP Advisors also launched Workplace
Financial Services, a new organization that provides financial products and
services to employees at their places of work.  In forming this new 
business, a number of existing businesses were combined, including 401(k),
retirement and other benefits services, tax and business services, securities
brokerage and financial education services.


                         AMERICAN EXPRESS BANK

    The registrant's wholly-owned subsidiary, American Express Bank Ltd.
(together with its subsidiaries, where appropriate, "AEB"), offers products
that meet the financial service needs of three client groups: corporations,
financial institutions and affluent individuals.  AEB does not directly or
indirectly do business in the U.S. except as an incident to its activities
outside the U.S.  Accordingly, the following discussion relating to AEB
generally does not distinguish between U.S. and non-U.S. based activities.

    AEB's five primary business lines are commercial, correspondent and
private banking, personal financial services and global trading.  Commercial
banking is provided to corporations principally in emerging markets and
includes trade finance and working capital loans.  Correspondent banking
serves leading local banks primarily in emerging markets and includes
transaction payments and a wide range of trade finance products such as
letters of credit and payment guarantees, collections, check clearing and
bankers acceptances.  Private banking focuses on wealthy entrepreneurs by
providing such customers with investment management, trust and estate
planning, deposit instruments and secured lending.  Personal financial
services provides consumer products in direct response to specific financial
needs of retail customers and includes interest-bearing deposits, unsecured
lines of credit, installment loans and money market funds.  Through global
trading, AEB provides treasury and capital market products and services,
including foreign exchange, foreign exchange options, derivatives and
trading, with a focus on emerging markets.

                               - 19 -


    In certain countries outside the U.S. and Canada, in some cases by
arrangement with TRS, AEB provides travel related services consisting of
Card, travel and Travelers Cheque products.  In 1996, AEB also began to
implement its strategy of working more closely with other parts of the
registrant while building its core capabilities.  AXP Advisors has contracted
with AEB to manage most of AEB's Worldfolio and Epic mutual funds. AEB also
has contracted with IDSC to market its investment certificates, and TRS makes
Platinum Cards available to AEB's private banking clients.  In addition, the
Epic mutual funds are being selectively marketed to TRS Cardmembers outside
the U.S.  In select countries, AEB also markets a wide range of investment,
savings and credit products to TRS Cardmembers. 

    In 1996 AEB made progress in rebuilding the relationship manager force in
private banking, and increased loan syndication capabilities for the
commercial and correspondent banking businesses.

    In part because of a structure that lacks scale in many markets, AEB
continues to focus on initiatives to reduce and control its expense base
worldwide. In 1994, AEB entered into a 10-year contract with Electronic Data
Systems Corporation for the outsourcing of AEB's global systems support and
development and data processing functions.

    AEB has a global network with offices in 36 countries.  Its international
headquarters is located in New York City.  It maintains international banking
agencies in New York City and Miami, Florida.  Its wholly-owned Edge Act
subsidiary, American Express Bank International ("AEBI"), is also
headquartered in New York City and has branches in New York City and Miami.

    SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
    
    AEB's prior years' financial information has been restated to reflect the
transfer in 1994 of certain international consumer financial services
businesses from TRS.

    AEB provides banking services to the registrant and its subsidiaries. 
AEB is only one of many international and local banks used by the registrant
and its other subsidiaries, which constitute only a few of AEB's many
customers.  

    AEB's 1996 total assets of $12.3 billion were unchanged compared with
1995.  Liquid assets, consisting of cash and deposits with banks, trading
account assets and investments, were $4.5 billion at both December 31, 1996
and December 31, 1995.






                               - 20 -



   The following table sets forth a summary of financial data for AEB
at and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996
(dollars in millions):
                                               1996     1995     1994      
                                               ----     ----     ----
Net financial revenues                         $591     $643     $652    
Noninterest expenses                            463      521      525
Net income                                       68       77       80
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and deposits with banks                  1,709    1,992    2,605   
Investments                                   2,835    2,537    2,765   
Loans, net                                    5,760    5,317    4,881   
Total assets                                 12,350   12,324   13,291  
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Customers' deposits                           8,653    8,480    9,103
Shareholder's equity (a)                        799      837      758     
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Return on average assets                      0.57%    0.59%    0.54%  
Return on average common equity (b)           9.22%    9.99%   10.89%  
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total loans/deposits from customers          67.92%   64.00%   54.81%  
Average common equity/average
  assets (b)                                  5.82%    5.57%    4.71%  
Risk-based capital ratios:
  Tier 1                                       8.8%     8.9%     7.5%    
  Total                                       12.5%    13.0%    14.7%   
Leverage ratio                                 5.6%     5.8%     4.8%  
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Average interest rates earned: (c)
  Loans (d)                                    8.48%   8.68%    7.58%   
  Investments (e)                              8.57%   8.71%    9.54%   
  Deposits with banks                          7.52%   6.65%    5.73%   
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total interest-earning assets (e)              8.25%   8.15%    7.62%   
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Average interest rates paid: (c)        
  Deposits from customers                      6.28%   6.10%    5.41%   
  Borrowed funds, including long-term 
    debt                                       6.66%   5.55%    4.99%   
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total interest-bearing liabilities             6.33%   6.00%    5.35%   
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net interest income/total average
  interest-earning assets (e)                  3.03%   2.88%    2.85%   
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
(a)    AEB declared and paid a special dividend of $75 million to the
       registrant on January 31, 1996.
(b)    ROE is calculated excluding the effect of SFAS No. 115.
(c)    Based upon average balances and related interest income and 
       expense, including the effect of interest rate products where 
       appropriate and transactions with related parties.
(d)    Interest rates have been calculated based upon average total 
       loans, including those on nonperforming status.
(e)    On a tax equivalent basis.

                               - 21 -


  The following tables set forth the composition of AEB's loan portfolio at
year end for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 1996
(millions):

By Geographical Region (a)     1996     1995   1994   1993   1992  
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Asia/Pacific                  $2,543  $2,151 $2,144 $2,186 $1,792 
Europe                           821     876    903  1,091  1,177  
Indian Subcontinent              833     970    721    850    908   
Latin America                    916     617    589    749    675    
North America                     67      76     81    283    382   
Middle East                      580     614    345    368    357   
Africa                           117     124    207     87     65     
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                         $5,877  $5,428 $4,990 $5,614 $5,356 
========================================================================
               ----------------------
                      Due After
                      1 Year
               Due    Through Due
By Type        Within 5       After 5
and Maturity   1 Year Years(b)Years(b) 1996   1995   1994   1993   1992    
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Loans to 
 businesses(c)  $2,253  $334   $49   $2,636 $2,614 $2,328 $2,652 $2,628
Real estate     
 loans             301   117     5      423    501    592    708    665     
Loans to banks and
 other financial
 institutions    1,695   149    16    1,860  1,240    915  1,083    666     
Equipment            
 financing(d)        -     1     -        1     43     79    105    386     
Consumer loans     828    39     2      869    917    941    912    850     
Loans to governments 
 and official 
 institutions       60     -     4       64     60     81     89     96
All other loans     24     -     -       24     53     54     65     65     
- - ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total           $5,161  $640   $76   $5,877 $5,428 $4,990 $5,614 $5,356  
========================================================================

(a) Based primarily on the domicile of the borrower.
(b) Loans due after 1 year at fixed (predetermined) interest rates   
    totaled $138 million, while those at floating (adjustable) interest 
    rates totaled $578 million.
(c) Business loans, which accounted for approximately 45 percent of the
    portfolio as of December 31, 1996, were distributed over 26 
    commercial and industrial categories.
(d) The decrease from December 31, 1992 to December 31, 1993 reflects 
    $163 million of equipment finance (aircraft) loans transferred to 
    other performing assets upon foreclosure (as aircraft assets leased 
    to others). The total value of aircraft assets leased to others at 
    December 31, 1995 was approximately $361 million.  In January of 1996, 
    AEB transferred to the registrant its aircraft assets leased to others 
    which consisted of aircraft on operating leases as well as loans secured 
    by commercial aircraft.  The transfer price of $286 million, which is net 
    of assumed liabilities, was partially financed through a $120 million, 
    three-year note.  The remainder was paid in cash.
                                 - 22 -

    The following table sets forth AEB's nonperforming loans at year end 
    for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 1996 
    (millions):


                                     1996  1995   1994    1993  1992  
     --------------------------------------------------------------------
     Loans to businesses            $ 29   $ 20   $ 12    $ 24  $ 22   
     Real estate loans                 5      1      4      19    69
     Equipment financing               -      1      3       -     6
     Loans to banks and other
       financial institutions          -      8      -       -     4
     Loans to governments
       and official institutions       -      1      1       -     1
     Consumer loans                    1      3      -       -     -      
     --------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total                          $ 35   $ 34   $ 20    $ 43  $102 
     ========================================================================

     In addition to the above, AEB owned real estate totaling 
     $36 million at December 31, 1996, $44 million at December 31, 
     1995 and $56 million at December 31, 1994, and represent  
     balances transferred from nonperforming loans as a result of  
     foreclosures.  The 1996 decrease as well as the decrease from 
     1994 to 1995 primarily reflected the sale of foreclosed properties.
         
     Reduced rate loans were immaterial in amount. 



















                               - 23 -


     The following table sets forth a summary of the credit loss experience
of AEB at and for each of the five years in the period ended December 31,
1996 (dollars in millions):

                              1996   1995   1994   1993   1992 
                              ----   ----   ----   ----   ----  
Total loans at year end     $5,877 $5,428 $4,990 $5,614 $5,356 
                            ====== ====== ====== ====== ====== 
Reserve for credit losses-
  January 1,                $  111 $  109 $  126 $  153 $  116 
Provision for credit
  losses (a)                    23      7      8     44    121
Translation and other (b)       (1)     -     -     (21)    (1) 
                           ------- --------------------------- 
  Subtotal                     133    116    134    176    236 
                           ------- --------------------------- 

Write-offs:
  Real estate loans              2      -      1     16     30 
  Loans to businesses            7      3     21     19     21 
  Loans to banks and other
    financial institutions       1      1      3      -      4 
  Equipment financing            -      1      -      -      - 
  Loans to governments and
    official institutions        -      1      -      -      2 
  Consumer loans                13      9     19     20     40
  All other loans                -      -      -      6      1 
Recoveries:
  Loans to businesses           (2)    (5)    (4)    (4)    (8)    
  Loans to banks and other
    financial institutions      (1)    (3)    (3)    (1)    (1)    
  Equipment financing            -     (1)    (2)     -      - 
  Loans to governments and
    official institutions       (1)     -      -      -      - 
  Consumer loans                (3)    (1)   (10)    (6)    (5) 
  All other loans                -      -      -      -     (1) 
                            ------  -----  ------- ------ ------ 
    Net write-offs              16      5     25     50      83
                            ------ ------  ------- ------ ------ 
Reserve for credit losses-
  December 31,             $   117  $ 111  $ 109  $ 126   $ 153 
                            ======  ======  ====== ====== ===== 
Reserve for credit losses/
  total loans                1.99%  2.04%  2.19%  2.24%   2.85%  
                           ======  ======  ====== =====  ====== 

(a) The increase in 1996 was primarily due to loan growth, slightly 
    higher consumer and commercial write-offs and lower commercial 
    banking recoveries.
(b) The decline in 1993 was primarily due to the transfer of reserves 
    relating to loans reclassified to other performing assets upon 
    foreclosure.





                                 - 24 -


    Interest income is recognized on the accrual basis.  Loans other than
certain consumer loans are placed on nonperforming status when payments of
principal or interest are 90 days past due or if, in management's opinion,
the borrower is unlikely to meet its contractual obligations.  When loans are
placed on nonperforming status, all previously accrued but unpaid interest is
reversed against current interest income.  Cash receipts of interest on 
nonperforming loans are recognized either as interest income or as a
reduction of principal, based upon management's judgment as to the ultimate
collectibility of principal.  A nonperforming loan may be returned to
performing status when all contractual amounts due are reasonably assured of
repayment within a reasonable period and the borrower shows sustained
repayment performance, or when the loan has become well secured and is in the
process of collection. Consumer loans principally consist of lines of credit
and installment loans.  These loans are written off against the reserve for
credit losses upon reaching specified contractual delinquency stages, or
earlier in the event of the borrower's personal bankruptcy or if the loan is
otherwise deemed uncollectible.  Interest income on these loans generally
accrues until the loan is written off.

    A reserve for credit losses is maintained to absorb losses inherent in
the loan portfolio and in other credit-related on- and off- balance sheet
financial instruments.  The reserve is established by charging a provision
for credit losses against income.  The amount charged to income is based upon
several factors, including historical credit loss experience in relation to
outstanding credits, a continuous assessment of the collectibility of each
credit, and management evaluation of exposures in each applicable country as
related to current and anticipated economic and political conditions. 
Management's assessment of the adequacy of the reserve is inherently
subjective, as significant estimates are required.  Loans determined to be
uncollectible, as well as other credit losses, are charged against the
reserve, with any subsequent recoveries credited to the reserve.

    RISKS

    The global nature of AEB's business activities are such that
concentrations of credit to particular industries and geographic regions are
not unusual.  At December 31, 1996, AEB had significant investments in
certain on- and off- balance sheet financial instruments, which were
primarily represented by deposits with banks, securities, loans, contractual
amounts of letters of credit (standby and commercial) and guarantees.  The
counterparties to these financial instruments were primarily unrelated to
AEB, and principally consisted of banks and other financial institutions and
various commercial and industrial enterprises operating geographically within
the Asia/Pacific region, the Indian Subcontinent, Europe and North America. 
AEB continuously monitors its credit concentrations and actively manages to
reduce the associated risk.  AEB does not anticipate any material losses as
a result of these concentrations.

                               - 25 -


    AEB's earnings are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates, as it is
not always possible to match precisely the maturities of interest-related
assets and liabilities.  However, strict limits have been established for
both country and total bank mismatching.  On occasion, AEB may decide to
mismatch in anticipation of a change in future interest rates in accordance
with these guidelines.  Term loans extended by AEB include both floating
interest rate and fixed interest rate loans.  

    For a discussion relating to AEB's use of derivative financial
instruments, see pages 29 and 30 under the caption "Risk Management," and
Note 12 on pages 45 through 48, of the registrant's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which portions of such report are incorporated herein by
reference.

    COMPETITION

    The banking services of AEB are subject to vigorous competition in all
markets in which AEB operates.  Competitors include local and international
banks whose assets often exceed those of AEB, other financial institutions
(including certain other subsidiaries of the registrant) and, in certain
cases, governmental agencies.  In some countries, AEB may be one of the more
substantial financial institutions offering banking services; in no country,
however, has AEB been dominant.

    REGULATION

    AEB's branches, representative offices and subsidiaries are licensed and
regulated in the jurisdictions in which they do business and are subject to
the same local requirements as other competitors.  AEB's New York Agency is
supervised and regularly examined by the Superintendent of Banks of the State
of New York.  At the request of management, the New York State Banking
Department has extended its supervision and examination of the New York
Agency to cover AEB's global network of branches and subsidiaries. The
Florida Department of Banking and Finance supervises and examines the Miami
Agency. In addition, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
(the "Federal Reserve Board") regulates, supervises and examines AEBI. 

    Since AEB does not do business in the U.S. except as an incident to its
activities outside the U.S., the registrant's affiliation with AEB neither
causes the registrant to be subject to the provisions of the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, nor requires it to register as a bank holding company
under the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation Y.  AEB is not a member of the
Federal Reserve System, is not subject to supervision by the FDIC, and is
not subject to any of the restrictions imposed on grandfathered nonbank banks
by the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 other than anti-tie-in rules 
with respect to transactions involving products and services of certain of
its affiliates.
                               - 26 -



     As a matter of policy, AEB actively monitors compliance with regulatory
capital requirements.  These requirements are essentially represented by the
Federal Reserve Board's risk-based capital guidelines and complementary
leverage constraint.  Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
Improvement Act of 1991, the Federal Reserve Board, among other federal
banking agencies, adopted regulations defining levels of capital adequacy. 
Under these regulations, a bank is deemed to be well capitalized if it
maintains a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.0 percent, a total
risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0 percent, and a leverage ratio of at
least 5.0 percent.  Based on AEB's total risk-based capital and leverage
ratios, which are set forth on page 21, AEB is considered to be well
capitalized at December 31, 1996.


                            CORPORATE

    The Balcor Company Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively,
"Balcor"), formerly operating as a diversified real estate investment and
management company, discontinued new commercial real estate activities in
1990 and began to liquidate its portfolio of real estate loans and
properties.  The liquidation is expected to be substantially completed in
1997.  At December 31, 1996, Balcor's assets, excluding cash and cash
equivalents, totaled approximately $90 million net of related reserves. 
These assets included investments in real estate, interests in partnerships,
real estate loans and advances to limited partnerships originated by Balcor.


                         FOREIGN OPERATIONS

    TRS derives a significant portion of its revenues from the use of the
Card, Travelers Cheques and travel services in countries outside the U.S. and
continues to broaden the use of these products and services outside the U.S.
Political and economic conditions in these countries, including the
availability of foreign exchange for the payment by the local Card issuer of
obligations arising out of local Cardmembers' spending outside such country,
for the payment of Card bills by Cardmembers who are billed in other than
their local currency and for the remittance of the proceeds of Travelers
Cheque sales, can have an effect on TRS' revenues.  Substantial and sudden
devaluation of local Cardmembers' currency can also affect their ability to
make payments to the local issuer of the Card on account of spending outside
the local country.

    The major portion of AEB's banking revenues is from business conducted in
countries outside the U.S.  Some of the risks attendant to those operations
include currency fluctuations and changes in political, economic and legal
environments in each such country.


                               - 27 -


    As a result of its foreign operations, the registrant is exposed to the
possibility that, because of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, assets and
liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar may be
realized in amounts greater or lesser than the U.S. dollar amounts at which
they are currently recorded in the registrant's Consolidated Financial
Statements.  Examples of transactions in which this may occur include the
purchase by Cardmembers of goods and services in a currency other than the
currency in which they are billed; the sale in one currency of a Travelers
Cheque denominated in a second currency; foreign exchange positions held by
AEB as a consequence of its client-related foreign exchange trading
operations; and, in most instances, investments in foreign operations.  These
risks, unless properly monitored and managed, could have an adverse effect on
the registrant's operations.

    The registrant's policy in this area is generally to monitor closely all
foreign exchange positions and to minimize foreign exchange gains and losses,
for example, by offsetting foreign currency assets with foreign currency
liabilities, as in the case of foreign currency loans and receivables, which
are financed in the same currency.  An additional technique used to manage
exposures is the spot and forward purchase or sale of foreign currencies as
a hedge of net exposures in those currencies as, for example, in the case of
the Cardmember and Travelers Cheque transactions described above. 
Additionally, Cardmembers may be charged in U.S. dollars for their spending
outside their local country. The registrant's investments in foreign
operations are hedged by forward exchange contracts or by identifiable
transactions, where appropriate.


         IMPORTANT FACTORS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

    Various forward-looking statements have been made in this Form 10-K
Annual Report.  Forward-looking statements may also be made in the
registrant's other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
in its press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time,
the registrant through its management may make oral forward-looking
statements. 

    Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties,
including those identified below, which could cause actual results to differ
materially from such statements.  The words "believe", "expect",
"anticipate", "optimistic", "intend", "aim", "will" or similar expressions
are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned
not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak
only as of the date on which they are made.  The registrant undertakes no
obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.

    Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from the registrant's forward-looking statements, as well as affect the
registrant's ability to achieve its financial and other 

                               - 28 -


goals, include, but are not limited to, the following: 

* The registrant's inability to extend the value of the American Express
brand, which historically has been associated with the Card and travel
businesses (e.g., perception of trust, security and quality service), to a
broad range of financial products and services in the financial services
industry.  This could depend in part on the registrant's ability to manage
the potential conflicts inherent in its growing multi-channel delivery
systems. 
  
* The registrant's inability to succeed in its ongoing reengineering efforts
and in achieving best-in-class economics, while also maintaining high 
service levels.
 
* The registrant's inability to successfully create, and increase
distribution channels for, financial, travel, Card and other products and
services.

* The registrant's inability to participate in payment and other 
systems material to its businesses on a fair and competitive basis.
 
* The registrant's inability to successfully invest in, and compete
at the leading edge of, technology developments across all businesses,
e.g., transaction processing, data management, customer interactions
and communications, travel reservations systems, stored value 
products, risk management systems.
 
* TRS' inability to expand its overall revenues, which depends in part on its
ability to increase consumer and/or business spending and borrowing on its
credit and charge cards, expand market share and develop new or enhanced
products that capture greater share of customers' total spending on American
Express Cards or other cards issued on its network.                         
    
* TRS' inability to enhance significantly its international operations, which
will depend in part on its ability to reduce expenses for re-investment in
the international business, expand the proprietary Card and network
businesses and increase its network of merchants.
  
* The inability of TRS to retain Cardmembers in consumer lending 
products after low introductory rate periods have expired.

* The inability of TRS to sustain premium discount rates or increase
merchant coverage, both of which will depend in part on its ability to
maintain a customer base that appeals to merchants and to develop deeper
merchant relationships through creation of new products and services.
 
                               - 29 -
 


* The inability of TRS and AEB to manage credit risk related to 
consumer debt and business loans, including unseasoned balances 
in TRS' lending portfolios, which could be affected by general 
economic conditions, including interest rates and consumer 
credit trends, and the rate of bankruptcies.

* The inability of AXP Advisors to maintain a growing field force.
 
* A short-term financial market crash, or a longer term financial market
decline or stagnation, which could impact the sale of investment products at
AXP Advisors and AEFD and the market value of AXP Advisors' and AEFD's
managed assets, resulting in lower management and distribution fees.

* The impact of changing interest rates, which could affect AXP Advisors's
spreads between revenues from owned investments and benefits credited to 
clients fixed income accounts, TRS' borrowing costs and TRS' and AEB's return 
on lending products.

* Changes in laws or government regulations that either restrict 
the businesses of the registrant, or allow a wider range of 
institutions to compete in such businesses, e.g., banks being allowed
to sell products competing with AXP Advisors, non-banking institutions 
selling bank products in competition with AEB; and changes in tax laws 
affecting the registrants' businesses.  See also pages 3, 14, 15, 16, 26 
and 27 of this 10-K Report for a discussion of various regulations affecting 
the registrant.
 
* Global developments that could affect the registrant's operations
abroad, such as political or economic instability in key markets of the 
registrant's businesses or restrictions on convertibility of certain 
currencies.  See also pages 25, 26, 27 and 28 of this 10-K Report for a 
discussion of risks relating to foreign operations.
 
* Competitive pressures in all of the registrant's major businesses,
including those competitive issues referred to on pages 5, 7, 8, 10, 11, 14,
16, 17 and 26 in this 10-K Annual Report.
 
* Unforeseen litigation or compliance costs.

  INDUSTRY SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES

  Information with respect to the registrant's industry segments,
geographical operations and classes of similar services is set forth in Note
16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the registrant, which appears
on pages 52 through 54 of the registrant's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which Note is incorporated herein by reference.

                               - 30 -


              EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    All of the executive officers of the registrant as of March 24, 1997,
none of whom has any family relationship with any other and none of whom
became an officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any other
person, are listed below.  Each of such officers was elected to serve until
the next annual election of officers or until his or her successor is elected
and qualified.  Each officer's age is indicated by the number in parentheses
next to his or her name.

HARVEY GOLUB -          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; 
                         Chairman, TRS

    Mr. Golub (58) has been Chief Executive Officer of the registrant since
February 1993, Chairman of the registrant since August 1993 and Chairman, TRS
since November 1991.  Prior to February 1997 he had been  Chief Executive
Officer of TRS since November 1991.  Prior to August 1993, he had been
President of the registrant since July 1991.  Prior to January 1992, he was
also Chairman of American Express Financial Corporation.


KENNETH I. CHENAULT -    President and Chief Operating Officer; 
                          President and Chief Executive Officer, TRS

    Mr. Chenault (45) has been President and Chief Operating Officer of the
registrant and President and Chief Executive Officer of TRS since February
1997.  Prior to February 1997 he had been Vice Chairman of the registrant
since January 1995.  Prior to May 1995, he had also been President, U.S.A. of
TRS since August 1993.  Prior thereto, he had been President, Consumer Card
Group, TRS.  


GEORGE L. FARR -        Vice Chairman

    Mr. Farr (55) has been Vice Chairman of the registrant since May 1995. 
Prior thereto, he had been a director of McKinsey & Company.


RICHARD K. GOELTZ -     Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer

    Mr. Goeltz (54) has been Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of the
registrant since September 1996.  Prior thereto, he had been Group Chief
Financial Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of NatWest Group.


JONATHAN S. LINEN -     Vice Chairman

    Mr. Linen (53) has been Vice Chairman of the registrant since August
1993.  Prior thereto, he had been President and Chief Operating Officer of
TRS since March 1992.
                               - 31 -


STEVEN W. ALESIO -      President, Consumer Travel, Small Business
                         Services and Government Card, TRS

    Mr. Alesio (42) has been President, Consumer Travel, Small Business
Services and Government Card, TRS since February 1996.  Prior thereto, he had
been Executive Vice President, Travel Services Group, TRS since June 1995. 
Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Corporate Card, TRS
since November 1993.  Prior thereto, he had been Senior Vice President of the
Consumer Travel Network, TRS.


ANNE M. BUSQUET -       President, American Express Relationship 
                         Services, TRS

    Mrs. Busquet (46) has been President, American Express Relationship
Services, TRS since October 1995.  Prior thereto, she had been Executive Vice
President, Consumer Card Group since November 1993.  Prior thereto, she had
been Senior Vice President and General Manager, Merchandise Services.


URSULA F. FAIRBAIRN -   Executive Vice President, Human Resources 
                         and Quality

    Mrs. Fairbairn (54) has been Executive Vice President, Human Resources
and Quality of the registrant since December 1996.  Prior thereto, she had
been Senior Vice President, Human Resources of Union Pacific Corporation.


EDWARD P. GILLIGAN -    President, Corporate Services, TRS

    Mr. Gilligan (37) has been President, Corporate Services, TRS since
February 1996.  Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Travel
Management Services, TRS since June 1995.  Prior thereto, he had been Senior
Vice President and General Manager, Eastern Region of Travel Management
Services, TRS since June 1992.  Prior thereto, he had been Vice President,
Corporate Client Services, TRS.


JOHN D. HAYES -         Executive Vice President, Global Advertising 

    Mr. Hayes (42) has been Executive Vice President, Global Advertising
since May 1995.  Prior thereto, he had been President of Lowe & Partners/SMS
since January 1991.






                               - 32 -



 WILLIAM J. HERON, JR. - President, American Express Financial Direct

    Mr. Heron (55) has been President, American Express Financial Direct
since July 1995.  Prior thereto, he had been Chief Executive Officer of The
Swig Investment Company since April 1993.  Prior thereto, he had been Group
Executive, U.S. Consumer Business, Citicorp and Division Executive, New York
Business, Citibank.


DAVID C. HOUSE -        President, Establishment Services Worldwide, TRS

    Mr. House (47) has been President, Establishment Services Worldwide, TRS
since October 1995.  Prior thereto, he had been Senior Vice President of
Sales and Field Marketing for the U.S. Establishment Services Group since
January 1993.  Prior thereto, he had been Senior Vice President of Reebok
International, Inc.


DAVID R. HUBERS -       President and Chief Executive Officer, American
                         Express Financial Corporation

    Mr. Hubers (54) has been President and Chief Executive Officer of
American Express Financial Corporation since August 1993.  Prior thereto, he
had been a Senior Vice President of American Express Financial Corporation.


CARL B. LEHMANN -       President, Stored Value Group, TRS

    Mr. Lehmann (43) has been President, Stored Value Group, TRS since
October 1993.  Prior thereto, he had been Senior Vice President, Cheque
Products, TRS.


ALLAN Z. LOREN -        Executive Vice President and Chief Information
                         Officer

    Mr. Loren (58) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information
Officer of the registrant since May 1994.  Prior thereto, he had been
President and Chief Executive Officer of Galileo International since January
1991. 


LOUISE M. PARENT -      Executive Vice President and General Counsel

    Ms. Parent (46) has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel of
the registrant since May 1993.  Prior thereto, she had been Deputy General
Counsel of the registrant since January 1992.



                               - 33 -



PHILLIP J. RIESE -      President, Consumer Card Services Group, TRS;
                         Chairman of the Board of American Express
                         Centurion Bank

    Mr. Riese (47) has been President, Consumer Card Services Group, TRS
since September 1995.  Prior thereto, he had been President, Cardmember
Financial Services Group, TRS since September 1993.  He has been Chairman of
the Board of American Express Centurion Bank since August 1993.  Prior to
September 1993, he had been Executive Vice President and General Manager of
the Charge Card Group, TRS.


THOMAS O. RYDER -       President, TRS International

    Mr. Ryder (52) has been President, TRS International since October 1995.
Prior thereto, he had been President, Establishment Services Worldwide, TRS
since 1993.  Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and General
Manager of the Establishment Services Division, TRS.


THOMAS SCHICK -         Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and
                         Communications

    Mr. Schick (50) has been Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and
Communications of the registrant since March 1993.  Prior thereto, he had
been Executive Vice President, TRS since October 1992.  Prior thereto, he had
been Senior Executive Vice President of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.


JOHN A. WARD, III -     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, American
                         Express Bank Ltd.

    Mr. Ward (50) has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, American
Express Bank Ltd. since January 1996.  Prior thereto, he had been Executive
Vice President of Chase Manhattan Bank since September 1993 and Chief
Executive Officer of Chase BankCard Services since July 1993.  Prior thereto,
he had been President of Chase Personal Financial Services.


EMPLOYEES

    The registrant had approximately 72,300 employees on December 31, 1996.

                               



                               - 34 -



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The registrant's headquarters are in a 51-story, 2.2 million square foot
building located in lower Manhattan, which also serves as the headquarters
for TRS and AEB.  This building, which is on land leased from the Battery
Park City Authority for a term expiring in 2069, is one of four office
buildings in a complex known as the World Financial Center.  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. ("Lehman") is also headquartered at, and owns 52% of, the
building.

    Other principal locations of TRS include:  the American Express Service
Centers in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Phoenix, Arizona, Greensboro, North
Carolina and Salt Lake City, Utah, and American Express Canada, Inc.
headquarters, Markham, Ontario, Canada, all of which are owned by the
registrant or its subsidiaries.  

    AEFC's principal locations are its headquarters, the IDS Tower, a portion
of which the company leases until 2002, and its Operations Center, which the
company owns; both are in Minneapolis, Minnesota.  AXP Advisors also owns Oak
Ridge Conference Center, a training facility and conference center, in
Chaska, Minnesota.

    Generally, the registrant and its subsidiaries lease the premises they
occupy in other locations.  Facilities owned or occupied by the registrant
and its subsidiaries are believed to be adequate for the purposes for which
they are used and are well maintained.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The registrant and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal and
arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection with the
conduct of their respective business activities.  The registrant believes it
has meritorious defenses to each of these actions and intends to defend them
vigorously.  The registrant believes that it is not a party to, nor are any
of its properties the subject of, any pending legal proceedings which would
have a material adverse effect on the registrant's consolidated financial
condition.

    Several shareholder derivative actions were brought in 1990 and in early
1991 in the New York Federal District Court (Lewis v. Robinson, et al.) and
in New York State Supreme Court (Seinfeld v. Robinson) against all of the
then current directors, certain former directors and certain former officers
and employees of the registrant.  The actions alleged, among other things,
that defendants breached their duty of care in managing the registrant,
purportedly resulting in losses including the registrant's payment of $8
million in July 1989 to certain charities agreed to by the registrant and
Edmond J. Safra.  The federal actions were dismissed in December 1993,
 


                                  - 35 -


and the dismissal was upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second 
Circuit in November 1994.  The consolidated state actions were settled with 
the state court's approval in February 1997 with the implementation of certain
internal procedures.  The state court denied the request of plaintiffs' counsel
for attorneys' fees and expenses payable by the registrant, which portion of 
the state court's decision is subject to appeal.

    A number of lawsuits have been filed against life and health insurers in
jurisdictions in which AEFC and its subsidiaries do business involving
insurers' sales practices, alleged agent misconduct, failure to properly
supervise agents, and other matters.  AEFC and its insurance subsidiaries,
like other life and health insurers, from time to time are involved in such
litigation. On December 13, 1996, an action entitled Lesa Benacquisto and
Daniel Benacquisto vs. IDS Life Insurance Company ("IDS Life") and American
Express Financial Corporation was commenced in Minnesota state court.  The
action is brought by individuals who replaced an existing IDS Life insurance
policy with a new IDS Life policy.  The plaintiffs purport to represent a
class consisting of all persons who replaced existing IDS Life policies with
new IDS Life policies from and after January 1, 1985.  The complaint puts at
issue various alleged sales practices and misrepresentations, alleged
breaches of fiduciary duties and alleged violations of consumer fraud
statutes.  Plaintiffs seek damages in an unspecified amount and also seek to
establish a claims resolution facility for the determination of individual
issues.  IDS Life and AEFC filed an answer to the Complaint on February 18,
1997, denying the allegations.

    See page 12 for a discussion of certain actions TRS commenced against
VISA and MasterCard outside of the United States.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    No matters were submitted to a vote of the registrant's security holders
during the last quarter of its fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.

                             PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

    The principal market for the registrant's Common Shares is The New York
Stock Exchange.  Its Common Shares are also listed on the Boston, Chicago,
Pacific, London, Swiss, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Paris, Amsterdam and Brussels
Stock Exchanges.  The registrant had 55,803 common shareholders of record at
December 31, 1996.  For price and dividend information with respect to such
Common Shares, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page
55 of the registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is
incorporated herein by reference.

                               - 36 -


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The "Consolidated Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" appearing
on page 57 of the registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is
incorporated herein by reference. 


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The information set forth under the heading "Financial Review" appearing
on pages 22 through 30 of the registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The "Consolidated Financial Statements", the "Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements" and the "Report of Ernst & Young LLP Independent
Auditors" appearing on pages 31 through 56 of the registrant's 1996 Annual
Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.


                           PART III

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 and 13.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
                           REGISTRANT; EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION; SECURITY
                           OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                           MANAGEMENT; CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
                           TRANSACTIONS

    The registrant filed with the SEC, within 120 days after the close of its
last fiscal year, a definitive proxy statement dated March 12, 1997 pursuant
to Regulation 14A, which involves the election of directors.  The following
portions of such proxy statement are incorporated herein by reference:  pages
3 and 4 under the heading "The Shares Voting," pages 5 through 7 under the
headings "Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers," and
"Security Ownership of Named Executives," pages 10 through 12 under the
heading "Directors' Fees and Other Compensation," pages 12 beginning at
"Election of Directors" through 33 ending at "Selection of Auditors
(excluding the portions under the headings, "Board Compensation Committee
Report on Executive Compensation" appearing on pages 16 through 21 and
"Performance Graph" appearing on page 27).  In addition, the registrant has
provided, under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" at pages
31 through 34 above, the information regarding executive officers called for
by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.

                               - 37 -


                             PART IV

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a)   1.  Financial Statements:

                See Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 hereof.

            2.  Financial Statement Schedules:

                See Index to Financial Statements on page F-1 hereof.

            3.  Exhibits:

                See Exhibit Index on pages E-1 through E-5 hereof.

      (b)   Reports on Form 8-K:


             1.  Form 8-K, dated October 29, 1996, Item 5, reporting the
                 registrant's earnings for the quarter ended September 
                 30, 1996.

             2.  Form 8-K, dated January 27, 1997, Item 5, reporting the
                 registrant's earnings for the quarter and year ended
                 December 31, 1996.
























                               - 38 -

 
                              SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY

March 24, 1997                        By  /s/ Richard K. Goeltz
                                          Richard K. Goeltz
                                          Vice Chairman and
                                          Chief Financial Officer

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

By /s/ Harvey Golub                   By /s/ Charles W. Duncan, Jr.
   Harvey Golub                          Charles W. Duncan, Jr.
   Chairman, Chief Executive             Director
   Officer and Director

By /s/ Richard K. Goeltz              By /s/ Beverly Sills Greenough
   Richard K. Goeltz                     Beverly Sills Greenough
   Vice Chairman and                     Director
   Chief Financial Officer            
   
By /s/ Daniel T. Henry                By /s/ F. Ross Johnson
   Daniel T. Henry                       F. Ross Johnson
   Senior Vice President                 Director
   and Comptroller                       

By /s/ Daniel F. Akerson              By /s/ Vernon E. Jordan, Jr.
   Daniel F. Akerson                     Vernon E. Jordan, Jr.
   Director                              Director 

By /s/ Anne L. Armstrong              By /s/ Drew Lewis
   Anne L. Armstrong                     Drew Lewis
   Director                              Director

By /s/ Edwin L. Artzt                 By /s/ Aldo Papone
   Edwin L. Artzt                        Aldo Papone
   Director                              Director

By /s/ William G. Bowen               By /s/ Frank P. Popoff
   William G. Bowen                      Frank P. Popoff
   Director                              Director

By /s/ David M. Culver
   David M. Culver                      
   Director                             

March 24, 1997
                                  - 39 -



                         AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY
                                     
                       INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 COVERED BY REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
                                     
                               (Item 14(a))

                                                                   Annual
                                                                 Report to
                                                                Shareholders
                                                     Form 10-K     (Page)
American Express Company and Subsidiaries:                        
 Data incorporated by reference from attached                     
    1996 Annual Report to Shareholders:                           
    Report of independent auditors ............                     56
    Consolidated statement of income for the                      
      three years ended December 31, 1996 .....                     31
    Consolidated balance sheet at December 31,                    
      1996 and 1995 ...........................                     32
    Consolidated statement of cash flows for                      
      the three years ended December 31, 1996 .                     33
    Consolidated statement of shareholders' equity                
      for the three years ended December 31, 1996                   34
    Notes to consolidated financial statements                    35-55
 Consent of independent auditors ..............        F-2
 Schedules:                                                       
  I -- Condensed financial information of
       registrant                                      F-3-6
 II -- Valuation and qualifying accounts for the
       three years ended December 31, 1996             F-7

All other schedules for American Express Company and subsidiaries have been
omitted since the required information is not present or not present in
amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the
information required is included in the respective financial statements or
notes thereto.

The consolidated financial statements of American Express Company
(including the report of independent auditors) listed in the above index,
which are included in the Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
1996, are hereby incorporated by reference.  With the exception of the
pages listed in the above index, unless otherwise incorporated by reference
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the 1996 Annual Report is not
to be deemed filed as part of this report.













                                    F-1



                                                         EXHIBIT 23

                 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

     We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of American Express Company of our report dated
February 7, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as our Report), included
in the 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders of American Express
Company.

     Our audits included the financial statement schedules of
American Express Company listed in Item 14(a).  These schedules are
the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility
is to express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, the
financial statement schedules referred to above, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

     We also consent to the incorporation by reference in
Registration Statements (Form S-8 No. 2-46918, No. 2-59230, No.
2-64285, No. 2-73954, No. 2-89680, No. 33-01771, No. 33-02980, No.
33-28721, No. 33-33552, No. 33-36422, No. 33-48629, No. 33-62124,
No. 33-65008, No. 33-53801, and No. 333-12683; Form S-3 No. 2-89469, 
No. 33-43268, and No. 33-50997) and in the related Prospecti of our
Report with respect to the consolidated financial statements and
schedules of American Express Company included and incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1996.




/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
New York, New York
March 26, 1997






                                      F-2



          AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
         SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                     
                       CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME
                                     
                           (Parent Company Only)
                                (millions)


                                                         Years Ended
                                                         December 31,
                                                 ------------------------
                                                 1996      1995      1994
                                                 ----      ----      ----
                                                                    
Revenues                                        $ 245     $ 254     $ 187
                                                -----     -----     -----
                                                                    
Expenses:                                                           
  Interest                                        261       245       216
  Human resources                                  71        85        84
  Other (A)                                      (310)      218       164
                                                -----     -----     -----
                                                                    
     Total                                         22       548       464
                                                -----     -----     -----
                                                                    
Pretax income (loss) from continuing operations   223      (294)     (277)
Income tax provision (benefit)                     43      (132)     (110)
                                                -----     -----     -----
Net income (loss) before equity in net income                       
  of subsidiaries and affiliates                  180      (162)     (167)
Equity in net income of subsidiaries                                
  and affiliates                                1,721     1,726     1,547
                                                -----     -----     -----
                                                                    
Income from continuing operations               1,901     1,564     1,380
                                                                    
Equity in income of discontinued operations         -         -        33
                                                -----     -----     -----
                                                                    
Net income                                     $1,901    $1,564    $1,413
                                                =====     =====     =====



(A)Includes a pretax gain of $480 million ($300 million after-tax) on the
   exchange of DECS (Debt Exchangeable for Common Stock) for FDC common
   stock.


See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
                                     
                                    F-3


          AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
         SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                          CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
                           (Parent Company Only)
                     (millions, except share amounts)

                                  ASSETS
                                  ------
                                                               December 31,
                                                              -------------
                                                              1996     1995
                                                              ----     ----
                                                                    
Cash and cash equivalents                                 $    31   $    19
Investments                                                   239       661
Securities purchased under agreement to resell                119       319
Equity in net assets of subsidiaries and affiliates         8,763     9,451
Accounts receivable and accrued interest, less reserves        36        44
Land, buildings and equipment--at cost, less                        
  accumulated depreciation: 1996, $61; 1995,$69                69        74
Due from subsidiaries (net)                                   922       988
Other assets                                                  370       418
                                                          -------   -------
    Total assets                                          $10,549   $11,974
                                                          =======   =======
                                     
                   LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                   ------------------------------------

Accounts payable and other liabilities                    $ 1,355   $ 1,314
Long-term debt                                                666     2,340
Short-term debt                                                 -       100
                                                          -------   -------
    Total liabilities                                       2,021     3,754
                                                                    
Shareholders' equity:                                               
  Preferred shares, $1.66 2/3 par value, authorized                 
    20 million shares
    Convertible Exchangeable Preferred shares, issued               
    and outstanding 4 million shares in 1995, stated                
    at liquidation value                                        -       200
  Common shares, $.60 par value, authorized                         
    1.2 billion shares; issued and outstanding                      
    472.9 million shares in 1996 and 483.1 million                  
     shares in 1995                                           284       290
  Capital surplus                                           4,191     3,781
  Net unrealized securities gains                             386       875
  Foreign currency translation adjustment                     (89)      (85)
  Retained earnings                                         3,756     3,159
                                                          -------   -------
    Total shareholders' equity                              8,528     8,220
                                                          -------   -------
  Total liabilities and shareholders' equity              $10,549   $11,974
                                                          =======   =======

See Notes to Condensed Financial Information of Registrant

                                    F-4


           AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                                      
          SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                      
                           STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                      
                            (Parent Company Only)
                                 (millions)
                                      
                                                  Years Ended December 31,
                                                  ------------------------
                                                  1996      1995      1994
                                                  ----      ----      ----
Cash flows from operating activities:                               
Net income                                     $ 1,901   $ 1,564   $ 1,413
                                                                    
Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash                         
 provided by operating activities:                                  
 Equity in net income of subsidiaries                               
  and affiliates                                (1,721)   (1,726)   (1,547)
 Equity in income of discontinued                            
  operations                                         -         -       (33)
 Dividends received from subsidiaries                               
  and affiliates                                 1,426       941       877
 (FDC Gain)/Restructuring                         (287)        -         -
                                                -------   -------   -------
Net cash provided by operating activities        1,319       779       710
                                                -------   -------   -------
Net cash provided (used) by investing                                
 activities                                        124       (32)    1,536
                                                -------   -------   -------
Cash flows from financing activities:                               
 Issuance of American Express common shares        176       286       179
 Repurchase of American Express common shares   (1,041)     (891)     (555)
 Dividends paid                                   (436)     (458)     (504)
 Cash infusion to Lehman Brothers                    -         -      (904)
 Net decrease in debt                             (427)     (864)     (331)
 Other (primarily Due from subsidiaries)           297     1,035        25
                                                -------   -------   -------
Net cash used by financing activities           (1,431)     (892)   (2,090)
                                                -------   -------   -------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash                             
equivalents                                         12      (145)      156
                                                -------   -------   -------
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning                              
 of year                                            19       164         8
                                                -------   -------   -------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year       $    31   $    19   $   164
                                                =======   =======   =======
                                      
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:
Cash paid for interest (net of amounts capitalized) in 1996, 1995, and 1994
was $216 million, $190 million and $169 million, respectively.  Net cash paid
for income taxes was $199 for 1996; net cash received for income taxes was
$127 and $185 for 1995 and 1994 respectively.
                                      
                                     F-5



          AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                                     
         SCHEDULE I--CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                     
          NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT



1.Principles of Consolidation
  
  The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of American
  Express Company and on an equity basis its subsidiaries and affiliates.
  These financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
  consolidated financial statements of the Company.  Certain prior year's
  amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year's
  presentation.

2.Long-term debt consists of (millions):
                                                              December 31,
                                                             -------------
                                                             1996     1995
                                                             ----     ----
6 1/4% DECS due October 15, 1996                                -   $1,294
8 1/2% Notes due August 15, 2001                            $ 299      298
Floating Medium-Term Note due December 31, 2000               150      208
8 3/4% Notes due June 15, 1996                                  -      200
8 5/8% Senior Debentures due 2022                             132      198
Senior Floating Rate Note due September 30, 1996                -       55
WFC Series Z Zero Coupon Notes due December 12, 2000           42       37
WFC Series D 11 5/8% Guaranteed Notes due December 12, 2000    12       22
WFC $60 million 7.899% Japanese Yen PPN due July 1996           -        9
WFC $80 million 7.8045% Japanese Yen PPN due August 1996        -       11
Other Fixed and Floating rate notes maturing 1999-2001         31        8
                                                            -----   ------
                                                            $ 666   $2,340
                                                            =====   ======

Aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt for the five years ending
December 31, 2001 are as follows (millions): 1997, $14; 1998, $26; 1999,
$33; 2000, $190, 2001, $305.

                                                                         











                                    F-6



            AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES
                                       
                SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                       
                      THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                  (millions)


                       Reserve for credit losses,     Reserve for doubtful
                          loans and discounts         accounts receivable
                       --------------------------  -------------------------
                         1996    1995     1994      1996     1995      1994
                        ------  ------   ------    ------   ------    ------
Balance at beginning                                                
 of period             $  602  $  545   $  655     $  829   $  807    $ 796
                                                                    
Additions:                                                          
                                                                    
 Charges to income        658     529      362      1,081(a) 1,156(a)  974(a)
 Recoveries of amounts                                              
   previously written-
   off                    136     134      150          -        -        -
 Other                      -       -      (19)         -        -        -
                                                                    
Deductions:                                                         
                                                                    
 Charges for which                                                  
   reserves were
   provided              (795)   (606)    (603)    (1,188)  (1,134)   (963)
                       ------- -------  -------    -------  -------  -------
                                                                    
Balance at end of
  period               $  601  $  602   $  545     $  722   $  829   $  807
                       ======= =======  =======    =======  =======   =======

                                                                  
(a)  Before recoveries on accounts previously written-off, which are credited
     to income: 1996--$232, 1995--$219 and 1994--$215.


                                       
                                       












                                      F-7




                         EXHIBIT INDEX 

The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report or, where
indicated, were heretofore filed and are hereby incorporated by reference
(*indicates exhibits electronically filed herewith.)  Exhibits numbered 10.1
through 10.18 and 10.28 through 10.36 are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements.

3.1    Registrant's Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated 
       by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the registrant's Registration 
       Statement on Form S-8, dated October 31, 1991 (Commission File 
       No. 33-43671)).

3.2    Registrant's By-Laws, as amended (incorporated by reference to 
       Exhibit 3.2 of the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
       (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 
       1996).

4      The instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt
       securities of the registrant and its subsidiaries are omitted 
       pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K.  
       The registrant hereby agrees to furnish copies of these 
       instruments to the SEC upon request.

10.1   American Express Company 1979 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as 
       amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No.
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987).

10.2   American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as 
       amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 
       of the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission 
       File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 1996).

10.3   American Express Company Deferred Compensation Plan for 
       Directors, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 
       of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission File 
       No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992).

10.4   Description of American Express Pay for Performance Deferral 
       Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No.
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

10.5   American Express Company 1983 Stock Purchase Assistance Plan, as
       amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).


                               E-1



10.6   Consulting Agreement dated March 3, 1994 between the registrant  
       and Aldo Papone Consulting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
       10.8  of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission  
       File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).

10.7   American Express Company Retirement Plan for Non-Employee 
       Directors, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 
       of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File 
       No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

10.8   Certificate of Amendment of the American Express Company 
       Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors dated March 21, 1996
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of the registrant's 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1995).

10.9   American Express Company Directors' Stock Option Plan 
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the registrant's 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1987).

10.10  American Express Key Executive Life Insurance Plan, as amended
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the registrant's 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1991).

10.11  American Express Key Employee Charitable Award Program for 
       Education (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990).

10.12  American Express Directors' Charitable Award Program 
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the registrant's 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1990).

10.13  Description of separate pension arrangement and loan agreement 
       between the registrant and Harvey Golub (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.17 of registrant's Annual Report on Form 
       10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1988).

10.14  Shearson Lehman Brothers Capital Partners I Amended and Restated
       Agreement of Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference to 
       Exhibit 10.18 of registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
       (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 
       31, 1988).



                               E-2


10.15  Shearson Lehman Hutton Capital Partners II, L.P. Amended and 
       Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.19 of registrant's Annual Report on Form 
       10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1988).

10.16  American Express Company Salary/Bonus Deferral Plan (incorporated 
       by reference to Exhibit 10.20 of registrant's Annual Report on 
       Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1988).

10.17  Written description of certain pension arrangements with Jonathan 
       S.  Linen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991).

10.18  Consulting Agreement dated March 3, 1994 between American Express
       Travel Related Services Company, Inc. and Aldo Papone Consulting
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 of the registrant's
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).

10.19  Restated and Amended Agreement of Tenants-In-Common, dated May 
       27, 1994, by and among the registrant, American Express Bank    
       Ltd., American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc., 
       Lehman Brothers Inc., Lehman Government Securities, Inc. and 
       Lehman Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated by reference 
       to Exhibit 10.1 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s Transition 
       Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the 
       transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.20  Tax Allocation Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, between Lehman 
       Brothers  Holdings Inc. and the registrant (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s 
       Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for 
       the transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.21  Intercompany Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, between the 
       registrant and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s 
       Transition Report on Form 10-K 1994 (Commission File No. 1-9466) 
       for the transition period from January 1, 1994 to  November 30, 
       1994).

10.22  Purchase and Exchange Agreement, dated April 28, 1994, between 
       Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the registrant (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.29 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s 
       Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for 
       the transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).


                               E-3


10.23  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 27, 1994, between 
       the registrant and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.30 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s 
       Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for 
       the transition period from  January 1, 1994 to November 30, 
       1994).

10.24  Option Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, by and among the 
       registrant, American Express Bank Ltd., American Express Travel 
       Related Services Company, Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 
       Lehman Brothers Inc., Lehman Government Securities, Inc. and 
       Lehman Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated by reference 
       to Exhibit 10.31 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s Transition 
       Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the 
       transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.25  1994 Agreement, dated April 28, 1994, between the registrant, 
       Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Nippon Life Insurance Company 
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 of Lehman Brothers 
       Holdings Inc.'s Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File 
       No. 1-9466) for the transition period from January 1, 1994 to 
       November 30, 1994).

10.26  1990 Agreement, dated as of June 12, 1990, by and between the
       registrant and Nippon Life Insurance Company (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.25 of Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings 
       Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) 
       for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990).

10.27  Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of March 12, 1993 between Smith
       Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Incorporated, Primerica Corporation 
       and Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. (incorporated by reference to 
       Exhibit 10.16 of Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s Annual 
       Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the fiscal 
       year ended December 31, 1992).

10.28  American Express Company 1993 Directors' Stock Option Plan
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28.2 of the registrant's
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for 
       the quarter ended March 31, 1993).

10.29  Description of separate pension arrangement between the 
       registrant and George L. Farr (incorporated by reference to 
       Exhibit 10.33 of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 
       10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1995).

10.30  American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan (incorporated by
       reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the registrant's Quarterly Report on 
       Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended June 
       30, 1994).
                               E-4


10.31  Amendment of American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan.
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the registrant's
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for 
       the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.32  Amendment of American Express Company Key Executive Life 
       Insurance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the 
       registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File 
       No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.33  Amendment of American Express Company Salary/Bonus Deferral Plan
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the registrant's
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for 
       the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.34  Amendment of Long-Term Incentive Awards under the American 
       Express Company 1979 and 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plans 
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the registrant's 
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for 
       the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.35  IDS Current Service Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by
       reference to Exhibit 10.42 of the registrant's Annual Report on 
       Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1994).

10.36  Amended and Restated American Express Supplemental Retirement 
       Plan  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the 
       registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 
       1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 1995).

10.37  Agreement dated February 27, 1995 between the registrant and
       Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
       10.43  of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission
       File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

10.38  Agreement dated July 20, 1995 between the registrant and 
       Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and its subsidiaries (incorporated by  
       reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the registrant's Quarterly Report on 
       Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended 
       September 30, 1995).

*11    Computation of Earnings Per Share.

*12.1  Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

*12.2  Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and 
       Preferred Share Dividends.

 

                               E-5


*13    Portions of the registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders 
       that are incorporated herein by reference.

*21    Subsidiaries of the registrant.

*23    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP (contained on page F-2 of this 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K).

*27    Financial Data Schedule.



































                               E-6



========================================================================




                               UNITED STATES
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549





                     ------------------------------------
                                        





                                 FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                    THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934



For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996   Commission File No. 1-7657





                     -------------------------------------

 



                          American Express Company
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

       


                              E X H I B I T S 




========================================================================





                         EXHIBIT INDEX 

The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report or, where
indicated, were heretofore filed and are hereby incorporated by reference
(*indicates exhibits electronically filed herewith.)  Exhibits numbered 10.1
through 10.18 and 10.28 through 10.36 are management contracts or
compensatory plans or arrangements.

3.1    Registrant's Restated Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated 
       by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the registrant's Registration 
       Statement on Form S-8, dated October 31, 1991 (Commission File 
       No. 33-43671)).

3.2    Registrant's By-Laws, as amended (incorporated by reference to 
       Exhibit 3.2 of the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
       (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 
       1996).

4      The instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt
       securities of the registrant and its subsidiaries are omitted 
       pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii)(A) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K.  
       The registrant hereby agrees to furnish copies of these 
       instruments to the SEC upon request.

10.1   American Express Company 1979 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as 
       amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No.
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987).

10.2   American Express Company 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as 
       amended and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 
       of the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission 
       File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 1996).

10.3   American Express Company Deferred Compensation Plan for 
       Directors, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 
       of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K  (Commission File 
       No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992).

10.4   Description of American Express Pay for Performance Deferral 
       Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No.
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

10.5   American Express Company 1983 Stock Purchase Assistance Plan, as
       amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).


                               E-1



10.6   Consulting Agreement dated March 3, 1994 between the registrant  
       and Aldo Papone Consulting (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
       10.8  of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission  
       File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).

10.7   American Express Company Retirement Plan for Non-Employee 
       Directors, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 
       of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File 
       No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988).

10.8   Certificate of Amendment of the American Express Company 
       Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors dated March 21, 1996
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 of the registrant's 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1995).

10.9   American Express Company Directors' Stock Option Plan 
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the registrant's 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1987).

10.10  American Express Key Executive Life Insurance Plan, as amended
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the registrant's 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1991).

10.11  American Express Key Employee Charitable Award Program for 
       Education (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990).

10.12  American Express Directors' Charitable Award Program 
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the registrant's 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1990).

10.13  Description of separate pension arrangement and loan agreement 
       between the registrant and Harvey Golub (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.17 of registrant's Annual Report on Form 
       10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1988).

10.14  Shearson Lehman Brothers Capital Partners I Amended and Restated
       Agreement of Limited Partnership (incorporated by reference to 
       Exhibit 10.18 of registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K 
       (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 
       31, 1988).



                               E-2


10.15  Shearson Lehman Hutton Capital Partners II, L.P. Amended and 
       Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.19 of registrant's Annual Report on Form 
       10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1988).

10.16  American Express Company Salary/Bonus Deferral Plan (incorporated 
       by reference to Exhibit 10.20 of registrant's Annual Report on 
       Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1988).

10.17  Written description of certain pension arrangements with Jonathan 
       S.  Linen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the 
       registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 
       1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991).

10.18  Consulting Agreement dated March 3, 1994 between American Express
       Travel Related Services Company, Inc. and Aldo Papone Consulting
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 of the registrant's
       Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the 
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).

10.19  Restated and Amended Agreement of Tenants-In-Common, dated May 
       27, 1994, by and among the registrant, American Express Bank    
       Ltd., American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc., 
       Lehman Brothers Inc., Lehman Government Securities, Inc. and 
       Lehman Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated by reference 
       to Exhibit 10.1 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s Transition 
       Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the 
       transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.20  Tax Allocation Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, between Lehman 
       Brothers  Holdings Inc. and the registrant (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s 
       Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for 
       the transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.21  Intercompany Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, between the 
       registrant and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s 
       Transition Report on Form 10-K 1994 (Commission File No. 1-9466) 
       for the transition period from January 1, 1994 to  November 30, 
       1994).

10.22  Purchase and Exchange Agreement, dated April 28, 1994, between 
       Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the registrant (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.29 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s 
       Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for 
       the transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).


                               E-3


10.23  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 27, 1994, between 
       the registrant and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.30 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s 
       Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for 
       the transition period from  January 1, 1994 to November 30, 
       1994).

10.24  Option Agreement, dated May 27, 1994, by and among the 
       registrant, American Express Bank Ltd., American Express Travel 
       Related Services Company, Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 
       Lehman Brothers Inc., Lehman Government Securities, Inc. and 
       Lehman Commercial Paper Incorporated (incorporated by reference 
       to Exhibit 10.31 of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s Transition 
       Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the 
       transition period from January 1, 1994 to November 30, 1994).

10.25  1994 Agreement, dated April 28, 1994, between the registrant, 
       Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Nippon Life Insurance Company 
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 of Lehman Brothers 
       Holdings Inc.'s Transition Report on Form 10-K (Commission File 
       No. 1-9466) for the transition period from January 1, 1994 to 
       November 30, 1994).

10.26  1990 Agreement, dated as of June 12, 1990, by and between the
       registrant and Nippon Life Insurance Company (incorporated by 
       reference to Exhibit 10.25 of Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings 
       Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) 
       for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990).

10.27  Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of March 12, 1993 between Smith
       Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Incorporated, Primerica Corporation 
       and Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. (incorporated by reference to 
       Exhibit 10.16 of Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.'s Annual 
       Report on Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-9466) for the fiscal 
       year ended December 31, 1992).

10.28  American Express Company 1993 Directors' Stock Option Plan
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28.2 of the registrant's
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for 
       the quarter ended March 31, 1993).

10.29  Description of separate pension arrangement between the 
       registrant and George L. Farr (incorporated by reference to 
       Exhibit 10.33 of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 
       10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1995).

10.30  American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan (incorporated by
       reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the registrant's Quarterly Report on 
       Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended June 
       30, 1994).
                               E-4


10.31  Amendment of American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan.
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the registrant's
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for 
       the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.32  Amendment of American Express Company Key Executive Life 
       Insurance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the 
       registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File 
       No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.33  Amendment of American Express Company Salary/Bonus Deferral Plan
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the registrant's
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for 
       the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.34  Amendment of Long-Term Incentive Awards under the American 
       Express Company 1979 and 1989 Long-Term Incentive Plans 
       (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of the registrant's 
       Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for 
       the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.35  IDS Current Service Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by
       reference to Exhibit 10.42 of the registrant's Annual Report on 
       Form 10-K (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended 
       December 31, 1994).

10.36  Amended and Restated American Express Supplemental Retirement 
       Plan  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the 
       registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 
       1-7657) for the quarter ended March 31, 1995).

10.37  Agreement dated February 27, 1995 between the registrant and
       Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
       10.43  of the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission
       File No. 1-7657) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

10.38  Agreement dated July 20, 1995 between the registrant and 
       Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and its subsidiaries (incorporated by  
       reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the registrant's Quarterly Report on 
       Form 10-Q (Commission File No. 1-7657) for the quarter ended 
       September 30, 1995).

*11    Computation of Earnings Per Share.

*12.1  Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

*12.2  Computation in Support of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and 
       Preferred Share Dividends.

 

                               E-5


*13    Portions of the registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders 
       that are incorporated herein by reference.

*21    Subsidiaries of the registrant.

*23    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP (contained on page F-2 of this 
       Annual Report on Form 10-K).

*27    Financial Data Schedule.

































                               E-6



