
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                   FORM 10-K
       For Fiscal Year Ended: December 31, 1997 Commission File No.17533
       -----------------------------------------------------------------

                        FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST
                        -------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 District of Columbia                    52-0782497
       -----------------------------------------------------------------
          (State or other jurisdiction of                (I.R.S. Employer
           incorporation or organization)               identification No.)

            1626 East Jefferson Street, Rockville, Maryland  20852
      ------------------------------------------------------------------
          (Address of principal executive offices)          (Zip Code)

                                (301) 998-8100
     --------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                Name of Each Exchange
Title of Each Class                             on Which Registered
- -------------------                             ---------------------
Common Shares of Beneficial Interest            New York Stock Exchange
Common Stock Purchase Rights                    New York Stock Exchange
7.95% Series A Cumulative Redeemable
  Preferred Shares                              New York Stock Exchange

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
6.82% Medium-Term Notes
7.48% Senior Debentures
8 7/8% Senior Notes                                                    
8% Senior Notes
6 5/8% Senior Notes
Subordinated Debt Securities*
* None issued, registered pursuant to a shelf registration

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x   No _____.
                                              -----           

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [x]
     
     At February 23, 1998, the aggregate market value of Common Shares of
Beneficial Interest of Federal Realty Investment Trust held by nonaffiliates was
$1.0 billion based upon the closing price of such Shares on the New York Stock
Exchange.

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer's classes
of common stock.

Class                                           Outstanding at February 23, 1998
- -----                                           --------------------------------
Common Shares of Beneficial Interest                        39,772,422

 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                      -----------------------------------


PART III
- --------

     Portions of the Trust's Proxy Statement in connection with its Annual
     Meeting to be held on May 6, 1998 (hereinafter called "1998 Proxy
     Statement"). Specifically, the Sections entitled "Summary Compensation
     Table", "Employment Agreements", "Aggregated Option Exercises in 1997 and
     December 31, 1997 Option Values", "Retirement and Disability Plans", and
     "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", "Ownership
     of Shares by Trustees and Officers", and "Certain Transactions" appearing
     in the 1998 Proxy Statement are incorporated herein by reference.



     The Exhibit Index for this report is found on page 29.
This report, including Exhibits, contains 323 pages.


 
PART I & II
- -----------

Item 1.   Business
- -------   --------


     Federal Realty Investment Trust is an owner, operator and redeveloper of
retail properties.  Founded in 1962 as a District of Columbia business trust of
unlimited duration, the Trust is a self-administered equity real estate
investment trust.  The Trust consolidates the financial statements of various
entities which it controls. At December 31, 1997 the Trust owned 101 retail
properties and one apartment complex.

     The Trust operates in a manner intended to enable it to qualify as a real
estate investment trust (REIT) under Sections 856- 860 of the Internal Revenue
Code.  Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least 95% of its real
estate investment trust taxable income to its shareholders each year and which
meets certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its taxable
income which is distributed to its shareholders.  Therefore, no provision for
Federal income taxes is required.

     An important part of the Trust's strategy is to acquire older, well-located
properties in prime, densely populated and affluent areas and to enhance their
operating performance through a program of renovation, expansion,
reconfiguration and retenanting. The Trust's traditional focus has been on
community and neighborhood shopping centers that are anchored by supermarkets,
drug stores or high volume, value oriented retailers that provide consumer
necessities. Late in 1994 the Trust expanded this strategy to include retail
buildings and shopping centers in prime established main street shopping areas.
The Trust continually evaluates its properties for renovation, retenanting and
expansion opportunities. Similarly, the Trust regularly reviews its portfolio
and from time to time considers selling certain of its properties. For several
years the Trust has been seeking sites in its core markets suitable for the
construction of new retail properties. Several sites have been identified and
beginning in 1998 the Trust is focusing considerable time and resources on
ground up development.

     The Trust's portfolio of properties has grown from 42 as of January 1, 1993
to 102 at December 31, 1997.  During this five year period the Trust acquired 65
retail properties for approximately $648 million.  During this same period five
shopping centers were sold. Also during this period the Trust spent over $224
million to renovate, expand, improve and retenant its properties.  The majority
of the acquisitions were funded with cash.  Of the properties not fully acquired
by cash, one was acquired by means of capital and ground leases, one was
acquired for common shares of the Trust and the assumption of a mortgage, one
was acquired for cash and the assumption of a municipal bond issue and the
others were acquired for cash with  minority investments by third parties. This
growth was financed through borrowing and equity offerings, since each year the
Trust has distributed all or the majority of its cash provided by operating
activities to its shareholders.


 
    The Trust's 101 retail properties, consisting of 56 shopping centers and 45
main street retail properties, are located in 14 states and the District of
Columbia.  Twenty-one of the properties  are located in the  Washington, D.C.
metropolitan area; nineteen are in California; fourteen are in Connecticut;
eleven are in Pennsylvania, primarily in the Philadelphia area; ten are in New
Jersey; seven are in Illinois; three are in Virginia; four are in Massachusetts;
six are in New York; two are in Florida;  and there is one in each of the
following states:  Georgia, Michigan,  North Carolina and Oregon.  No single
property accounts for over 10% of the Trust's revenues.

     The Trust has approximately 2,175 tenants, ranging from sole proprietors to
major national retailers; no one tenant or corporate group of tenants accounts
for 5% or more of revenue.  The Trust's leases with these tenants are classified
as operating leases and typically are structured to include minimum rents,
percentage rents based on tenants' sales volumes and reimbursement of certain
operating expenses and real estate taxes.

     The Trust continues to seek older, well-located shopping centers and retail
buildings to acquire  and then to enhance their revenue potential through a
program of renovation, retenanting and remerchandising.  The Trust has also
located sites where it intends to develop new retail properties.  During each of
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, retail properties have
contributed 96% of the Trust's total revenue.

     The Trust amended its by-laws in 1996 to permit investments west of the
Mississippi River.  Investments are not required to be based on specific
allocation by type of property.  The extent to which the Trust might mortgage or
otherwise finance investments varies with the investment involved and the
economic climate.

     The success of the Trust depends upon, among other factors, the trends of
the economy, including interest rates, construction costs, retailing trends,
income tax laws, increases or decreases in operating expenses, governmental
regulations, population trends, zoning laws, legislation and the ability of the
Trust to keep its properties leased at profitable levels.  The Trust competes
for tenants with other real estate owners and the Trust's properties account for
only a small fraction of the retail space available for lease.  The Trust
competes for investment opportunities and debt and equity capital with
individuals, partnerships, corporations, financial institutions, life insurance
companies, pension funds, trust funds and other real estate investment trusts.

     Investments in real property create a potential for environmental liability
on the part of the current and previous owners of, or any mortgage lender on,
such real property.  If hazardous substances are discovered on or emanating from
any property, the owner or operator of the property may be held liable for costs
and liabilities relating to such hazardous substances.  The Trust has
environmental insurance on 65 of its properties.  Subject to certain exclusions
and deductibles, the


 
insurance provides coverage for unidentified, pre-existing conditions and for
future contamination caused by tenants and third parties.

     The Trust's current policy is to require an environmental study on each
property it seeks to acquire.  On recent acquisitions, any substances identified
prior to closing which present an immediate environmental hazard have been or
are in the process of remediation.  Costs related to the abatement of asbestos
which increase the value of Trust properties are capitalized.  Other costs are
expensed.  In 1997 and 1996 approximately $1.3 million and $970,000,
respectively, of which $732,000 and $540,000, respectively, was capitalized
abatement costs, was spent on environmental matters.  The Trust has budgeted
approximately $2.5 million for 1998 for environmental matters, a majority of
which is projected for asbestos abatement.  (See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.)


Current Developments
- --------------------

     In 1997 the Trust acquired eighteen retail properties at a cost of $258.2
million. Five shopping centers were acquired: San Jose Town & Country Village in
San Jose, California for $42.8 million which is to be developed into a main
street project; Pike 7 Shopping Center in Tysons Corner, Virginia for $31.5
million; Magruder's and Courthouse Centers in Rockville, Maryland for a combined
price of $12.6 million; and Peninsula Shopping Center in Palos Verdes,
California for $43.5 million. Thirteen main street retail properties were
acquired: six properties in California for approximately $40.2 million; five
properties in New York for approximately $65.3 million; one property in
Portland, Oregon for $15.7 million; and one property in Chicago, Illinois for
$4.2 million. In addition the Trust invested $10.4 million in mortgage notes
receivable, most of which are convertible into ownership interests in the
properties by which they are secured.

     Other real estate transactions during 1997 included the purchase of land
underlying four of its properties for approximately $14.4 million.  The land had
previously been leased.  The Trust also purchased two tracts of land in
Bethesda, Maryland for future development for approximately $6.6 million.

     During 1997 the Trust spent $50.3 million in renovating, expanding and
retenanting its properties.  These improvements included $9.4 million on the
redevelopment of Wynnewood Shopping Center; $5.1 million on the second phase of
the redevelopment of Brick Plaza; $4.5 million on the redevelopment of Troy
Shoppping Center; $2.3 million on the redevelopment of Crossroads Shopping
Center; and $3.1 million on the redevelopment of Gratiot Plaza.

     The Trust initially funded the majority of its 1997 acquisitions, capital
improvement projects and investments in mortgages with borrowings under its
revolving credit facilities. Borrowings on these revolving credit facilities
were then repaid from long term debt and equity issues. On February 4, 1997 the
Trust sold 3 million common shares to an institutional investor for $28 per
share, netting $83.9 million. On July 29, 1997 the


 
Trust sold $40 million of 6.82% Medium Term Notes, netting $39.8 million.  On
October 6, 1997 the Trust issued 4 million 7.95% Series A Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares at $25 per share in a public offering, netting approximately
$96.8 million.

     At December 31, 1997 the Trust had 221 full-time employees.



Item 2. Properties
- ------------------

Retail Properties
- -----------------
  The following table sets forth information concerning each retail property in
  which the Trust owns an equity interest or has a leasehold interest as of
  December 31, 1997. Except as otherwise noted, retail properties are 100% owned
  in fee by the Trust.

 


 
 



                                                        




 
          






 

(1)   Overall occupancy is expressed as a percentage of rentable square feet and
      includes square feet covered by leases for stores not yet opened. Economic
      occupancy is expressed as a percentage of rentable square feet, but only
      includes leases currently generating rental income.
(2)   The Trust has a leasehold interest in this property.
(3)   The Trust owns a 99.9% partnership interest in this center.
(4)   The Trust owns a 55.7% equity interest in this center.
(5)   The Trust owns this property in a "downreit" partnership.
(6)   The Trust owns this property subject to a ground lease.
(7)   The Trust owns the controlling interest in this center. A minority owner
      has an interest in the profits of the center.
(8)   The Trust has a 1% general partnership interest and manages the
      partnership. A 99% interest was sold to a limited partner.
(9)   The Trust owns the general partnership interest in these buildings.
(10)  The property is currently under redevelopment
(11)  Occupancy is based on four occupied buildings. The other three buildings
      are under redevelopment.
(12)  All buildings are under redevelopment.
(13)  Occupancy is based on one occupied building. The other building is under
      redevelopment.


Apartments
- ----------

The following table sets forth information concerning the Trust's apartment
development as of December 31, 1997 which is 100% owned by the Trust in fee.
This development is not subject to rent control.

 



Apartments
- ----------

The following table sets forth information concerning the Trust's apartment
development as of December 31, 1997 which is 100% owned by the Trust in fee.
This development is not subject to rent control.

 



 
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.
- ------    ----------------- 

     None

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
- ------    ---------------------------------------------------

     None


Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.
- ------    --------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Market Quotations



     The number of holders of record for Federal Realty's common shares of
beneficial interest at December 31, 1997 was 7,505.

     For the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, $.19 and $.21,
respectively, of dividends paid on common shares represented a return of
capital.

     Dividends declared on common shares per quarter during the last two fiscal
years were as follows:



     The Trust's common shares of beneficial interest are listed on the New York
Stock Exchange.


 
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.
          ----------------------- 

In thousands, except per share data

 


 
 

(1) Determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement
No. 95.

(2) Defined as income available for common shareholders before  depreciation and
amortization of real estate assets and before extraordinary items and
significant nonrecurring events less gains on sale of real estate. Funds from
operations differs from net cash provided by operating activities primarily
because funds from operations does not include changes in operating assets and
liabilities.  Funds from operations is a supplemental measure of performance
that does not replace net income as a measure of performance or net cash
provided by operating activities as a measure of liquidity.


 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

     Federal Realty meets its liquidity requirements through net cash provided
by operating activities, long term borrowing through debt offerings and
mortgages, medium and short term borrowing under revolving credit facilities,
and equity offerings. Because  a significant portion of the Trust's net cash
provided by operating activities is distributed to shareholders, capital outlays
for property acquisitions, renovation projects and debt repayments require
funding from borrowing or equity offerings.

     Operating activities generated $72.2 million in 1997, $65.6 million in 1996
and $65.1 million in 1995 of which $62.6 million, $52.1 million, and $47.9
million, respectively, was distributed to shareholders. Net cash provided by
operating activities increased from $65.6 million in 1996 to $72.2 million in
1997, principally due to an $11.4 million increase in income before gain on sale
of real estate and a $3.2 million increase in depreciation and amortization
offset by a $7.2 million increase in cash used for operating activities such as
accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and accounts payable. Net cash provided by
operating activities  increased from $65.1 million in 1995 to $65.6 million in
1996, due principally to a $5.6 million increase in net income  and a
$3.4 million increase in depreciation and amortization offset by an  $8.5
million increase in cash used for operating activities such as accounts
receivable and prepaid expenses.

     During the three year period 1995 through 1997, the Trust expended over
$568 million in cash to acquire properties and to improve its properties.  In
addition, during the same period the Trust invested approximately $25 million in
mortgage notes receivable, many of which are convertible into ownership
interests in the properties by which they are secured. These expenditures were
primarily funded from the proceeds of various debt and equity transactions.

     Over the past three years, the Trust expanded its acquisition efforts by
entering new geographic markets, primarily on the West Coast, by entering new
product markets with its acquisition of main street retail properties in
addition to shopping centers, and by increasing the volume of acquisitions.  In
1997 the Trust acquired thirteen main street retail properties and five shopping
centers at an initial cost of $258.2 million.  On January 22, 1997 the Trust
purchased a 5,000 square foot retail building in Chicago, Illinois for cash of
$4.2 million.  On March 31, 1997 one of two partnerships, formed to purchase
property in California, purchased a 15,000 square foot building in Santa Monica,
California for $4.0 million and the other purchased a 20,000 square foot
building in San Diego, California for $850,000.  On September 17, 1997 the
latter partnership purchased a second building in Hermosa Beach, California for
approximately $1.5 million in cash.  On April 17, 1997 a partnership, which the
Trust had organized in December 1996, exercised its purchase option on a retail
building in Santa Monica, California.  The total cost, including the buyout of
the existing tenant, was $7.1 million.  In accordance with the provisions of the


 
three partnership agreements, the Trust contributed 90% of the purchase costs to
the partnerships with the other 10% being contributed by the minority partners.

     In 1997 two limited liability companies, 90% owned by the Trust, were
formed to acquire property in New York. On August 28, 1997, one of the
companies acquired three buildings in Forest Hills, New York for approximately
$12.6 million.  On December 16, 1997 the other company purchased a fourth
building in Forest Hills for $3.4 million.  The Trust contributed 90% of the
acquisiton costs in cash to the limited liability companies.

     On September 26, 1997 the Trust purchased the Uptown Shopping Center in
Portland, Oregon which consists of 72,000 square feet of retail space and 47
apartment units for $15.7 million.  The Trust funded the acquisition of Uptown
with proceeds from the sale of other properties.  On October 22, 1997 a limited
liability company organized by the Trust acquired the Old Town Center in Los
Gatos, California for approximately $6.2 million.  The property is currently
under development.  The Trust contributed all but $400,000 of the purchase price
and will contribute all amounts necessary to fund the development.  The minority
partner has an interest in the profits of the property after the Trust receives
a stated return on its investment in the property.  On October 23, 1997 the
Trust purchased, for $20.5 million, a 109,000 square foot mixed use retail and
office building located at 150 Post Street in San Francisco, California.  On
December 5, 1997 the Trust purchased the retail portion of the Fresh Meadows
complex in Queens, New York for $49.3 million.  The 417,000 square foot retail
component consists of main street retail shops and two neighborhood strip
shopping centers.

     On March 5, 1997 the Trust, through a limited liability company organized
by the Trust, purchased the 320,000 square foot San Jose Town & Country Village
Shopping Center in San Jose, California for $42.8 million in cash.  Plans call
for the current shopping center to be demolished to allow the site to be
developed into a main street property.  The other member of the limited
liability company has a minor interest in the profits.  On March 31, 1997 the
159,000 square foot Pike 7 Shopping Center in Tysons Corner, Virginia was
purchased for $31.5 million by a partnership formed to own the center.  The
Trust contributed $30.9 million to the partnership which was used to pay off
existing debt on the center.  The other partners contributed the shopping center
and its existing debt in exchange for partnership units valued at $495,000 which
are exchangeable, at the option of the Trust, for cash or 18,074 common shares
of the Trust.

     On December 17, 1997 a limited partnership, Federal Realty Partners L.P.,
organized by the Trust acquired the Magruder's Center and the Courthouse Center,
both located in Rockville, Maryland, for $12.6 million.  The seller contributed
the properties to the limited partnership and received 481,378 partnership units
valued at $12.3 million and the Trust contributed $400,000 in cash.  The
partnership units are exchangeable, at the option of the Trust, for cash or
common shares of the Trust.  On December 29, 1997 the Trust purchased the
295,000 square foot Peninsula Shopping Center located in the Los Angeles,
California suburb of Palos Verdes for a cash purchase price of $43.5 million.


 
     The Trust made several other real estate acquisitions in 1997.  On January
6, the Trust purchased the fee interest in Shillington, Troy and Feasterville
Shopping Centers for $1.9 million, $5.7 million and $2.2 million, respectively.
The Trust also contracted to purchase the fee interest in Lawrence Park Shopping
Center in June 1998 for $8.5 million.  In connection with the purchase agreement
for Lawrence Park, the Trust, in January 1997, lent the seller $8.4 million at
8% which is due in June 1998.  The Trust previously held these properties under
capital leases.  On February 24, 1997 the Trust purchased a 16 acre tract of
land underlying part of the Shops at Willow Lawn for $4.6 million in cash.  On
June 3, 1997 the Trust exercised its purchase option on a parcel of land
adjacent to its Bethesda Row property in Bethesda, Maryland for $5.8 million in
cash.  The land will be used for future development.  In connection with the
purchase, a $3.6 million mortgage which the Trust had made to the seller in 1996
was repaid.  On July 16, 1997 the Trust purchased a 3,750 square foot parcel of
land in Bethesda, Maryland for approximately $800,000.  The land, on which there
is a vacant retail building, was purchased in order to allow future expansion of
the Trust's Bethesda Row property.  Proceeds from the sale of other Trust
properties were used to fund the acquisition of the two Bethesda purchases.

     In 1997 the Trust invested $50.3 million in improvements to its properties;
these improvements included: (1) $9.4 million for the redevelopment of Wynnewood
Shopping Center; (2) $5.1 million for the second phase of the redevelopment of
Brick Plaza; (3) $4.5 million for the redevelopment of Troy Shopping Center; (4)
$2.3 million for the redevelopment of Crossroads Shopping Center; and (5) $3.1
million for the redevelopment of Gratiot Plaza.

     On April 24, 1997 the Trust purchased Terranomics Retail Services, a
property management and brokerage company, for approximately $2.0 million, to
provide it with leasing and property management services on the west coast.

     In 1996 the Trust acquired $105.6 million of retail property, comprised of
three shopping centers and fourteen retail buildings.    On October 1, the Trust
acquired Saugus Plaza Shopping Center, located in metropolitan Boston,
Massachusetts for $12.7 million in cash.  On October 29, 1996 Wynnewood Shopping
Center in suburban Philadelphia, Pennsylvania was purchased for a total cash
cost of $21.8 million.  On December 31, 1996 the Trust acquired the controlling
interest in a Limited Liability Company formed to own Escondido Promenade in
suburban San Diego, California for $14.2 million in cash.  The $23.5 million
center is encumbered by $9.4 million of municipal bonds.  The bonds, which
mature October 1, 2016, bear interest at a variable rate determined weekly to be
the interest rate which would enable the bonds to be remarketed at 100% of their
principal amount.  The bonds are redeemable on demand by the holders and if they
cannot be resold, will be due.  The other member of the Limited Liability
Company, who is related to the developer of the property, has a minor interest
in the profits of the company.

     On February 28, 1996 the Trust purchased, for cash, two retail buildings in
Winter Park, Florida for a cost of $6.8 million.  In


 
1996 the Trust purchased two buildings in Greenwich, Connecticut, one for $3.2
million in cash on May 6 and another for $9.5 million in cash on June 4.  On
December 31, 1996 the Trust made an investment of $17.6 million for the general
partnership interest in two partnerships, one of which owns ten  main street
retail buildings and the other of which owned a purchase option on a street
retail building.  The ten buildings, valued at $28 million, are located in
Pasadena, Santa Monica and San Diego, California.  Nine of the ten buildings are
scheduled to be renovated and retenanted.  The Trust is contributing 90% of
future capital costs.  The limited partners who contributed $10.4 million to the
partnerships will receive a cumulative return of $762,000 per year.  All
remaining income and cash available for distribution will be allocated 90% to
the Trust and 10% to the minority partners until each receives a return of 10%
on its deemed investment and then 60% to the Trust and 40% to the minority
partner.

     During 1996 the Trust invested $42.4 million in improvements to its
properties;  these improvements included: (1) $11.5 on the final tenant work and
construction of an additional 30,000 square feet at Congressional Plaza, which
includes the Trust's corporate offices;    (2) $4.7 million on the redevelopment
and expansion of a portion of Bethesda Row; (3) $3.9 million on the
redevelopment of Brick Plaza which was begun in 1995; and (4) $2.3 million to
buy out below market leases.

    The Trust purchased 19 retail properties during 1995 for a total cost of
$120.6 million.  The Trust also purchased a building abutting Flourtown Shopping
Center, one of its existing centers, for $3.1 million.  Finley Square Shopping
Center in suburban Chicago was purchased on April 27, 1995 for $18.8 million in
cash; Bristol Shopping Center in Bristol, Connecticut was purchased on September
22, 1995 for $19.6 million, by assuming a $11.3 million mortgage and by issuing
337,527 common shares valued at $7.3 million with the balance in cash; Park &
Shop Center in Washington, D.C. was purchased on December 1, 1995 for $11.2
million in cash; and on December 21, 1995 Shirlington Shopping Center in
Arlington, Virginia was purchased for $23.5 million in cash.  The retail
building acquisitions during 1995 were as follows: seven buildings in West
Hartford, Connecticut for $15.3 million; two buildings in Greenwich, Connecticut
for $14.9 million; one building in Westport, Connecticut for $5.7 million; one
building in Brookline, Massachusetts for $3.8 million; one building in
Westfield, New Jersey for $2.2 million; two buildings in Evanston, Illinois for
$3.6 million and one building in Bethesda, Maryland, for $2.0 million.

     During 1995, $33.8 million was expended on improvements to Trust
properties.  These improvements included: (1)$3.8 million on the redevelopment
of Congressional Plaza in Rockville, Maryland;  (2)$5.5 million to complete the
redevelopment and retenanting of Gaithersburg Square in Gaithersburg, Maryland;
and (3)$5.8 million for the first phase of the renovation of Brick Plaza in
Brick, New Jersey.

     The majority of these acquisitions and improvements, as well as  debt
repayment requirements, were initially financed with borrowings under the
Trust's revolving credit facilities.  The Trust uses these credit facilities to
fund acquisitions and other cash requirements


 
until conditions are favorable for issuing equity or long term debt.  In
December 1997 the Trust replaced its unsecured medium term revolving credit
facilities with four banks with a five year syndicated line, thereby increasing
the aggregate amount available from $135 million to $300 million and decreasing
the interest rate from LIBOR plus 75 basis points to LIBOR plus 65 basis points.
The sydicated line, as did the prior credit facilities, requires fees and has
various covenants including the maintenance of a minimum shareholders' equity
and a maximum ratio of debt to net worth.  At December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
$114.8 million, $59.4 million and $40.1 million, respectively, was borrowed
under these facilities. The maximum amount borrowed under these facilities
during 1997, 1996 and 1995 was $114.8 million, $76.2 million and $66.8 million,
respectively.  The weighted average interest rate on borrowings during 1997,
1996 and 1995 was 6.5%, 6.4%, and 6.9%, respectively.

     Borrowings on these revolving credit facilities were repaid from a variety
of long term debt and equity issues.  On February 4, 1997 the Trust sold 3
million common shares to an institutional investor for $28 per share, netting
$83.9 million.  On July 29, 1997 the Trust sold $40 million of 6.82% Medium Term
Notes, netting approximately $39.8 million.  On October 6, 1997 the Trust issued
4 million 7.95% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares at $25 per share
in a public offering, netting approximately $96.8 million.

     In August 1996 the Trust issued $50.0 million of 7.48% Debentures due
August 15, 2026, netting approximately $49.8 million. The debentures, which pay
interest semiannually on February 15 and August 15, are redeemable at par at the
option of the holders on August 15, 2008 and by the Trust at any time
thereafter. On May 24, 1996 the Trust sold 1.8 million shares at $22 per share
to an institutional investor, netting approximately $39.3 million. On December
13, 1996 the Trust sold another 1.6 million shares to the public at $27 7/8 per
share, netting $42.9 million.

     During 1995 the Trust issued $165 million of senior notes: $100.0 million
at 8 7/8% interest in January, netting proceeds of approximately $98.9 million;
$25.0 million at 8% interest in April, netting approximately $24.9 million; and
$40.0 million at 6 5/8% interest in December, netting approximately $39.6
million. In January 1995 the Trust repaid a $22.5 million mortgage which had
been borrowed in 1994 and a $1.1 million note issued in connection with the
purchase of Queen Anne Plaza in 1994.

     In order to minimize the risk of changes in interest rates, in connection
with certain debt issues the Trust enters into interest rate hedge agreements.
The cost or gain on the hedges is recognized as a component of interest expense
over the life of the financing. There were no open agreements at December 31,
1997, but in January 1998 the Trust purchased a Treasury Yield Hedge (notional
amount of $50 million) in anticipation of a planned refinancing.  The agreement
terminates on March 11, 1998.

     The Trust has budgeted approximately $75.0 million for capital
improvements to its properties in 1998.  These improvements include: (1) $12.0
million for the redevelopment of Old Town Center; (2) $9.7 million to renovate
and retenant certain of the San Diego and Santa Monica main street retail
properties; (3) $6.7 million to


 
renovate Feasterville Shopping Center; and (4) $4.1 million to complete the
renovation and expansion of Gratiot Plaza.

     The Trust's long term debt has varying maturity dates and in a number of
instances includes balloon payments or other contractual provisions that could
require significant repayments during a particular period.  Balloon mortgage
obligations of $53.5 million are due in 1998.

     The Trust plans to acquire additional shopping centers and  main street
retail buildings. Additionally, the Trust has located sites in its core markets
where it intends to build new retail properties.

     The Trust will need additional capital in order to fund these acquisitions,
expansions, developments and refinancings.  Sources of this funding may be
additional debt and additional equity.  The timing and choice between additional
debt or equity will depend upon many factors, including the market price for the
Trust's shares, interest rates and the Trust's ratio of debt to net worth. The
Trust believes, based on past experience, that it has the access to the capital
markets needed to raise this capital.

     On March 10, 1998 the Trust issued $80 million of Medium Term Notes; 
$39.5 million at 6.74% interest due in 2004 and $40.5 million at 6.99% due 
in 2006.

Contingencies
- -------------

     As previously reported, certain of the Trust's shopping centers have some
environmental contamination.  The Trust has retained an environmental consultant
to investigate  contamination at a shopping center in New Jersey.  The Trust is
evaluating whether it has insurance coverage for this matter.  Although the
Trust is still investigating the chlorinated solvent contamination in response
to NJDEP directives, information collected to date indicates that remediation of
this contamination is not likely to have a material effect upon the Trust's
financial condition. The Trust has also identified chlorinated solvent
contamination at another property. The contamination appears to be linked to the
current and/or previous dry cleaner.  The Trust intends to look to the
responsible parties for any remediation effort.  Evaluation of this situation is
preliminary and it is impossible, at this time, to estimate the range of
remediation costs, if any.

     On December 4, 1997 the Trust purchased the retail portion of a mixed use
property located in Queens, New York.  Environmental studies performed prior to
the acquisition identified petroleum and solvent contamination in the soil and
groundwater at various locations at the property.  Additional investigation as
to the nature and extent of contamination is required at this property.
Although the seller states that it is not responsible for this investigation or
remediation, the Trust disagrees and intends to pursue the seller to enforce its
obligations with respect to contamination at the property.  At this time, the
Trust is unable to determine what impact, if any, this situation will have on
the Trust's financial condition.

     Pursuant to the provisions of the respective partnership agreements, in the
event of the exercise of put options by the other partners, the Trust would be
required to purchase the 99% limited


 
partnership interest at Loehmann's Plaza at its then fair market value and an
18.75% interest at Congressional Plaza at its then fair market value.

     Under the terms of certain partnerships, if certain leasing and revenue
levels are obtained for the properties,  the limited partners may require the
Trust to purchase their partnership interests at a formula price based upon net
operating income.  The purchase price may be paid in cash or common shares of
the Trust, at the election of the limited partners.  If the limited partners do
not redeem their interest, the Trust may choose to purchase the limited
partnership interests upon the same terms. Under the terms of another
partnership, the partners may exchange their 481,378 operating partnership units
into cash or common shares of the Trust, at the option of the Trust.

     The Trust is currently working to resolve the potential impact of the year
2000 on the processing of information by the Trust's computerized information
systems as well as the potential impact on the operations of its real estate
properties by computerized components of its buildings' operating systems.
Based on preliminary information, costs of addressing and solving potential
problems are not expected to have a material adverse impact on the Trust's
financial position.  However, if the Trust's vendors are unable to resolve
certain processing issues surrounding services and parts supplied to the Trust's
properties, there could be a financial risk.  The Trust is making plans to
resolve its significant year 2000 issues in a timely manner.


Results of Operations
- ---------------------

     Net income and funds from operations have been affected by the Trust's
recent acquisition, redevelopment and financing activities.  The Trust has
historically reported its funds from operations in addition to its net income
and net cash provided by operating activities.  Funds from operations is a
supplemental measure of real estate companies' operating performance which
excludes historical cost depreciation, since real estate values have
historically risen and fallen with market conditions rather than over time.  The
National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines funds
from operations as follows: income available for common shareholders before
depreciation and amortization of real estate assets and before extraordinary
items and significant non-recurring events less gains on sale of real estate.
Funds from operations does not replace net income as a measure of performance or
net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of liquidity.  Rather,
funds from operations has been adopted by real estate investment trusts to
provide a consistent measure of operating performance in the industry.


 
     The reconciliation of net income to funds from operations is as follows:



     The Trust's retail leases generally provide for minimum rents with periodic
increases.  Most retail tenants pay a majority of on-site operating expenses and
real estate taxes.  Many leases also contain a percentage rent clause which
calls for additional rents based on tenant sales, so that at a given sales
volume, if prices increase, so does rental income.  These features in the Trust
leases reduce the Trust's exposure to higher costs caused by inflation, although
inflation has not been significant in recent years.

1997 VS. 1996

     Rental income, which consists of minimum rent, percentage rent and cost
recoveries, increased 14.3% in 1997 to $188.5 million from $164.9 million in
1996. If properties acquired and sold in 1996 and 1997 are excluded, rental
income increased 4.8%. Minimum rents increased 13.8% in 1997 from $131.5 million
in 1996 to $149.6 million in 1997. If properties acquired and sold in 1996 and
1997 are excluded, minimum rents increased 3.9%. Thirty-nine percent of the
increase in minimum rent in 1997 was from Brick Plaza, Congressional Plaza and
Bethesda Row, all of which have recently been redeveloped and retenanted. Cost
reimbursements consist of tenant reimbursements of real estate taxes (real
estate tax recovery) and common area maintenance expenses (CAM recovery). After
removing the effect of properties acquired and sold in 1996 and 1997, real
estate tax recovery increased 6%, principally due to reassessments on recently
renovated and purchased properties. CAM recovery, excluding 1996 and 1997
acquisitions and dispositions, increased 14% from 1996 to 1997, principally due
to increased recovery from properties recently purchased or under redevelopment
in 1996.

     Other property income includes items which tend to fluctuate from period to
period, such as utility reimbursements, telephone income, merchant association
dues, lease termination fees, late fees and temporary tenant income.  Other
income was down slightly in 1997 from 1996 and if properties acquired and sold
in 1996 and 1997 were excluded, other income was down $1.5 million, principally
due to a decrease in lease termination fees.
 


 
     Rental expenses rose from $40.7 million in 1996 to $42.8 million in 1997
which represents 21.6% of property income (rental income plus other property
income) in 1997 and 23.3% in 1996. If rental expenses are adjusted to remove the
effect of properties purchased and sold in 1996 and 1997, rental expenses
decreased from $38.9 million in 1996 to $38.1 million in 1997. The primary
reason for the decrease from 1996 to 1997 was a decrease in snow removal and
other related expenses, such as roof and parking lot repairs. Real estate taxes,
which increased from $16.4 million in 1996 to $19.5 million in 1997 primarily
due to properties acquired but also due to increased assessments on recent
renovations, remained fairly constant as a percentage of property income, 9.8%
in 1997 and 9.4% in 1996.

     Depreciation and amortization expenses have increased because of the recent
acquisitions and also because of the depreciation on recent tenant work and
property improvements.
 
     Interest income increased from $4.4 million in 1996 to $6.0 million in
1997, primarily because of interest on the mortgage notes receivable issued in
1996 and 1997. Interest expense rose to $47.3 million in 1997 from $45.6 million
in 1996, due to interest on the $50 million of senior debentures issued in
August 1996, due to interest on the $40 million of medium term notes issued in
August 1997, and due to interest from increased usage of the revolving credit
facilities, partially offset by an increase in interest capitalized on
development projects. The ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and
preferred dividends was 1.64x in 1997; there were no preferred dividends in
1996. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 1.70x in 1997 and 1.59x in
1996. The ratio of funds from operations to fixed charges was 2.47x in 1997 and
2.35x in 1996.

     Administrative expenses have increased from $9.1 million in 1996 to $9.8
million in 1997 primarily due to increased personnel costs as the Trust has
grown and as it has accelerated its acquisition and development efforts.
Administrative expenses as a percentage of total income, however, have dropped
from  5.1% in 1996 to 4.8% in 1997.

     In 1997 the Trust incurred $2.0 million of nonrecurring costs associated
with a reorganization of its executive management. During the fourth quarter of
1997, the Trust's chief financial officer ("CFO"), resigned from the Trust in
order to pursue other interests. Cecily Ward, the Trust's controller for over
ten years, has temporarily assumed the CFO's responsibilities while the Trust
seeks a new chief financial officer. On December 31, 1997 the employment
agreement of the Trust's senior vice-president of acquisitions terminated.
Nathan Fishkin, the Trust's senior vice president, real estate, who has been
with the Trust for over ten years, has assumed these responsibilities. Hal A.
Vasvari, the Trust's chief operating officer, will be leaving the Trust during
the first half of 1998 to pursue other interests. Howard Biel, who has over
twenty years in the real estate development, leasing and management fields,
joined the Trust on January 2, 1998 and is assuming the responsibilities
previously handled by Mr. Vasvari.


 
     Investors' share of operations represents the minority interest in the
income of certain properties. The increase from $394,000 in 1996 to $1.3 million
in 1997 is primarily due to the fact that since 1995 the Trust has acquired some
properties in partnership with others.

     Income before gain or loss on sale of real estate increased from $28.8
million in 1996 to $40.1 million in 1997, reflecting not only the contribution
to net income from the Trust's acquisitions but also the contribution from
improved operating results of the core portfolio.

     Loss or gain on the sale of real estate is dependent on the extent and
timing of sales. The Trust regularly reviews its portfolio and does from time to
time sell properties. In May 1997 the Trust sold Town & Country Shopping Center
in Springfield, Illinois for $7.5 million, resulting in a gain of $5.3 million
and Shillington Shopping Center in Shillington, Pennsylvania for $4.6 million,
resulting in a gain of $1.7 million. On September 25, 1997 the Trust sold
Brainerd Village Shopping Center in Chattanooga, Tennessee for $10.2 million,
resulting in a loss of $659,000. In 1996 the Trust sold Town & Country Plaza in
Hammond, Louisiana for $4.9 million, resulting in a loss of $12,000.

     As a result of the foregoing items, net income rose from $28.7 million in
1996 to $46.5 million in 1997. Net income available for common shareholders was
$44.6 million in 1997 after net income was adjusted for a $1.9 million dividend
on the $100 million of 7.95% Series A Culmulative Redeemable Preferred Shares
issued on October 6, 1997.

     The Trust intends to continue acquiring retail properties in 1998. If
successful in so doing, these acquisitions should contribute to growth in rental
income and expenses and, thereby, net income. However, the competitive market
for properties may adversely impact the Trust's ability to acquire properties or
the price at which they can be acquired. In response to this increasingly
competitive environment, the Trust is planning to focus considerable time and
resources in the future on development, with the belief that such new
development, although not having a positive effect on net income and funds from
operations in the very near future, will have a positive impact in the longer
term.

     The growth of the net income from the core portfolio is, in part, dependent
on controlling expenses, some of which are beyond the complete control of the
Trust, such as snow removal, and trends in the retailing environment. The Trust
currently expects that demand for its retail space should remain at levels
similar to those in 1997. However, a weakening of the retail environment could
adversely impact the Trust, by increasing vacancies and by decreasing rents. In
past weak retail and real estate environments, the Trust has been able to
replace weak and bankrupt tenants with stronger tenants; management believes
that due to the quality of the Trust's properties there will continue to be
demand for its retail space.


 
1996 VS. 1995

     Rental income increased 15.4% in 1996 to $164.9 million from $142.8 million
in 1995. If centers acquired and sold in 1995 and 1996 are excluded, rental
income increased 6.6% from 1995 to 1996. Minimum rents increased 15.5% in 1996
to $131.5 million from $113.9 million in 1995. If centers acquired and sold in
1995 and 1996 are excluded, minimum rents increased 6.1%. Almost half of the
increase in minimum rent was from Congressional Plaza, Brick Plaza and
Gaithersburg Square, which have been redeveloped and retenanted. Cost
reimbursements consist of tenant reimbursements of real estate taxes and common
area maintenance expenses. After removing the effect of properties acquired and
sold in 1995 and 1996, real estate tax recovery increased 10.3%. Over half of
the increase from 1995 to 1996 was attributable to Congressional Plaza, Brick
Plaza and Gaithersburg Square. CAM recovery on the portfolio, adjusted to remove
the effect of properties acquired and sold in 1995 and 1996, increased from
$12.0 million in 1995 to $13.9 million in 1996, corresponding to increases in
CAM expenses in 1996 over 1995, primarily snow removal and related repairs.

     Other property income, which includes items which tend to fluctuate from
period to period, increased from $7.4 million in 1995 to $9.8 million in 1996.
The increase was due primarily to an increase in lease termination fees.

     Rental expenses increased from $35.1 million in 1995 to $40.7 million in
1996, which represents 23.4% of property income in 1995 and 23.3% in 1996.  If
rental expenses are adjusted to remove the effect of properties acquired and
sold in 1995 and 1996, rental expenses increased $2.3 million or 6.8% due to an
increase in snow related expenses and an increase in the write-off of tenant
work and lease commissions, often connected with tenants whose leases were
terminated.  Real estate taxes, while increasing with acquisitions, remained
fairly constant as a percentage of property income, 9.6% in 1995 and 9.4% in
1996.

     Depreciation and amortization expenses have increased because of the recent
acquisitions and also because of the depreciation on recent tenant work and
property improvements.

     Interest income increased slightly from $4.1 million in 1995 to $4.4
million in 1996. Increases in interest income in 1996 from the issuance of $14.3
million in mortgage notes receivable in 1996 were offset by decreases in
interest on investments in marketable securities which were sold in 1995.
Interest expense increased from $39.3 million in 1995 to $45.6 million in 1996,
due to interest on the $50 million of senior debentures issued in 1996 and the
$165 million of senior notes issued in 1995, due to interest from increased
usage of the revolving credit facilities and due to interest on the mortgage
assumed upon the purchase of Bristol Shopping Center. The ratio of earnings to
fixed charges was 1.59x in 1996 and 1.55x in 1995. The ratio of funds from
operations to fixed charges was 2.35x in both 1996 and 1995.

     Administrative expenses increased from $7.3 million in 1995 or 4.9% of
property income, to $9.1 million in 1996 or 5.2% of property income, as the
Trust grew and accelerated its acquisition and development efforts.  The $1.8
million increase from 1995 to 1996


 
was primarily due to the write-off of costs associated with unconsummated
acquisition and development efforts and due to costs related to the move of the
Trust's corporate office.

     Investors' share of operations represented the minority interest in income
of three properties during 1995 and 1996. In 1995 minority losses at two
properties exceeded the minority net income at Congressional Plaza which was
under development in 1995.

     Income before loss on real estate increased from $23.7 million in 1995 to
$28.7 million in 1996, reflecting not only the contribution to net income from
the Trust's acquisitions but also the contribution from improved operating
results of the core portfolio. In 1996 the Trust sold Town & Country Plaza in
Hammond, Lousiana for $4.9 million, resulting in a loss of $12,000 while in 1995
the Trust sold North City Plaza for $1.8 million resulting in a loss of
$545,000. As a result of the foregoing items, net income rose from $23.1 million
in 1995 to $28.7 million in 1996.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
- --------------------------------------------------- 

     Included in Item 14.

Item 9. Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
- ------------------------------------------------------------ 

     None.


 
                                   Part III
                                   --------

Item 10.Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
        ---------------------------------------------------


                     Executive Officers of the Registrant
                     ------------------------------------

     The Executive Officers in 1997 were:

 
 
Steven J. Guttman has been the Trust's President and Chief Executive Officer
since April 1980. Mr. Guttman has been associated with the Trust since 1972,
became Chief Operating Officer in 1975 and became a Managing Trustee in 1979.

Ron D. Kaplan joined the Trust in November 1992 as Vice President-Capital
Markets. Mr. Kaplan was formerly a Vice President of Salomon Brothers Inc where
he was responsible for capital raising and financial advisory services for
public and private real estate companies. While at Salomon Brothers which he
joined in 1985, he participated in two of the Trust's debt offerings.

Catherine R. Mack came to the Trust in January 1985 as General Counsel and
became a Vice President in February 1986. Before joining the Trust, Ms. Mack was
an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Columbia and, prior to
that, an attorney with Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver and Jacobson in Washington,
D.C. where she represented several local real estate entities. She has practiced
law since 1974.

Mary Jane Morrow joined the Trust in January 1987 as Vice President-Finance and
Treasurer. Before joining Federal Realty, Ms.


 
Morrow was a Partner with Grant Thornton LLP, the Trust's independent
accountants. On October 31, 1997 Ms. Morrow resigned to pursue other interests.

Hal A. Vasvari joined Federal Realty Management, Inc., the Trust's former
managing agent, in August 1985 as Executive Vice President. In January 1989, Mr.
Vasvari became Executive Vice President-Management of the Trust. In December
1994, Mr. Vasvari was appointed Chief Operating Officer. Prior to August 1985,
he was director of leasing for Kravco Co., a developer of shopping malls and
shopping centers. In 1998 Mr. Vasvari will leave the Trust to pursue other
interests.

Cecily A. Ward joined the Trust in April 1987 as Controller. Prior to joining
the Trust, Ms. Ward, a certified public accountant, was with Grant Thornton LLP,
the Trust's independent accountants.

The schedule identifying Trustees under the caption "Election of Trustees" of
the 1998 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.
- --------  -----------------------

The sections entitled "Summary Compensation Table"  and "Aggregated Option
Exercises in 1997 and December 31, 1997 Option Values" of the 1998 Proxy
Statement are incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
- --------  ---------------------------------------------------------------

The section entitled  "Ownership of Shares by Trustees and Officers" of the 1998
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
- --------  -----------------------------------------------

The section entitled "Certain Transactions" of the 1998 Proxy Statement is 
incorporated herein by reference thereto.


 
                                    Part IV
                                    -------

 


 
(a)  3.        Exhibits
               --------

     (3)  (i)       The Trust's Third Amended and Restated  Declaration of Trust
          dated May 24, 1984, filed with the Commission on July 5, 1984 as
          Exhibit 4 to the Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-2 (file No.
          2-92057) is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

          (ii)      Bylaws of the Trust, filed with the Commission as an exhibit
          to the Trust's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 20, 1985, as
          most recently amended and filed with the Commission as portions of
          Item 6 to the Trust's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
          ended September 30, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

     (4)  (i)       Specimen Share of Beneficial Interest, filed with the
          Commission on November 23, 1982 as Exhibit 4 to the Trust's
          Registration Statement on Form S-2 (file No. 2-80524), is incorporated
          herein by reference thereto.

          (ii)      Statement of Designation for Shares, filed on Form 8-K with
          the Commission on October 3, 1997, is incorporated herein by reference
          thereto.

          (iii)     The 5 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Debenture due 2002 as
          described in Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3 (File No. 33-15264), filed
          with the Commission on August 4, 1987 is incorporated herein by
          reference thereto.

          (iv)      Shareholder Rights Plan, dated April 13, 1989, filed with
          the Commission as an exhibit to the Trust's Current Report on Form 8-
          K, dated April 13, 1989, is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

          (v)       Indenture dated December 13, 1993, related to the Trust's
          7.48% Debentures due August 15, 2026, the Trust's 8 7/8% Senior Notes
          due January 15, 2000, the Trust's 8% Notes due April 21, 2002, the
          Trust's 6 5/8% Notes due 2005, and the Trust's 6.82% Medium Term Notes
          due August 1, 2027 filed with the commission on December 13, 1993 as
          exhibit 4 (a) to the Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-3, (File
          No. 33-51029) is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

          (vi)      Dividend Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan,
          dated November 3, 1995, filed with the Commission on Form S-3 on
          November 3, 1995 (File No. 33-63955) is incorporated herein by
          reference thereto.
     
     (9)  Voting Trust Agreement...............................*

     (10) (i)       Consultancy Agreement with Samuel J. Gorlitz, as amended,
          filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10 (v) to the Trust's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983, is
          incorporated herein by reference thereto.


 
          (ii)      The Trust's 1983 Stock Option Plan adopted May 12,
          1983, filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10 (vi) to the Trust's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983, is
          incorporated herein by reference.

          (iii)     Deferred Compensation Agreement with Steven J. Guttman dated
          December 13, 1978, filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10 (iv) to the
          Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1980 is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

     The following documents, filed with the Commission as portions of Exhibit
10 to the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1985, are incorporated herein by reference thereto.

          (iv)      The Trust's 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, adopted on
          September 13, 1985

     The following documents, filed with the Commission as  portions of Exhibit
10, to the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
1980, have been modified as noted below, and are incorporated herein by
reference thereto.

          (v)       Consultancy Agreement with Daniel M. Lyons dated February
          22, 1980, as amended (modified as of December 1, 1983, to provide for
          an annual cost of living increase, not to exceed 10%).

     The following documents filed as portions of Exhibit 10 to the Trust's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988 are incorporated
herein by reference thereto:

          (vi)      The 1988 Share Bonus Plan.

          (vii)     Amendment No. 3 to Consultancy Agreement with Samuel J.
          Gorlitz.

     The following documents filed with the Commission as portions of Item 6 to
the Trust's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1989
are incorporated herein by reference thereto;
 
          (viii)    Executive Agreement between the Trust and Catherine R. Mack,
          dated April 13, 1989.

          (ix)      Executive Agreement between the Trust and Mary Jane Morrow,
          dated April 13, 1989.

          (x)       Executive Agreement between the Trust and Hal A. Vasvari,
          dated April 13, 1989.

          (xi)      Employment Agreement between the Trust and Catherine R.
          Mack, dated April 13, 1989.

 


 
          (xii)     The 1991 Share Purchase Plan, dated January 31, 1991, filed
          with the Commission as a portion of Exhibit 10 to the Trust's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 is
          incorporated herein by reference thereto.

          (xiii)    Amendment No. 4 to Consultancy Agreement with Samuel J.
          Gorlitz,  filed with the Commission as an exhibit to the Trust's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 is
          incorporated herein by reference thereto.

          (xiv)     Employment and Relocation Agreement between the Trust and
          Ron D. Kaplan, dated September 30, 1992, filed  as an exhibit to the
          Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
          1992 is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

          (xv)      Amendment dated October 1, 1992, to Voting Trust Agreement
          dated as of March 3, 1989 by and between I. Wolford Berman and Dennis
          L. Berman filed as an exhibit to the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-
          K for the year ended December 31, 1992 is incorporated herein by
          reference thereto.

          (xvi)     Federal Realty Investment Trust Amended and Restated 1993
          Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended on October 6, 1997, filed with
          the Commission as portions of Item 6 to the Trust's Quarterly Report
          on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997, are
          incorporated herein by reference thereto.

The following documents, filed with the Commission as portions of Item 6 to the
Trust's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 1993 are incorporated herein by reference thereto:

          (xvii)    Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of September 1, 1993
          among Federal Realty Investment Trust and Corestates Bank.

          (xviii)   Credit Agreement dated as of August 25, 1993 between Federal
          Realty Investment Trust and First Union National Bank of Virginia.

          (xix)     Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of June 22,   1993
          between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Signet Bank/Maryland.

          (xx)      Consulting Agreement between Misner Development and Federal
          Realty Investment Trust.

          (xxi)     Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of October 28, 1993 between
          Federal Realty Investment Trust and Citibank, N.A.

          (xxii)    Credit Agreement dated as of February 11, 1994 between
          Federal Realty Investment Trust and Mellon Bank as filed as an exhibit
          to the Trust's Annual Report on Form


 
          10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 is incorporated herein by
          reference thereto.

          (xxiii)   Other Share Award and Purchase Note between Federal Realty
          Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan, dated January 1, 1994, filed with
          the Commission as a portion of Item 6 to the Trust's Quarterly Report
          on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994 is incorporated
          herein by reference thereto.

          (xxiv)    Amended and Restated 1983 Stock Option Plan of   Federal
          Realty Investment Trust and 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan of
          Federal Realty Investment Trust, filed with the Commission on August
          17, 1994 on Form S-8, (File No. 33-55111) is incorporated herein by
          reference thereto.

The following documents, filed with the Commission as portions of Exhibit 10 to
the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, are
incorporated herein by reference thereto:

          (xxv)     Form of Severance Agreement between Federal Realty
          Investment Trust and Certain of its Officers dated
          December 31, 1994.

          (xxvi)    Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 1994 between
          Federal Realty Investment Trust and First Union National Bank of
          Virginia.

          (xxvii)   Second Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of
          September 30, 1994 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and
          Corestates Bank.
 
          (xxviii)  First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated September 30, 1994
          between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Mellon Bank.

          (xxix)    First Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement dated
          September 30, 1994 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Signet
          Bank/Maryland.

          (xxx)     Exclusive Brokerage Agreement between Street Retail Inc. and
          Westport Advisors Corporation filed as an exhibit to the Trust's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended March 31, 1995 is
          incorporated herein by reference thereto.

The following documents, filed with the Commission as portions of Item 6 to the
Trust's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995
are incorporated herein by reference thereto:

          (xxxi)    Non-Exclusive Brokerage Agreement between Federal Realty
          Investment Trust and Westport Advisors Corporation and Jack Alan
          Guttman dated August 20, 1995.

          (xxxii)   Exclusive Brokerage Agreement between Street Retail, Inc.
          and Westport Advisors Corporation and Jack


 
          Alan Guttman dated August 20, 1995.

The following documents, filed with the Commission as portions of Exhibit 10 to
the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, are
incorporated herein by reference thereto:

          (xxxiii)  Non-Exclusive Brokerage Agreement between Federal Realty
          Investment Trust, Street Retail, Inc., Westport Realty Advisors, Inc.
          and Jack Alan Guttman, dated December 3, 1996.

          (xxxiv)   Second and Third Amendments dated as of August 1, 1996 to
          the Credit Agreement dated as of September 30, 1994 between Federal
          Realty Investment Trust and First Union National Bank of Virginia.

          (xxxv)    Third Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement between
          Federal Realty Investment Trust and Corestates Bank dated July 1,
          1996.

          (xxxvi)   Third Amendment to Revolving Credit Agreement as of August
          7, 1996 by and between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Signet
          Bank.

          (xxxvii)  Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement as of August 9, 1996 by
          and between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Mellon Bank.

The following are filed as exhibits hereto:

          (xxxviii) Credit Agreement Dated as of December 19, 1997 by and among
          Federal Realty Investment Trust, as Borrower, The Financial
          Institutions Party Hereto and Their Assignees Under Section 13.5.(a),
          as Lenders, Corestates Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, First Union
          National Bank, as Administrative Agent and as Arranger, and Wells
          Fargo Bank, as Documentation Agent and as Co-Arranger.

          (xxxix)   Performance Share Award Agreement between Federal Realty
          Investment Trust and Steven J. Guttman, as of January 1, 1998.

          (xl)      Form of Amended and Restated Restricted Share Award
          Agreements between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Steven J.
          Guttman for the years 1998 through 2002.

          (xli)     Performance Share Award Agreements between Federal Realty
          Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan, as of January 1, 1998.

          (xlii)    Restricted Share Award Agreements between Federal Realty
          Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan, as of January 1, 1998.

          (xliii)   Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between the Trust
          and Steven J. Guttman as of March 6, 1998.


 
          (xliv)    Amended and Restated Executive Agreement between the Trust
          and Steven J. Guttman as of March 6, 1998.

          (xlv)     Executive Agreement between the Trust and Ron D. Kaplan as
          of March 6, 1998.

          (xlvi)    Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between the Trust
          and Ron D. Kaplan as of March 6, 1998.

          (xlvii)   Severance Agreement between the Trust and Catherine R. Mack
          as of March 6, 1998.

     (11) Statement regarding computation of per share
          earnings.........................................*

     (12) Statements regarding computation of ratios.......*

     (13) Annual Report to Shareholders, Form 10Q or quarterly report to
          shareholders...........................*

     (18) Letter regarding change in accounting
          principles.......................................*

     (19) Report furnished to security holders.............*

     (21) Subsidiaries of the registrant.................... 
          (xxxvii) Articles of Incorporation of Street Retail, Inc. filed with
          the Commission as a portion of Exhibit 21 to the Trust's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 is incorporated
          herein by reference thereto.

          (xxxviii) By-Laws of Street Retail, Inc. filed with the Commission as
          a portion of Exhibit 21 to the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the year ended December 31, 1994 is incorporated herein by reference
          thereto.

     (22) Published report regarding matters submitted to
          vote of security holders.........................*

     (23) Consent of Grant Thornton LLP....................

     (24) Power of attorney................................*

     (27) Financial Data Schedule..........................+

     (99) Additional exhibits..............................*


 
(b)  Reports on Form 8-K Filed during the Last Quarter
     -------------------------------------------------

          A Form 8-K, dated September 30, 1997, was filed in response to Item 5.

          A Form 8-K, dated March 5, 1997, was filed in response to Item 5.

          A Form 8-K, dated October 3, 1997, was filed in response to Item
7.(c)99.

_________
*  Not applicable.
+  For Edgar filing only.


 
                                  SIGNATURES
                                  ----------

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                              FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST

Date:     March 11, 1998            By:Steven J. Guttman
                                       -----------------
                                       Steven J. Guttman
                                       President

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signatures                     Title                 Date
- ----------                     -----                 ----         
 
                           President and
                           Trustee (Chief
Steven J. Guttman          Executive Officer)      March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Steven J. Guttman
 
                           Vice-President and  
                           Controller (Principal
Cecily A. Ward             Accounting Officer)     March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Cecily A. Ward
 
Dennis L. Berman           Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Dennis L. Berman
 
Kenneth D. Brody           Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Kenneth D. Brody
 
A. Cornet de Ways Ruart    Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
A. Cornet de Ways Ruart
 
Samuel J. Gorlitz          Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Samuel J. Gorlitz
 
Kristin Gamble             Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Kristin Gamble
 
Walter F. Loeb             Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Walter F. Loeb
 
Donald H. Misner           Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Donald H. Misner
 
Mark S. Ordan              Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
Mark S. Ordan
 
George L. Perry            Trustee                 March 11, 1998
- -------------------------                          ---------------------
George L. Perry


 
                           FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                                   SCHEDULES

                                      F1

 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

Trustees and Shareholders
Federal Realty Investment Trust

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Federal Realty
Investment Trust as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Trust's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Federal Realty
Investment Trust as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the consolidated results
of its operations and its consolidated cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1997 in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.

Grant Thornton LLP
Washington, D.C.
February 5, 1998

                                      F2

Federal Realty Investment Trust

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

                                      F-3





Federal Realty Investment Trust

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

 

                                      F-4


Federal Realty Investment Trust

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

                                      F-5



Federal Realty Investment Trust

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.

                                      F-6



 
Federal Realty Investment Trust
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995


SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Federal Realty Investment Trust invests in income-producing real estate
properties. Traditionally it focused on community and neighborhood shopping
centers, but beginning in late 1994 the Trust expanded its investments to main
street retail properties, retail buildings and shopping centers in densely
developed urban and suburban areas. The Trust's leases with tenants are
classified as operating leases and rental income is recognized on an accrual
basis over the terms of the related leases.

     The Trust uses the straight-line method in providing for depreciation.
Estimated useful lives range from three to 25 years on apartment buildings and
improvements, and from three to 35 years on retail properties and improvements.
Maintenance and repair costs are charged to operations as incurred. Major
improvements are capitalized. The gain or loss resulting from the sale of
properties is included in net income at the time of sale. The Trust has adopted
FAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed of". The Trust does not hold any assets that meet the
impairment criteria of FAS 121.

     The Trust capitalizes certain costs directly related to the acquisition,
improvement and leasing of real estate including applicable salaries and other
related costs. The capitalized costs associated with unsuccessful acquisitions
are charged to operations when that determination is made. The capitalized costs
associated with improvements and leasing are depreciated or amortized over the
life of the improvement and lease, respectively.

     Costs related to the issuance of debt instruments are capitalized and are
amortized as interest expense over the life of the related issue using the
interest method. Upon conversion or in the event of redemption, applicable
unamortized costs are charged to shareholders' equity or to operations,
respectively.

     The Trust operates in a manner intended to enable it to qualify as a real
estate investment trust under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code (the
"Code"). Under those sections, a trust which distributes at least 95% of its
real estate trust taxable income to its shareholders each year and which meets
certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its taxable income
which is distributed to its shareholders. Therefore, no provision for Federal
income taxes is required.

     The Trust consolidates the financial statements of five wholly owned
corporate subsidiaries, one other corporation, eighteen partnerships, and a
joint venture. The equity interests of other investors are reflected as
investors' interest in

                                      F7

 
consolidated assets. All significant intercompany transactions and balances are
eliminated.

     The Trust defines cash as cash on hand, demand deposits with financial
institutions and short term liquid investments with an initial maturity under
three months.  Cash balances may exceed insurable amounts.

     The Trust occasionally enters into derivative contracts prior to a
scheduled financing or refinancing in order to minimize the risk of changes in
interest rates. The derivative contracts are designated as hedges when acquired.
The cost or gain on these transactions is recognized as a component of interest
expense over the life of the financing. The Trust does not use derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. There were no open
derivative contracts at December 31, 1997.

     In 1997 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Financial
Accounting Standards No. 128 - "Earnings Per Share". Statement 128 replaces the
presentation of primary and fully diluted earnings per share ("EPS") pursuant to
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 15 with the presentation of basic and
diluted EPS. Basic EPS excludes dilution and is computed by dividing net income
available to common shareholders by the weighted number of common shares
outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that
could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common shares were
exercised or converted into common shares and then shared in the earnings of the
Trust. Options are accounted for in accordance with APB 25, whereby if options
are priced at fair market value or above at the date of grant, no compensation
expense is recognized.

     The following table sets forth the reconciliation between basic and diluted
EPS:



     Inherent in the preparation of the Trust's financial statements are certain
estimates. These estimates are prepared

                                      F8

 
using management's best judgment, after considering past and current events.

     In 1997 the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131-"Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information" which established standards for reporting
information about operating segments. In 1997 the Financial Accounting Standards
Board also issued statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130-"Reporting
Comprehensive Income" which established standards for reporting and displaying
comprehensive income and its components. The Trust is required to adopt these
two standards with its December 31, 1998 financial statements. The Trust will be
analyzing both standards during 1998 to determine what disclosures will be
required.


NOTE 1: REAL ESTATE AND ENCUMBRANCES

          A summary of the Trust's properties at December 31, 1997 is as
follows:



     The Trust's 101 retail properties are located in 14 states and the District
of Columbia. There are approximately 2,175 tenants providing a wide range of
retail products and services. These tenants range from sole proprietorships to
national retailers; no one tenant or corporate group of tenants account for 5%
or more of revenue.

     In 1997 the Trust acquired thirteen main street retail properties and five
shopping centers at an initial cost of $258.2 million. On January 22, 1997 the
Trust purchased a 5,000 square foot retail building in Chicago, Illinois for
cash of $4.2 million. On March 31, 1997 two partnerships were formed to purchase
property in California. One of the partnerships purchased a 15,000 square foot
building in Santa Monica, California for $4.0 million and the other purchased a
20,000 square foot building in San Diego, California for $850,000. On September
17, 1997 the latter partnership purchased a second building in Hermosa Beach,
California for approximately $1.5 million in cash. On April 17, 1997 a
partnership which the Trust had organized in December 1996 exercised its
purchase option on a retail building in Santa Monica, California. The total
cost, including the buyout of the existing tenant, was $7.1 million. In
accordance with the provisions of the three partnership agreements, the Trust
contributed 90% of the purchase costs to

                                      F9

 
the partnerships with the other 10% being contributed by the minority interests.

     On August 28, 1997, a limited liability company, of which the Trust owns
90%, acquired three buildings in Forest Hills, New York for approximately $12.6
million. On December 16, 1997 another limited liability company, of which the
Trust owns 90%, purchased a fourth building in Forest Hills for $3.4 million.
The Trust contributed 90% of the acquisition costs in cash to the limited
liability companies. Commissions of $291,000 were paid to a company owned by a
brother of the Trust's president in connection with these acquisitions.

     On September 26, 1997 the Trust purchased the Uptown Shopping Center in
Portland, Oregon which consists of 72,000 square feet of retail space and 47
apartment units for $15.7 million. The Trust funded the acquisition of Uptown
with proceeds from the sale of other properties. On October 22, 1997 a limited
liability company organized by the Trust acquired the Old Town Center in Los
Gatos, California for approximately $6.2 million. The property is currently
under development. The Trust contributed all but $400,000 of the purchase price
and will contribute all amounts necessary to fund the development. The minority
partner has an interest in the profits of the property after the Trust receives
a stated return on its investment in the property. On October 23, 1997 the Trust
purchased, for $20.5 million, a 109,000 square foot mixed use retail and office
building located at 150 Post Street in San Francisco, California. On December 5,
1997 the Trust purchased the retail portion of the Fresh Meadows complex in
Queens, New York for $49.3 million. The 417,000 square foot retail component
consists of main street retail shops and two neighborhood strip shopping
centers.

     On March 5, 1997 the Trust, through a limited liability company organized
by the Trust, purchased the 320,000 square foot San Jose Town & Country Village
Shopping Center in San Jose, California for $42.8 million in cash. Plans call
for the current shopping center to be demolished to allow the site to be
developed into a main street property. The other member of the limited liability
company has a minor interest in the profits. On March 31, 1997 the 159,000
square foot Pike 7 Shopping Center in Tysons Corner, Virginia was purchased for
$31.5 million by a partnership formed to own the center. The Trust contributed
$30.9 million to the partnership which was used to pay off existing debt on the
center. The other partners contributed the shopping center and its existing debt
in exchange for partnership units valued at $495,000 which are exchangeable, at
the option of the Trust, for cash or 18,074 common shares of the Trust.

     On December 17, 1997 a limited partnership, Federal Realty Partners L.P.,
organized by the Trust acquired the Magruder's Center and the Courthouse Center,
both located in Rockville, Maryland, for $12.6 million. The seller contributed
the properties to the limited partnership and received 481,378 partnership units
valued at $12.3 million and the Trust contributed $400,000 in cash. The
partnership units are exchangeable, at the option of the Trust, for cash or
common shares of the Trust. On December 29, 1997 the Trust purchased

                                      F10

 
the 295,000 square foot Peninsula Shopping Center located in the Los Angeles,
California suburb of Palos Verdes at a cash purchase price of $43.5 million.

     The Trust made several other real estate acquisitions in 1997. On January
6, the Trust purchased the fee interest in Shillington, Troy and Feasterville
Shopping Centers for $1.9 million, $5.7 million and $2.2 million, respectively.
The Trust also contracted to purchase the fee interest in Lawrence Park Shopping
Center in June 1998 for $8.5 million. In connection with the purchase agreement
for Lawrence Park, the Trust, in January 1997, lent the seller $8.8 million at
8% which is due in June 1998. The Trust previously held these properties under
capital leases. On February 24, 1997 the Trust purchased a 16 acre tract of land
underlying part of the Shops at Willow Lawn for $4.6 million in cash. On June 3,
1997 the Trust exercised its purchase option on a parcel of land adjacent to its
Bethesda Row property in Bethesda, Maryland for $5.8 million in cash. The land
will be used for future development. In connection with the purchase, a $3.6
million mortgage which the Trust had made to the seller in 1996 was repaid. On
July 16, 1997 the Trust purchased a 3,750 square foot parcel of land in
Bethesda, Maryland for approximately $800,000. The land, on which there is a
vacant retail building, was purchased in order to allow future expansion of the
Trust's Bethesda Row property. Proceeds from the sale of other Trust properties
were used to fund the acquisition of the two Bethesda purchases.

     In 1996 the Trust acquired $105.6 million of retail property, comprised of
three shopping centers and fourteen retail buildings. On October 1, 1996 the
Trust acquired Saugus Plaza Shopping Center, located in the metropolitan Boston,
Massachusetts area, for a total cash cost of $12.7 million. On October 29, 1996
Wynnewood Shopping Center in suburban Philadelphia, Pennsylvania was purchased
for a total cash cost of $21.8 million. On December 31, 1996 the Trust acquired
the controlling interest in a Limited Liability Company formed to own Escondido
Promenade in suburban San Diego, California for $14.2 million in cash. The $23.5
million center is encumbered by $9.4 million of municipal bonds. The bonds,
which mature October 1, 2016, bear interest at a variable rate determined weekly
to be the interest rate which would enable the bonds to be remarketed at 100% of
their principal amount. The bonds are redeemable on demand by the holders and if
they cannot be resold, will be due. The other member of the Limited Liability
Company, who is related to the developer of the property, has a minor interest
in the profits of the property.

     On February 28, 1996 the Trust purchased, for cash, two retail buildings in
Winter Park, Florida for a cost of $6.8 million. In 1996 the Trust purchased two
buildings in Greenwich, Connecticut, one for $3.2 million in cash on May 6 and
another for $9.5 million in cash on June 4. On December 31, 1996 the Trust made
an investment of $17.6 million for the general partnership interest in two
partnerships, one of which owns ten street retail buildings and the other of
which owned a purchase option on a street retail building. The ten buildings,
valued at $28 million, are located in Pasadena, Santa Monica and San Diego,

                                      F11

 
California. Nine of the ten buildings are scheduled to be renovated and
retenanted. The Trust is contributing 90% of future capital costs. The limited
partners who contributed $10.4 million to the partnerships will receive a
cumulative return of $762,000 per year. All remaining income and cash available
for distribution will be allocated 90% to the Trust and 10% to the minority
partner until each receives a return of 10% on its deemed investment and then
60% to the Trust and 40% to the minority partner.

     The Trust purchased 19 retail properties during 1995 for a total cost of
$120.6 million. The Trust also purchased a building abutting Flourtown Shopping
Center, one of its existing centers, for $3.1 million. Finley Square Shopping
Center in suburban Chicago was purchased on April 27, 1995 for $18.8 million in
cash; Bristol Shopping Center in Bristol, Connecticut was purchased on September
22, 1995 for $19.6 million, by assuming a $11.3 million mortgage and by issuing
337,527 common shares valued at $7.3 million with the balance in cash; Park &
Shop Center in Washington, D.C. was purchased on December 1, 1995 for $11.2
million in cash; and on December 21, 1995 Shirlington Shopping Center in
Arlington, Virginia was purchased for $23.5 million in cash. The retail building
acquisitions during 1995 were as follows: seven buildings in West Hartford,
Connecticut for $15.3 million; two buildings in Greenwich, Connecticut for $14.9
million; one building in Westport, Connecticut for $5.7 million; one building in
Brookline, Massachusetts for $3.8 million; one building in Westfield, New Jersey
for $2.2 million; two buildings in Evanston, Illinois for $3.6 million and one
building in Bethesda, Maryland, for $2.0 million.

     In connection with certain of these purchases in 1996 and 1995, brokerage
commissions of $172,000 and $671,000, respectively, were incurred to a company
that is owned by a brother of the Trust's president.

     On May 13, 1997 the Trust sold Town & Country Shopping Center in
Springfield, Illinois for $7.5 million, resulting in a gain of $5.3 million. On
May 30, 1997 Shillington Shopping Center in Shillington, Pennsylvania was sold
for $4.6 million, resulting in a gain of $1.7 million. As previously stated, the
proceeds from these sales were used to fund the acqusition of two plots of land
in Bethesda, Maryland and of Uptown Shopping Center in Portland, Oregon. On
September 25, 1997 the Trust sold Brainerd Village Shopping Center in
Chattanooga, Tennessee for $10.2 million, resulting in a loss of $659,000.

     On December 31, 1996 the Trust sold Town and Country Shopping Center in
Hammond, Louisiana for $4.9 million, resulting in a loss of $12,000.

     On August 1, 1995 the Trust sold North City Shopping Center in New Castle,
Pennsylvania for $1.8 million, resulting in a loss of $545,000.

     On April 17, 1997 the Trust made a $3.9 million loan to certain of its
partners. The loan with a balance of $4.2 million at December 31, 1997 is
secured by property in Santa Monica,

                                      F12

 
California, earns interest at 10% and participates in certain revenues and
appreciation of the property. The loan matures on May 1, 2007.

     On April 22, 1996 the Trust made a $9.2 million convertible participating
loan to a partnership, secured by retail properties in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. The loan bears interest at 10% plus additional interest based upon
the gross income of the secured properties. In addition, upon sale of the
properties, the Trust will share in the appreciation of the properties. From and
after April 2006, which date may be extended to April 2008, the Trust has the
option to convert the loan into a partnership interest in the properties. From
1995 to 1997 the Trust made additional loans, totaling $3.0 million, secured by
properties in Philadelphia, to partnerships with common ownership to the
partnership above. One loan bears interest at 5% and the others at the greater
of prime plus 2% or 10%. The loans, which were originally due in November 1997,
were extended and refinanced on January 14, 1998. The new loan, which is
available for up to $25 million, bears interest at 10% and is due May 1, 2021.
From and after May 2006, which date may be extended to April 2008, the Trust has
the option to convert the loan into a partnership interest in the properties.

     The Trust held two other mortgage loans at December 31, 1997, 1996 and
1995. The notes, which total approximately $13.2 million, bear interest at 10%
and were issued in connection with the acquisition of Trust properties.

     Mortgages payable and capital lease obligations are due in installments
over various terms extending to 2001 and 2060, respectively, with actual or
imputed interest rates ranging from 7.9% to 11.25%. Certain of the mortgage and
capital lease obligations require additional interest payments based upon
property performance. On September 30, 1997 the Trust repaid a $1.5 million
mortgage on Northeast Shopping Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

     Aggregate mortgage principal payments due during the next four years are
$54.5 million, $532,000, $583,000, and $30.7 million, respectively.

     Future minimum lease payments and their present value for property under
capital leases as of December 31, 1997, are as follows:



Leasing Arrangements
- --------------------

                                      F13

 
     The Trust's leases with retail property and apartment tenants are
classified as operating leases. Leases on apartments are generally for a period
of one year, whereas retail property leases generally range from three to 10
years and usually provide for contingent rentals based on sales and sharing of
certain operating costs.

     The components of rental income are as follows:

 
 
     The components of rental expense are as follows:
 


     Minimum future retail property rentals on noncancelable operating leases as
of December 31, 1997 are as follows:

 

NOTE 2. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
- -------------------------------------------

     The following disclosure of estimated fair value was determined by the
Trust, using available market information and appropriate valuation methods.
Considerable judgment is necessary to develop estimates of fair value. The
estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that
could be realized upon disposition of the financial instruments.

                                      F14

 
     The Trust estimates the fair value of its financial instruments using the
following methods and assumptions: (1) quoted market prices, when available, are
used to estimate the fair value of investments in marketable debt and equity
securities; (2) quoted market prices are used to estimate the fair value of the
Trust's marketable convertible subordinated debentures; (3) discounted cash flow
analyses are used to estimate the fair value of long term notes receivable and
payable, using the Trust's estimate of current interest rates for similar notes;
(4) carrying amounts in the balance sheet approximate fair value for cash and
short term borrowings. Notes receivable from officers are excluded from fair
value estimation since they have been issued in connection with employee stock
ownership programs.


 
NOTE 3. NOTES PAYABLE
- ---------------------

     At December 31, 1997 and 1996 the Trust had notes payable of $119.0 million
and $66.1 million, respectively.  Of these balances, $114.8 million in 1997 and
$59.4 million in 1996 were issued under the Trust's revolving credit facilities.

     The remaining balance of notes payable was issued in connection with the
acquisition, leasing or renovation of properties.  A $2.5 million non-interest
bearing note issued in September 1995 in connection with a lease transaction at
Barracks Road was repaid in 1997.  A note, with a balance of $1.2 million at
December 31, 1997 and $1.3 million at December 31, 1996, was issued in
connection with the buy out of a tenant at Queen Anne Plaza in January 1995.
The non-interest bearing note of $2.2 million, due in annual installments of
$200,000 for eleven years, was recorded at its discounted value using an
interest rate of 8 7/8%.

     A 10% note, payable in equal monthly installments with a final maturity in
2013, issued in connection with the renovation of Perring Plaza had a balance of
$2.8 million in 1997 and $2.9 million in 1996.  A $3.0 million note issued in
connection with the acquisition of Federal Plaza was paid in 1996.

     In December 1997 the Trust replaced its unsecured medium term revolving
credit facilities with four banks with a five year syndicated line, thereby
increasing the aggregate amount

                                      F15

 
available from $135 million to $300 million and decreasing the interest rate
from LIBOR plus 75 basis points to LIBOR plus 65 basis points. The syndicated
line requires fees and has various covenants including the maintenance of a
minimum shareholders' equity and a maximum ratio of debt to net worth.

     The maximum drawn under these facilities during 1997, 1996 and 1995 was
$114.8 million, $76.2 million and $66.8 million, respectively.  In 1997, 1996
and 1995 the weighted average interest rate on borrowings was 6.5%,6.4% and
6.9%, respectively, and the average amount outstanding was $59.9 million, $47.2
million and $26.7 million, respectively.

NOTE 4. DIVIDENDS
- -----------------

     On November 24, 1997 the Trustees declared a quarterly cash dividend of
$.43 per common share, payable January 15, 1998 to common shareholders of record
January 2, 1998. For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, $.19,
$.21, and $.43 of dividends paid per common share, respectively, represented a
return of capital.

     On November 24, 1997 the Trustees declared a quarterly cash dividend of
$.49688 per share on its Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares,
payable on February 2, 1998 to shareholders of record on January 15, 1998.

NOTE 5. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
- -------------------------------------

     Pursuant to the provisions of the Loehmann's Plaza Limited Partnership
Agreement, on or after September 1, 1995 the limited partner may require the
Trust to purchase his interest in the Partnership at its then fair market value.

     The Congressional Plaza Shopping Center Joint Venture Agreement provides
that upon six months advance notice the Trust can be required to purchase its
pro rata share of one venturer's 18.75% or greater joint venture interest for a
purchase price based on the appraised fair market value of the shopping center,
but no less than the percentage of joint venture interest being sold multiplied
by the difference between $17.5 million and the remaining principal balance of
any liabilities of the Joint Venture.

     Under the terms of certain partnerships, if certain leasing and revenue
levels are obtained for the properties owned by the partnerships, the limited
partners may require the Trust to purchase their partnership interests at a
formula price based upon net operating income.  The purchase price may be paid
in cash or common stock of the Trust at the election of the limited partners.
If the limited partners do not redeem their interest, the Trust may choose to
purchase the limited partnership interests upon the same terms.  Under the terms
of another partnership, the partners may exchange their 481,378 operating
partnership units into cash or common shares of the Trust, at the option of the
Trust.

                                      F16

 
     As previously reported, certain of the Trust's shopping centers have some
environmental contamination.  The Trust has retained an environmental consultant
to investigate  contamination at a shopping center in New Jersey.  The Trust is
evaluating whether it has insurance coverage for this matter.  Although the
Trust is still investigating the chlorinated solvent contamination in response
to NJDEP directives, information collected to date indicates that remediation of
this contamination is not likely to have a material effect upon the Trust's
financial condition. The Trust has also identified chlorinated solvent
contamination at another property. The contamination appears to be linked to the
current and/or previous dry cleaner.  The Trust intends to look to the
responsible parties for any remediation effort.  Evaluation of this situation is
preliminary and it is impossible, at this time, to estimate the range of
remediation costs, if any.

     On December 4, 1997 the Trust purchased the retail portion of a mixed use
property located in Queens, New York.  Environmental studies performed prior to
the acquisition identified petroleum and solvent contamination in the soil and
groundwater at various locations at the property.  Additional investigation as
to the nature and extent of contamination is required at this property.
Although the seller states that it is not responsible for this investigation or
remediation, the Trust disagrees and intends to pursue the seller to enforce its
obligations with respect to contamination at the property.  At this time, the
Trust is unable to determine what impact, if any, this situation will have on
the Trust's financial condition.

     A nonqualified deferred compensation plan for Trust officers was
established in 1994.  The plan allows the officers to defer future income until
the earlier of age 65 or termination of employment with the Trust.  As of
December 31, 1997, the Trust is liable to participants for approximately $1.3
million under this plan.  Although this is an unfunded plan, the Trust has
purchased certain investments with which to match this obligation.

     The Trust has entered into agreements with certain key employees whereby if
these employees voluntarily or involuntarily leave the employment of the Trust
within six months after a "change of control" (defined as control of 35% or more
of outstanding shares) of the Trust, they will be entitled to a lump sum cash
payment equal to one to three times their annual salary as of the date of
termination and have their health and welfare benefits and executive privileges
continued for a period of one to three years.  In the event of a change of
control, the Trust also agreed that all restrictions on the exercise or receipt
of any stock options and stock grants shall lapse upon termination of employment
and that all shares owned at termination shall be redeemed by the Trust at a
formula price.
 
     As of December 31, 1997 in connection with the renovation of certain
shopping centers, the Trust has contractual obligations of $13.1 million and
$774,000 of letters of credit outstanding.

                                      F17

 
In addition the Trust is contractually obligated under leases to provide up to
$8.6 million in building and tenant improvements.

     The Trust is obligated under ground lease agreements on several shopping
centers requiring minimum annual payments as follows:

 

NOTE 6. 5 1/4% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES
- ---------------------------------------------------

     In October 1993 the Trust issued $75.0 million of 5 1/4% convertible
subordinated debentures, realizing cash proceeds of approximately $73.0 million.
The debentures were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933, and were
not publicly distributed within the United States.  The debentures, which mature
in 2003, are convertible into shares of beneficial interest at $36 per share.
The debentures are redeemable by the Trust, in whole, at any time after October
28, 1998 at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest.

     At December 1997 and 1996 the Trust had outstanding $289,000 of 5 1/4%
convertible subordinated debentures due 2002.  The debentures which are
convertible into shares of beneficial interest at $30.625 were not registered
under the Securities Act of 1933 and were not publicly distributed within the
United States.

NOTE 7. SENIOR NOTES AND DEBENTURES
- -----------------------------------

     On August 1, 1997 the Trust issued $40 million of 6.82% Medium-Term Notes,
netting approximately $39.8 million.  The notes, which pay interest semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1, are due August 1, 2027, but may be
redeemed, at par, at the option of the holders on August 1, 2007.  In order to
minimize the risk of a change in interest rate prior to completing the
transaction, the Trust entered into a forward rate agreement costing $157,000
which is being recognized as a component of interest expense over the life of
the notes.

     On August 16, 1996 the Trust issued $50.0 million of 7.48% Debentures due
August 15, 2026, netting approximately $49.8 million after adjusting for
underwriting discounts and other costs.  The debentures, which were issued at a
price of 99.96%, pay interest semiannually on February 15, and August 15.  The
debentures are redeemable at par at the option of the holders on August 15, 2008
and by the Trust at any time thereafter.

     On January 19, 1995 the Trust issued $100.0 million of 8 7/8% Notes, due
January 15, 2000. The notes, which were issued at a price of 99.815%, pay
interest semi-annually on January 15

                                      F18

 
and July 15 and are not redeemable prior to maturity.  After deducting the
underwriting discount and other costs, the Trust netted approximately $98.9
million. In January 1995 the Trust executed a five year interest rate swap on
$25.0 million, whereby the Trust swapped fixed interest payment obligations of
8.1% for a floating rate interest payment of three month LIBOR.  The floating
rate during the first quarter of 1995 was 6.2%.  In May 1995 the swap was
terminated and the Trust sold the swap for $1.5 million, which is being
amortized as a deduction to interest expense over the remaining term.

     On April 21, 1995 the Trust issued $25.0 million of senior notes, netting
$24.9 million after deducting discounts and costs.  The notes, which are due
April 21, 2002 and bear interest at 8%, payable semiannually on April 21 and
October 21, were issued at a price of 99.683%.

     On December 8, 1995 the Trust issued an additional $40.0 million of senior
notes, netting $39.6 million after deducting costs.  The notes, which mature on
December 1, 2005 and bear interest at 6 5/8%, payable June 1 and December 1,
were issued at a price of 99.3%.

NOTE 8. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
- ----------------------------

     On February 4, 1997 the Trust sold three million common shares to an
institutional investor for $28 per share, netting $83.9 million.

     On October 6, 1997 the Trust issued four million 7.95% Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares at $25 per share in a public offering, realizing
cash proceeds of approximately $96.6 million after costs of $3.4 million.  The
Series A Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to October 6, 2002.  On or
after that date, the Preferred Shares may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at
the option of the Trust, at a redemption price of $25 per share plus all accrued
and unpaid dividends.  The redemption price is payable solely out of proceeds
from the sale of other capital shares of the Trust.  Dividends on the Preferred
Shares will be payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of January, April,
July and October.

     On May 24, 1996 the Trust sold, to an institutional investor, 1.8 million
shares of beneficial interest ("shares") at $22 per share, netting $39.3
million.  On December 13, 1996 the Trust sold another 1.6 million shares to the
public at $27 7/8 per share, netting $42.9 million.

     In September 1995 the Trust issued 337,527 shares of beneficial interest
valued at $7.3 million in partial consideration for the purchase of Bristol
Shopping Center.

     The Trust has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, whereby shareholders may use
their dividends and make optional cash payments to purchase shares.  In 1997,
1996, and 1995, 153,973 shares, 181,274 shares, and 193,965 shares,
respectively, were issued under the Plan.

                                      F19

 
     On January 31, 1997 under the terms of the 1993 Long Term Incentive Plan,
22,000 restricted shares were granted to an officer and two employees of the
Trust.  The shares vest over three years.  On September 26, 1997, 10,000
restricted common shares were granted to an officer;  the shares, which were
fully vested upon grant, were issued from treasury shares.

     In January 1994 under the terms of the 1993 Long Term Incentive Plan, an
officer of the Trust purchased 40,000 common shares at $25 per share with the
assistance of a $1.0 million loan from the Trust.  The loan, which has a term of
12 years, bears interest at 6.24%.  Forgiveness of up to 75% of the loan is
subject to the future performance of the Trust.  One eighth of the loan was
forgiven on January 31, 1995 and an additional one sixteenth has been forgiven
each January 31 since then as certain performance criteria of the Trust were
met.  The Trust has loaned the officer $100,000 to pay taxes due in connection
with the plan.

     In January 1991 the Trustees adopted the Federal Realty Investment Trust
Share Purchase Plan.  Under the terms of this plan, officers and certain
employees of the Trust purchased 446,000 common shares at $15.125 per share with
the assistance of loans of $6.7 million from the Trust.  Originally, the Plan
called for one sixteenth of the loan to be forgiven each year for eight years,
as long as the participant was still employed by the Trust.  The loans for all
participants, but two, were modified in 1994 to extend the term an additional
four years and to tie forgiveness in 1995 and thereafter to certain performance
criteria of the Trust.  One sixteenth of the loan has been forgiven during each
year of the plan.  The Trust has loaned participants $985,000 to pay the taxes
due in connection with the plan.  The purchase loans and the tax loans bear
interest at 9.39%.  The shares purchased under the plan may not be sold, pledged
or assigned until both the purchase and tax loans are satisfied and the term has
expired, without the consent of the Compensation Committee of the Board of
Trustees.

     In connection with a restricted share grant, the Trust accepted from its
President a noninterest bearing note for $210,000.  One installment of $105,000
was paid on the note in 1992 and the second installment is due April 15, 2001.
This loan and the tax loans issued under the two Share Purchase Plans are
recorded as notes receivable - officers.

     At December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, the Trust had 52,386
common shares, 62,386 common shares and 61,328 common shares in treasury, at a
cost of $1.0 million, $1.2 million, and $1.2 million, respectively.

     On April 13, 1989, the Trustees adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan (the
Plan).  Under the Plan, one right was issued for each outstanding share of
common stock held as of April 24, 1989, and a right will be attached to each
share issued in the future.  The rights are exercisable into common shares upon
the occurrence of certain events, including acquisition by a person or group of
certain levels of beneficial ownership or a tender offer by such

                                      F20

 
a person or group. The rights are redeemable by the Trust for $.01 and expire on
April 24, 1999.

NOTE 9. STOCK OPTION PLAN
- -------------------------

     The 1993 Long Term Incentive Plan ("Plan") has been amended to authorize
the grant of options and other stock based awards for up to four million shares.
Options granted under the plan have ten year terms and vest in one to five
years. Under the Plan, on each annual meeting date during the term of the plan,
each nonemployee Trustee will be awarded 2,500 options.  Accordingly, on each of
May 7, 1997, May 2, 1996 and May 10, 1995, 22,500, 22,500, and 20,000 options,
respectively, were awarded to nonemployee Trustees.  In 1997 1.6 million options
at prices ranging from $24.94 to $27.75 were granted to certain officers,
employees, affiliates and consultants to the Trust.  In 1996, 81,181 options at
$21 to $21.63 per share were granted to employees of the Trust. On February 15,
1995, 719,000 stock options at $20.75 per share were granted to employees of the
Trust.
 
     The option price to acquire shares under the 1993 Plan and previous plans
is required to be at least the fair market value at the date of grant.  As a
result of the exercise of options, the Trust had outstanding from its officers
and employees notes for $2.5 million and $2.2 million at December 31, 1997 and
1996, respectively.  The notes issued under the 1993 plan bear interest at the
dividend rate on the date of exercise divided by the purchase price of such
shares.  The notes issued under the previous plans bear interest at the lesser
of (i) the Trust's borrowing rate or (ii) the current indicated annual dividend
rate on the shares acquired pursuant to the option, divided by the purchase
price of such shares.  The notes are collateralized by the shares and are with
recourse. The loans have a term extending to the employee's or officer's
retirement date.

     FAS Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" requires
pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share as if the
Trust accounted for its stock options under the fair value method of that
Statement.  The fair value for options issued in 1997, 1996, and 1995 has been
estimated as $4.0 million, $120,000 and $1.4 million, respectively, as of the
date of grant, using a binomial model with the following weighted-average
assumptions for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively: risk-free interest rates of
6.5%, 5.7% and 7.3%; volatility factors of the expected market price of the
Trust's shares of 19%, 19% and 19%; and a weighted average expected life of the
option of 6.6 years, 5.6 years and 6.3 years.

     Because option valuation models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions, such as the expected stock price volatility, and because changes in
these subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value
estimate, the existing model may not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of its stock options.

                                      F21

 
     For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options are amortized to expense over the options' vesting period.  The pro
forma information is as follows:

 
 
     A summary of the Trust's stock option activity for the years ended December
31, is as follows:



     At December 31, 1997 and 1996, options for 1.2 million shares and 942,270
shares, respectively, were exercisable. The average remaining contractual life
of options outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996 was 7.9 years and 7.1
years, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value per option for
options granted in 1997 and 1996 was $2.68 and $1.47, respectively. The exercise
price of options outstanding at December 31, 1997 ranged from $17.25 per share
to $27.75 per share.

NOTE 10. SAVINGS AND RETIREMENT PLAN
- ------------------------------------

     The Trust has a savings and retirement plan in accordance with the
provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  Employees'
contributions range, at the discretion of each employee, from 1% to 17% of
compensation up to a maximum of $9,500.  Under the plan, the Trust, out of its
current net income, contributes 50% of each employee's first 5% of
contributions.  In addition, the Trust may make discretionary contributions
within the limits of deductibility set forth by the Code.  Employees of the
Trust, who work over 1,000 hours annually, are eligible to become plan
participants.  The Trust's expense for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996
and 1995 was $210,000, $179,000 and $158,000 respectively.  In 1996 and 1995 the
Trust recorded a liability for an additional contribution of

                                      F22

 
1.5% and 1% of salary, respectively, for all nonofficer employees who are
eligible for the 401(k) plan.  In addition, 1.5% of salary in 1996 and 1%  of
salary in 1995 was accrued for all eligible nonofficer employees as a bonus.

NOTE 11. INTEREST EXPENSE
- -------------------------

     The Trust incurred interest expense totaling $50.9 million, $46.4 million
and $40.2 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995  respectively, of which $3.6 million,
$871,000 and $975,000, respectively, was capitalized.  Interest paid was $49.4
million in 1997,$44.2 million in 1996 and $33.4 million in 1995.

NOTE 12. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
- --------------------------

     On January 1, 1998, 300,000 and 62,500 common shares, respectively, were
awarded to the Trust's president and chief investment officer in a program
designed to directly link a significant portion of these executives' long term
compensation to the prosperity of the Trust and its shareholders.  The shares
vest over 13 years, but accelerated vesting over an eight year period is
possible if the Trust meets certain performance criteria.  In order to further
link his compensation with the prosperity of the shareholders, the president
elected under another agreement to accept stock in lieu of cash for both his
1997 bonus and his 1998 salary.  As a result on January 1, 1998, 24,534 common
shares were awarded to the president in lieu of his 1998 cash salary and on
January 26, 1998, 14,521 common shares were issued in lieu of his 1997 bonus.
The shares vest at the end of five years if the president is still employed by
the Trust.  An additional 62,500 common shares were granted to the chief
investment officer on January 1, 1998;  these shares vest over eight years. On
January 26, 1998 a third officer was awarded 75,000 restricted common shares
which will vest as the Trust meets certain performance criteria.

     On January 2, 1998, 200,000 options were awarded to an officer of the Trust
at a price of $25.875.  The options vest at the rate of 50,000 shares at the end
of years two through five.  On January 26, 1998, 796,000 options, vesting over
three years, were granted to certain officers and employees at a price of
$25.1875.

     On February 3, 1998 the Trust purchased a 3,000 square foot main street
retail building in Santa Monica, California for $2.0 million in cash.

     On January 13, 1998 the Trust purchased a Treasury Yield Hedge (notional
amount of $50 million) in anticipation of a planned refinancing.  Under this
agreement, if the 10-Year Treasury Note rate on the maturity date of March 11,
1998 exceeds 5.445%, the Trust will receive the differential; if the 10-Year
Treasury Note rate at maturity is less than 5.445%, the Trust will pay the
differential.

                                      F23

 
NOTE 13. QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
- -----------------------------------

     The following summary represents the results of operations for each quarter
in 1997 and 1996:



(1) Income before gain on sale of real estate was $10.0 million or $.26 per
common share, both basic and diluted.
(2) Income before loss on sale of real estate was $10.1 million or $.26 per
common share, both basic and diluted.

                                      F24

                        FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST
                                 SCHEDULE  III
              SUMMARY OF REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1997

 

                                     F-25



 

                                     F-26


                        FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST
                                 SCHEDULE III
                    SUMMARY OF REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
                           DEPRECIATION - CONTINUED
                      THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997


                         RECONCILIATION OF TOTAL COST
                      -----------------------------------

 

 (A)  For Federal tax purposes, the aggregate cost basis is approximately 
      $1,295,694.000 as of December 31, 1997.

                                     F- 27

 
                        FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST
                                 SCHEDULE III
                    SUMMARY OF REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
                            DEPRECIATION-CONTINUED
                      THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997


          RECONCILIATION OF ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
      -------------------------------------------------------------------

 

                                     F-28




                        FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST
                                  SCHEDULE IV
                         MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE
                         Year Ended December 31, 1997

 

1) For Federal tax purposes, the aggregate tax basis is approximately
   $38,360,000 as of December 31, 1997. No payments are delinquent on these
   mortgages.
2) This mortgage is extendable for up to 45 years with interest increasing to a
   maximum of 11%.
3) This mortgage is available for up to $4,020,000. At December 31, 1996,
   $3,208,000 was outstanding.

                                     F-29

 
                        FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST

                                  SCHEDULE IV

                    MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE-CONTINUED

                      THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997


                      RECONCILIATION OF CARRYING AMOUNT 
                   ---------------------------------------

 

                                     F-30


 
Report of Independent Certified Public Accountants
- --------------------------------------------------
on Supplemental Information
- ---------------------------

Trustees and Shareholders
Federal Realty Investment Trust

In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of Federal
Realty Investment Trust referred to in our report dated February 5, 1998 which
is included in this Form 10-K, we have also audited Schedules III and IV as of
December 31, 1997 and for each of the three years then ended. In our opinion,
these schedules present fairly, in all material respects, the information
required to be set forth therein.

Grant Thornton LLP
Washington, D.C.
February 5, 1998

                                      F31

