
10-K405
d10k405.txt
ANNUAL REPORT




                                UNITED STATES
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                                  FORM 10-K
                   For Fiscal Year Ended: December 31, 2001
                   ----------------------------------------
                          Commission File No.1-07533
                          --------------------------

                        FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST
                        -------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                   Maryland                         52-0782497
         ------------------------------------------------------
        (State or other jurisdiction of          (I.R.S. Employer
         incorporation or organization)         identification No.)

           1626 East Jefferson Street, Rockville, Maryland 20852
           -----------------------------------------------------
           (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)

                             (301) 998-8100
                              -------------
         (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                  Name of Each Exchange
Title of Each Class                               on Which Registered
- -------------------                               -------------------
Common Shares of Beneficial Interest,
   par value $0.01 per share, with
   associated Common Share
   Purchase Rights                                New York Stock Exchange
7.95% Series A Cumulative Redeemable
   Preferred Shares of Beneficial
   Interest (Liquidation Preference
   $25.00 per share)                              New York Stock Exchange
8.5% Series B Cumulative Redeemable
   Preferred Shares of Beneficial
   Interest (Liquidation Preference
   $25.00 per share)                              New York Stock Exchange

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  x   No        .
                                             -----   --------

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [x]

     At March 7, 2002, the aggregate market value of Common Shares of Beneficial
Interest of Federal Realty Investment Trust held by nonaffiliates was $1.053
billion based upon the closing price of such Shares on the New York Stock
Exchange.

     As of March 7, 2002, 40,252,891 of the Trust's Common Shares of Beneficial
Interest were outstanding.



                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                     -----------------------------------

PART III
- --------

Portions of the Trust's Proxy Statement in connection with its Annual Meeting to
be held on May 1, 2002 (hereinafter called the "2002 Proxy Statement") are
incorporated herein by reference.




PART I & II
- -----------

               DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
               -----------------------------------------------

     The Trust and its representatives may from time to time make written or
oral statements that are "forward-looking", within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may
cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Trust to be materially
different from the results of operations or plans expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among others,

     . changes in our business strategy;
     . general economic and business conditions which will affect the credit
       worthiness of tenants;
     . financing availability and cost;
     . retailing trends and rental rates;
     . risks of real estate development and acquisitions, including the risk
       that potential acquisitions or development projects may not perform in
       accordance with expectations;
     . our ability to satisfy the complex rules in order to qualify for taxation
       as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and to operate effectively
       within the limitations imposed by these rules;
     . government approvals, actions and initiatives including the need for
       compliance with environmental and safety requirements, and changes in
       laws and regulations or the interpretation thereof; and
     . competition with other real estate companies, real estate projects and
       technology.

     We identify forward-looking statements by using words or phrases such as
"anticipate", "believe", "estimate", "expect", "intend", "may be", "objective",
"plan", "predict", "project", and "will be" and similar words or phrases, or the
negatives thereof or other similar variations thereof or comparable terminology.
We undertake no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to
these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect any future events
or circumstances.

Item 1.      Business
- -------      --------

     Federal Realty Investment Trust (the "Trust") is an equity real estate
investment trust specializing in the ownership, management, development and
redevelopment of high quality retail and mixed-use properties. The Trust
consolidates the financial statements of various entities which it controls. At
December 31, 2001 the Trust owned or had an interest in 58 community and
neighborhood shopping centers comprising over 12 million square feet, primarily
located in densely populated and affluent communities throughout the Northeast
and Mid-Atlantic




United States. In addition, the Trust owns 62 retail and urban mixed-use
properties comprising over 2 million square feet located in strategic markets
across the United States and one apartment complex. Federal Realty has paid
quarterly dividends to its shareholders continuously since its founding in 1962,
and has increased its dividend rate for 34 consecutive years.

     The Trust, which is organized as a Maryland real estate investment trust,
operates in a manner intended to enable it to qualify as a real estate
investment trust (REIT) for federal income tax purposes. A REIT which
distributes at least 90% of its real estate investment trust taxable income to
its shareholders each year and which meets certain other conditions will not be
taxed on that portion of its taxable income which is distributed to its
shareholders. Therefore, no provision for Federal income taxes is required.
Prior to 2001, the distribution requirement for a REIT was 95% of its taxable
income.

     An important part of the Trust's strategy has been to acquire older,
well-located properties in densely populated and affluent areas and to enhance
their operating performance through a program of renovation, expansion,
reconfiguration and retenanting. The traditional focus of the Trust has been on
community and neighborhood shopping centers that are anchored by supermarkets,
drug stores or high volume, value oriented retailers that provide consumer
necessities. Late in 1994, recognizing a trend of consumer shopping preferences
and retailer expansion to main streets, the Trust expanded its investment
strategy to include "street retail" or "mixed-use" properties. The mixed-use
properties are typically centered around a retail component but may also include
office, residential and hotel components, in established main street shopping
areas. In addition, from 1997 through 2001 the Trust has obtained control of
various land parcels and has devoted substantial resources for the purpose of
developing mixed-use projects in urban areas that center around the retail
component. On February 28, 2002 the board of trustees approved the adoption of a
business plan which returns the Trust's primary focus to its traditional
business of acquiring and redeveloping community and neighborhood shopping
centers. The Trust will complete its mixed-use projects in San Jose, California,
Arlington, Virginia and Bethesda, Maryland, but will not pursue any further new,
large-scale ground-up development projects.

       The Trust continually evaluates its properties for renovation,
retenanting and expansion opportunities. Similarly, the Trust regularly reviews
its portfolio and from time to time considers selling stabilized lower-growth
properties or exchanging them for other real estate assets. Proceeds from the
sale of such properties may be used to acquire other properties, to fund the
Trust's current redevelopment and development projects or to fund other capital
needs.

       The Trust's portfolio of properties has grown from 86 as of January 1,
1997 to 121 at December 31, 2001. During this




five year period the Trust acquired 43 retail and mixed-use properties for
approximately $502 million. During this same period eight properties were sold.
Also during this period the Trust spent over $600 million to develop, renovate,
expand, improve and retenant its properties.

     At December 31, 2001 the Trust has $322 million invested in three
mixed-used ground-up developments. Two of the projects, with costs totaling $306
million at December 31, 2001, are currently under construction. During 2002 and
2003, the Trust estimates that it will spend $240 million and $21 million,
respectively, to complete the current phases of these two projects, which are
located in San Jose, California and Arlington, Virginia. In connection with the
adoption of the new business plan on February 28, 2002, the Trust has
discontinued plans for the third development, located in Portland, Oregon. In
the first quarter of 2002, the Trust estimates it will record a charge of $16
million to $18 million to write down this and other developments and record
severance and other compensation costs related to a management restructuring as
a result of the new business plan.

     Consistent with the Trust's renewed focus on neighborhood and community
shopping centers, the Trust will seek older, well-located shopping centers and
retail buildings to acquire, renovate, retenant and remerchandise, thereby
enhancing their revenue potential. In addition, the Trust may seek opportunities
to develop ground-up grocery anchored shopping centers in and around the
Metropolitan Washington, D.C., Philadelphia and New York markets and will
identify and execute expansion and development opportunities in its existing
portfolio.

     Although the Trust does not have any policy restricting its ability to make
investments in properties or development sites, the Trust will generally look
for properties and sites in densely populated or growing affluent areas where
barriers to entry or further development are high. The Trust will evaluate each
investment on its individual merits, looking for investments where it believes
it will be able to increase the cash flow from the property both in near-term
and over time. Although the Trust usually purchases a 100% fee interest in its
acquisitions, on occasion, it has entered into long-term leases, classified as
capital leases under the provisions of SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases", as
a means of acquiring control of properties. A capital lease transfers the
benefits and risks of ownership of the property to the Trust and the Trust
records the lease as an acquisition of the property with a corresponding
incurrence of a liability. In addition, the Trust has purchased certain
properties in partnership with others. Certain of the partnerships, known as
"downreit partnerships", are a means of allowing property owners to make a tax
deferred contribution of their property in exchange for partnership units, which
receive the same distributions as Trust common shares and may be convertible
into common shares of the Trust.

     Since a significant portion of cash provided by operating activities is
distributed to common and preferred shareholders,




capital outlays for acquisitions, developments and redevelopments typically
require debt or equity funding. During the Trust's 40 years of existence, it has
financed its operations and other capital needs in a variety of ways during a
variety of economic conditions, including through issuance of senior securities
and subordinated debt and by borrowing money on its credit facilities. Since
January 1, 1999, the Trust has financed its capital needs primarily with debt.
Debt issuances since January 1, 1999 were as follows:

     . In November 1999, the Trust issued $175 million of 8.75% Notes to the
       public. The notes pay interest semi-annually on June 1 and December 1
       and are due December 1, 2009.
     . In February 2000, the Trust obtained a $24.5 million construction loan
       for its development project in Bethesda, Maryland. The loan bears
       interest at LIBOR plus 1.2% - 1.5% depending upon occupancy, matures
       August 2002 and has two one-year extension options.
     . In June 2000, the Trust modified certain covenants and extended its $300
       million syndicated credit facility and its $125 million term loan for an
       additional year to December 19, 2003.
     . In October 2000, the Trust obtained a $152 million mortgage loan, which
       is secured by five shopping centers. The mortgage bears interest at 7.95%
       and matures November 1, 2015.
     . In April 2001, the Trust obtained a $33 million mortgage loan secured by
       Brick Plaza. The mortgage bears interest at 7.415% and matures November
       1, 2015.
     . In April 2001, The Trust closed on a $295 million construction loan on
       its Santana Row project in San Jose, California. The loan initially bears
       interest at LIBOR plus 212.5 basis points, matures April 2004 and
       provides for two one-year extension options, subject to attaining certain
       operating targets. The interest rate on the loan will decrease over time
       if specified operating hurdles are achieved. There is no assurance that
       these targets and hurdles will be met. The initial funding of the
       construction loan took place on August 23, 2001 when the equity and
       pre-leasing requirements were met.
     . In May 2001, the Trust refinanced the mortgage loan secured by Federal
       Plaza. The new $36.5 million loan bears interest at 6.75% and matures on
       June 11, 2011. The prior outstanding mortgage loan of $26.5 million was
       paid off with these proceeds.
     . In August 2001, The Trust refinanced the mortgage loan secured by Tyson's
       Station. The new $7.0 million loan bears interest at 7.4% and matures on
       September 1, 2011. The prior outstanding mortgage loan of $3.9 million
       was paid off with these proceeds.
     . In September 2001, in connection with the purchase of Friendship Center
       the Trust placed a $17.0 million mortgage on the property. The loan bears
       interest at LIBOR plus 135 basis points, matures September 22, 2003




     and has three one-year extension options.

     The Trust is in compliance with all financial covenants associated with its
debt.

     In addition, since January 1, 1999 through December 31, 2001, the Trust has
issued 478,717 common shares of beneficial interest under its Dividend
Reinvestment Plan, realizing proceeds of $10.0 million.

     On November 19, 2001 the Trust issued 5.4 million 8.5% Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares at $25 per share in a public offering, netting
approximately $130.8 million.

     In the future, the Trust intends to satisfy its capital needs through
private and public offerings of its equity and debt securities, by entering into
joint ventures and/or by borrowing on its syndicated credit facility. The Trust
may also seek to extend, expand or renew its syndicated credit facility, or
obtain new credit facilities or lines of credit. In addition, if necessary the
Trust may seek to obtain mortgages on its properties. The board of trustees has
not adopted a policy limiting the amount or number of mortgages that may be
placed on a particular property, although the mortgage financing instruments
typically do limit additional indebtedness on properties covered by existing
mortgages.

     The Trust's 121 properties are located in fifteen states and the District
of Columbia. Twenty-seven of the properties are located in the Washington, D.C.
metropolitan area; twenty-five are in California; fourteen are in Connecticut;
ten are in Pennsylvania, primarily in the Philadelphia area; ten are in New
Jersey; nine are in Texas; seven are in New York; six are in Illinois; four are
in Massachusetts; two are in central Virginia; two are in Florida; two are in
Arizona; and there is one in each of the following states: Michigan, North
Carolina and Oregon. No single property accounts for over 10% of the Trust's
revenues.

     The Trust operates its business on an asset management model, where small
focused teams are responsible for a portfolio of assets. The Trust has divided
its portfolio of properties into three operating regions: the Northeast,
Mid-Atlantic and West. Each region is operated under the direction of a regional
chief operating officer, with dedicated leasing, property management and
financial staff and operates largely autonomously with respect to day to day
operating decisions. (See "Segment Results" in Item 7, Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a further
discussion of the segments and their results.)

     The Trust has approximately 2,100 tenants, ranging from sole proprietors to
major national retailers; no one tenant or corporate group of tenants accounts
for more than 2.7% of revenue. The Trust's exposure to recent bankruptcy filings
has not been significant, with the Trust's largest tenant to




declare bankruptcy, Kmart Corporation, accounting for only 1.0% of revenue and
3.4% of leaseable square footage. The Trust's leases with these tenants are
classified as operating leases and typically are structured to include minimum
rents, percentage rents based on tenants' gross sales volumes and reimbursement
of certain operating expenses and real estate taxes.

     While the Trust's emphasis will continue to be on equity real estate
investments, the Trust may, at its discretion, invest in mortgages and other
similar interests. The Trust does not intend to be a lender to a significant
extent. Similarly, although the Trust does not intend to do so to a significant
degree, it may invest in securities of other entities engaged in real estate
activities or securities of other issuers. The Trust does not, however, intend
to make investments that would cause it to be required to register as an
investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, nor will it
underwrite securities of other issuers. The Trust has in the past and may in the
future repurchase or otherwise reacquire its own securities if the Trust
determines that it would be beneficial to do so. In December 1999 the board of
trustees authorized a share repurchase program for calendar year 2000. A total
of 1,325,900 shares were repurchased at a cost of $25.2 million under this plan.

     The success of the Trust is subject to various risks, including risks
associated with changing economic conditions that affect the real estate
industry as a whole. Such risks include the following:

Risk Factors
- ------------

Risks Relating To Owning, Operating and Developing Retail and Mixed-Use Real
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Estate
- ------

     The Trust may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire
which may result in reduced cash flow and may adversely affect the Trust's
ability to make distributions to shareholders. If tenants decide not to renew
their leases upon their expiration, the Trust may not be able to relet the space
promptly. Even if the tenants do renew or the space can be relet, the terms of
renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations may be less
favorable than current lease terms. From January 1, 2002 through December 31,
2006, leases, excluding leases with options to renew, will expire on a total of
2.7 million rentable square feet or 18% of the rentable square feet at the
current properties. If the Trust is unable to promptly renew the leases or relet
this space, or if the rental rates upon such renewal or reletting are
significantly lower than expected rates, then the cash flow and ability to make
distributions to shareholders may suffer.

     Revenue from the Trust's properties depends in part on the success of its
tenants' retail operations, making the Trust vulnerable to general economic
downturns and other conditions affecting the retail industry. The Trust's leases
provide for base rent plus contractual base rent increases. A number of the




leases also provide for additional rent above the base amount based upon a
specified percentage of the revenues the tenants generate. In 2001, 170 of the
Trusts 2,107 tenants paid percentage rent totaling an aggregate of $6.1 million,
or 2.2% of the Trust's rental income for the year.

     Under the percentage rent leases, the revenue from tenants may increase or
decrease as revenues of the tenants fluctuate. Generally, retailers face
declining revenues during downturns in the economy. In addition, traditional
retailers are facing competition from Internet sales. To the extent that the
Internet is successful in attracting customers away from the Trust's tenants,
these tenants' revenues could be adversely affected. As a result, the portion of
the Trust's revenue which is derived from percentage rent leases could decline
upon a general economic downturn and competition from Internet sales. In
addition, these same issues could cause tenants to go bankrupt and terminate
their leases with the Trust.

     The ground-up development of real estate properties, as opposed to
renovation and redevelopment of existing properties, is a new line of business
for the Trust and presents a substantial risk not faced before. The Trust has
devoted substantial resources, including money and manpower, to its development
business. At December 31, 2001, the Trust has invested $306 million in
development of two projects, Pentagon Row in Arlington, Virginia and Phase 1 of
Santana Row in San Jose, California. The Trust estimates that it will spend $261
million to complete these two projects. The Trust is competing with other
companies that may have more development experience and that may have more
resources than are available to the Trust. The business of developing properties
has many risks, as noted in the paragraph below. If the projects are not
successful, it may adversely affect the Trust's financial condition and results
of operations.

     The Trust faces a variety of risks relating to its development,
construction and renovation activities, any of which may negatively impact its
results of operations. Although the Trust does not intend to initiate any new
large scale mixed-use ground-up development projects, it does expect to complete
developments currently underway at Pentagon Row and Santana Row, and to pursue
development, expansion and renovation projects on income-producing properties
that it already owns. Risks associated with development, construction and
renovation activities include the risks that:

   . a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant
     resources if the Trust determines that the development opportunity is not
     feasible or if it is unable to obtain all necessary zoning and other
     required governmental permits and authorizations;

   . development, construction and renovation costs of a project may exceed
     original estimates;

   . the Trust may be unable to attract credit-worthy tenants




     that attract visitors to its properties;

   . occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not be
     sufficient to make the property profitable;

   . construction and/or permanent financing may not be available on favorable
     terms or may not be available at all; and

   . projects may not be completed on schedule as a result of several factors,
     many of which are beyond the control of the Trust, such as weather, labor
     conditions and material shortages, resulting in increased debt service
     expense and construction costs and decreases in revenue.

     Properties developed or acquired for development may generate little or
no cash flow from the date of acquisition through the date of completion of
development and may experience operating deficits after the date of completion.
In addition, new development and renovation activities, regardless of whether or
not they are ultimately successful, may require a substantial portion of
management's time and attention.

     The Santana Row development project is the largest, most expensive project
the Trust has undertaken and if it is not successful, it could have a material
adverse effect on the Trust's financial condition and results of operations. The
project in San Jose, California is being developed on 42 acres of land acquired
in 1997. Phase 1 of Santana Row consists of a 1,500 foot "main street" framed by
nine buildings which are scheduled to contain 538,000 square feet of retail
space, 501 residential housing units and a 214-room hotel, as well as the
development's own central utility plant. Phase 1 is anticipated to cost $475
million. Phase 1 of Santana Row, upon completion, will comprise approximately
20% of the Trust's total real estate at cost, therefore, for each one percent
change in the yield on the Santana Row investment, net operating income would
be affected by $4.8 million.

     On April 17, 2001 the Trust obtained a $295 million construction loan for
Phase 1 of Santana Row. As of December 31, 2001, $62.0 million had been borrowed
under the loan and the Trust had invested $229 million in Santana Row. The Trust
intends to finance any amounts needed in excess of the construction loan to
complete Phase 1 through borrowings from its syndicated credit facility or
through other sources of capital.

     The recent downturn in the economy has severely impacted the San Jose
economy, producing decreased market rents in both the residential and retail
sectors and higher vacancies in the residential sector than were projected at
commencement of Phase 1. The Trust has not finalized the cost and scope of
future phases of Santana Row, and will not do so until the success of Phase 1
and future demand for rental space, both residential and retail, can be
determined.

     Competition for acquisitions results in increased prices for, and lower
returns on, properties. The Trust expects other




major real estate investors will compete with it for attractive investment
opportunities. These competitors include other publicly traded REITs, private
REITs, investment banking firms, private institutional investment funds,
individual investors, opportunity funds and local, regional and national
developers. Many of the competitors are larger and have greater financial
resources than the Trust.

     Acquired properties may fail to perform as expected, adversely affecting
the Trust's financial condition. The Trust may acquire retail properties to the
extent that the properties can be acquired on advantageous terms and meet the
Trust's investment criteria and to the extent the Trust can obtain capital on
commercially reasonable terms. Newly acquired properties may fail to perform as
expected. The Trust may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired
property up to standards established for its intended market position. These
failures could adversely affect the Trust's financial condition and results of
operations.

     Expenses remain relatively constant even if revenue drops. The expenses of
owning and operating a property, including debt service, real estate taxes,
insurance and maintenance costs, are not necessarily reduced when market factors
and competition may require the Trust to reduce rents charged on a property to
attract or retain tenants. Furthermore, if operating expenses increase, the
local rental market may limit the extent to which rents can be raised without
decreasing occupancy rates. If the Trust cannot increase rents or control its
costs, its financial condition and results of operations may be adversely
affected.

Risks Relating to the Trust's Level of Indebtedness
- ---------------------------------------------------

     Scheduled debt payments could adversely affect the Trust's financial
condition and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. Like many
owners of real estate, the Trust relies on borrowings and debt issuances to
assist it in acquiring, holding and developing properties. As of December 31,
2001, the Trust had $1.0 billion of debt outstanding, including $44 million
drawn on its $300 million syndicated credit facility but excluding capital
leases. The Trust may also incur additional debt in connection with future
property acquisitions or development, construction or redevelopment activities.
Consequently, its business will be affected by risks normally associated with
debt financing. If the Trust cannot refinance, extend or make principal payments
due at maturity with proceeds of other capital transactions, including new
equity capital, its cash flow may not be sufficient to repay all maturing debt.
If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing,
including the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial loans, result in
higher interest rates, increased interest expense would adversely affect the
Trust's cash flow and its ability to make distributions to shareholders.




     The following table shows the interest rate and maturity for debt
outstanding at December 31, 2001. All dollar references are in thousands. This
table does not include scheduled monthly amortization payments.

      Description                   Principal   Interest Rate    Maturity
                                                                   Date
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 5 1/4% Convertible subordinated   $      289            5.25%        2002
 debentures
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 8% Senior notes                       25,000             8.0%        2002
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Note issued in connection              3,400    LIBOR + 1.25%        2002
 with land purchase
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 5 1/4% Convertible subordinated       75,000            5.25%        2003
 debentures
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Term note with banks (1)             125,000     LIBOR + .95%        2003
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Revolving credit facilities           44,000     LIBOR + .80%        2003
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Mortgage loan                         17,000    LIBOR + 1.35%        2003
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Construction loan                     23,164    LIBOR + 1.35%        2004
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 6.74% Medium Term Notes               39,500            6.74%        2004
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Construction loan                     62,004   LIBOR + 2.125%        2004
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 6.62% Notes                           40,000            6.62%        2005
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 6.99% Medium Term Notes               40,500            6.99%        2006
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 6.82% Medium Term Notes, due 2027,    40,000            6.82%        2007
 redeemable by holder 2007
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 7.48% Debentures due 2027,            50,000            7.48%        2008
 redeemable by holder 2008
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Mortgage loans                        10,204     6.51% - 7.5%        2008
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 8.75% Notes                          175,000            8.75%        2009
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Mortgage loans                        43,271     6.75% - 7.4%        2011
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Amortizing debt                        2,443       7.5% - 10%        2013
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Mortgage loans                       185,000   7.415% - 7.95%        2015
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Municipal bonds                        9,400         Variable        2016
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   $1,010,175
                                   ----------
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(1) During 2001, the Trust entered into interest rate swaps that fixed the LIBOR
interest rate at 5.27%.

     The Trust's obligation to comply with financial covenants in its syndicated
credit facility and term loans could restrict its range of operating activities
and ability to incur indebtedness. These covenants require the Trust to:

   . limit the amount of debt as a percentage of gross asset value to under .6
     to 1 (the Trust maintained a ratio of .44 to 1 as of December 31, 2001);

   . limit the amount of secured debt as a percentage of gross asset value to
     under .35 to 1 (the Trust maintained a ratio of .18 to 1 as of December 31,
     2001);

   . limit the amount of debt so that interest coverage will exceed 1.75 to 1 on
     a rolling four quarter basis (the Trust




     maintained a ratio of 2.17 to 1 as of December 31, 2001);

   . limit the amount of secured debt so that unencumbered asset value to
     unsecured debt will equal or exceed 1.67 to 1 (the Trust maintained a ratio
     of 2.14 to 1 as of December 31, 2001); and

   . limit the total cost of development projects under construction to 30% or
     less of gross asset value (the budgeted total cost of the Trusts projects
     under construction represented 22% of gross asset value as of December 31,
     2001).

     There is no limitation on debt incurrence in the Trust's organizational
documents which could result in it incurring more debt than can be serviced. The
organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of
indebtedness the Trust may incur. Accordingly, the Trust could become highly
leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could increase its risk
of default on its indebtedness, which would adversely affect the Trust's cash
flow and its ability to make distributions to shareholders.

     The Trust depends on external sources of capital for future growth. As with
other REIT's, but unlike corporations generally, the Trust's ability to reduce
its debt and finance its growth must be funded largely by external sources of
capital, because the Trust generally will have to distribute to its shareholders
90% of net taxable income in order to qualify as a REIT, including taxable
income where the Trust does not receive corresponding cash. For taxable years
prior to January 1, 2001, the Trust was required to distribute 95% of its net
taxable income to qualify as a REIT. The Trust's access to external capital will
depend upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the
market's perception of its growth potential, current and potential future
earnings, cash distributions and the market price of the Trust's common shares.

Risks Relating to the Real Estate Industry
- ------------------------------------------

     Because real estate investments are illiquid, the Trust may not be able to
sell properties when appropriate, which could adversely affect its financial
condition. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. As a
result, the Trust may not be able to diversify its portfolio promptly in
response to economic or other conditions. The Trust's inability to respond
rapidly to changes in the performance of its investments could adversely affect
its financial condition and results of operations.

     The Trust's performance and share value will be affected by risks
associated with the real estate industry. Factors that may adversely affect the
economic performance and value of the Trust's properties include:




   . changes in the national, regional and local economic climate;

   . local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for,
     main street retail, residential, office or shopping center properties;

   . the attractiveness of the Trust's properties to shoppers, residents and
     tenants; and

   . competition from other main street retail and mixed-use properties as well
     as community shopping centers, regional shopping malls and the Internet.

     If the Trust co-invests in properties with third parties, it may not
control the management of those properties. The Trust may co-invest in
properties with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other
vehicles. In some of these co-investments, the Trust may acquire non-controlling
interests in, or shared management responsibility for, the affairs of the
property and, therefore, may not be able to control decisions relating to the
property. Even in co-investments where the Trust does control ordinary
management of the property, it may not be able to sell or finance the property
without the consent of the co-investor. Where the Trust acquires non-controlling
interests, the co-investors may be in a position to take action contrary to the
Trust's instructions or requests and contrary to its policies or objectives. If
the Trust shares management responsibilities, it and the co-investor may reach
an impasse on major decisions, such as a sale, because neither the Trust nor the
co-investor would have full control over the management of the investment
property.

     Currently the Trust has co-investors in 8 shopping centers and 9 mixed-use
buildings centered on their retail component. The Trust has the managing general
partnership interest in all of these co-investments, but it must obtain the
consent of the co-investor or meet defined criteria to sell or to finance 10 of
these properties.

     Co-investments may create increased bankruptcy, liability and other risks.
Co-investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other vehicles may involve
risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility
that:

   . the co-investors might fail to fund their share of required capital
     contributions;

   . the co-investors might at any time have economic or other business
     interests or goals which are inconsistent with the Trust's business
     interests or goals; and

   . the Trust may be liable for the actions of its co-investors.

     Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. The




Trust carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss
insurance on its properties. There are, however, some types of losses, such as
lease and other contract claims or losses caused by acts of war, that may not be
insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur,
the Trust could lose all or a portion of the capital it has invested in a
property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. In that
event, the Trust may nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or
other financial obligations related to the property. In addition, there can be
no assurance as to future costs and the scope of coverage that may be available
under the Trust's insurance policies.

     The Trust carries earthquake insurance on all of its properties in
California. These earthquake policies contain coverage limitations. The Trust
also carries environmental insurance on most of its properties, which policies
also contain coverage limitations. The Trust cannot assure shareholders that
material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future.

     Under the terms of certain of the Trust's debt and other agreements, the
Trust is required to maintain adequate insurance coverage. As a result of the
terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, acts of terrorism may no longer be
covered by property insurance and additional coverage for terrorism may be
expensive or unavailable. The Trust has terrorism insurance coverage through
September 30, 2002 and is evaluating the availability and costs of such coverage
thereafter in order to determine whether obtaining any meaningful level of
terrorism coverage is economically feasible. In any event, the Trust's financial
condition and results of operations may be subject to the risks associated with
acts of terrorism and the potential for uninsured losses as a result of any such
act.

     Environmental problems are possible and can be costly. Federal, state and
local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may
require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate
and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such
property. If unidentified environmental problems arise, the Trust may have to
make substantial payments which could adversely affect its cash flow.

     Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of
asbestos. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or
operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties
to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with
exposure to asbestos fibers.

     Investments in real property create a potential for environmental liability
on the part of the current and previous owners of, or any mortgage lender on,
such real property. If hazardous substances are discovered on or emanating from
any property, the owner or operator of the property may be held liable for costs
and liabilities relating to such hazardous substances. The Trust has
environmental insurance on most of its properties. Subject to certain exclusions
and deductibles,




the insurance provides coverage for unidentified, pre-existing conditions and
for future contamination caused by tenants and third parties. The Trust's
current policy is to require an environmental study on each property it seeks
to acquire. On recent acquisitions, any substances identified prior to closing
which are required, by applicable laws, to be remediated have been or are in
the process of investigation and remediation. Costs related to the abatement
of asbestos which increase the value of Trust properties are capitalized. Other
costs are expensed. In 2001 and 2000 approximately $720,000 and $1,453,000,
respectively, was spent on environmental matters, of which $369,000 and
$464,000, respectively, was capitalized abatement costs. The Trust has budgeted
approximately $1,025,000 in 2002 for environmental matters, a majority of which
is projected for asbestos abatement.

Risks Relating to Owning the Trust's Common Shares
- --------------------------------------------------

     An increase in the number of the Trust's common shares that are or become
available for future sale could adversely affect the price for the common
shares. Sales of a substantial number of the Trust's common shares, or the
perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market
prices for the common shares. In addition, holders of limited partnership
interests in some of the subsidiary partnerships have the right to receive
common shares for those limited partnership interests and upon registration or
an exemption from registration will be able to sell their shares freely after
they are received, unless the person is an affiliate. Further, a substantial
number of the Trust's common shares have been and will be issued or reserved for
issuance from time to time under employee benefit plans, including shares paid
to officers and some employees as bonuses pursuant to the incentive compensation
plans and common shares reserved for options, and these common shares would be
available for sale in the public markets from time to time pursuant to
exemptions from registration or upon registration. Moreover, the issuance of
additional common shares by the Trust in the future would be available for sale
in the public markets. The Trust can make no prediction about the effect that
future sales of its common shares would have on the market price of its common
shares.

     The Trust's earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price
of our common shares. The Trust believes that the market value of a REIT's
equity securities is based upon the market's perception of the REIT's growth
potential, its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from
operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and upon the value
of the underlying assets. The Trust's common shares may trade at prices that are
higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent the Trust
retains operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or
other purposes rather than distributing such cash flow to shareholders, these
retained funds, while increasing the value of its underlying assets, may not
correspondingly increase the market price of its common shares.




     Market interest rates may affect the price of the Trust's common shares.
One of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy
or sell shares of a REIT is the dividend distribution rate on such shares,
considered as a percentage of the price of such shares, relative to market
interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of
REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Thus, higher market interest
rates could cause the market price of the Trust's shares to go down.

Risks Relating to Provisions in Governing Documents and Maryland Law, Including
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Limiting Changes in Control
- ---------------------------

     The Board of Trustees may make changes in operating policies without
shareholder approval. The Trust's investment, financing and borrowing policies
and policies with respect to all other activities, such as growth, debt,
capitalization and operations, will be determined by the board of trustees. The
board of trustees may amend or revise these policies at any time and from time
to time at its discretion without a vote of the shareholders. A change in these
policies could adversely affect the financial condition, results of operations
and the market price of the Trust's securities.

     Provisions of the Declaration of Trust and Bylaws and Maryland Law, and the
Shareholder Rights Plan, could inhibit changes in control. Provisions of the
declaration of trust and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that may
delay or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could provide the
Trust's shareholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of
their shares or which might otherwise be in their best interests. These
provisions include:

   . The board's authority to issue preferred shares having a preference as to
     dividends or distributions upon liquidation over the common shares without
     shareholder approval.

   . A staggered board consisting of three classes of trustees and fixed size
     of board of trustees, within a range,




     may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of the board.

   . Special meeting's of the Trust's shareholders may be called only by the
     president, by two-thirds of the trustees or by shareholders possessing not
     less than 25% of all the votes entitled to be cast at such meeting, which
     limits the ability of shareholders to call special meetings.

   . The board of trustees, without a shareholder vote, can classify or
     reclassify unissued shares of beneficial interest, including the
     reclassification of common shares into preferred shares and vice versa.

   . A two-thirds shareholder vote is required to approve some amendments to the
     declaration of trust. These supermajority vote requirements may make it
     difficult for the Trust's shareholders to amend the declaration of trust.

   . The advance notice requirements for proposals to be presented at
     shareholder meetings in the Trust's bylaws may limit the ability of
     shareholders to make nominations for trustees or introduce other proposals
     for consideration at a meeting.

   . Maryland law limitations on changes in control may prevent or delay a
     change in control or other transaction that may provide the Trust's
     shareholders with a premium or which might otherwise be in their best
     interests.




   . Shareholder rights plan. The Trust adopted a shareholder rights plan which
     provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, its
     shareholders will be entitled to purchase from it a number of common shares
     equal in value to two times the purchase price, initially equal to $65.00
     per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of specified events.
     Therefore, for example, if the Trust's common shares had a current market
     value of $21.66 and the purchase price was $65.00, a shareholder would be
     entitled to purchase six common shares for $65.00. The share purchase
     rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) the date of a public
     announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or
     obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the
     Trust's outstanding common shares without the prior consent of the board of
     trustees or (2) ten days after the commencement of or announcement of an
     intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of
     which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of
     15% or more of the Trust's outstanding common shares. The share purchase
     rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts
     to acquire the Trust on terms not approved by the board of trustees.

     If the Trust elects to be governed by it in the future, the Maryland
Control Share Acquisition Law could delay or prevent a change in control. Under
Maryland law, unless a REIT elects not to be subject to the provision, "control
shares" acquired in a "control share acquisition" have no voting rights except
to the extent approved by shareholders by a vote of two-thirds of the votes
entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror and by
officers or trustees who are employees of the REIT. "Control shares" are voting
shares which would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing
trustees within specified ranges of voting power. A "control share acquisition"
means the acquisition of control shares, with some exceptions.

     The Trust's bylaws state that the Maryland control share acquisition law
shall not apply to any acquisition by any person of its common shares. This
bylaw provision may be repealed, in whole or in part, at any time, whether
before or after an acquisition of control shares and, upon such repeal, may, to
the extent provided by any successor bylaw, apply to any prior or subsequent
control share acquisition.

Federal Income Tax Risks Relating to Operating as a Real Estate Investment Trust
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     The Trust intends to qualify as a REIT, but the Trust cannot guarantee that
it will qualify. The Trust believes that it has qualified for taxation as a REIT
for federal income tax purposes commencing with its taxable year ended December
31, 1962. If the Trust qualifies as a REIT, it generally will not be subject to
federal income tax on its income that is distributed to its




shareholders. The Trust plans to continue to meet the requirements for taxation
as a REIT, but there can be no assurance that it will do so. Many of the REIT
requirements are highly technical and complex. The determination that the Trust
is a REIT requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances that
may not be totally within its control. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at
least 95% of its gross income must come from sources that are itemized in the
REIT tax laws. REIT's generally are prohibited from owning more than 10% of the
voting securities or more than 10% of the value of the outstanding securities of
any one issuer, subject to certain exceptions, including an exception with
respect to corporations electing to be "taxable REIT subsidiaries," and are also
required to distribute to shareholders at least 90% of REIT taxable income,
excluding capital gains. Furthermore, Congress and the Internal Revenue Service
might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue
new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the Trust to remain
qualified as a REIT. The Trust does not believe, however, that any pending or
proposed tax law changes would jeopardize its REIT status. If the Trust failed
to qualify as a REIT, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular
corporate rates. Also, unless the Internal Revenue Service granted it relief
under certain statutory provisions, it would remain disqualified as a REIT for
the four years following the year it first failed to qualify.

     If the Trust failed to qualify as a REIT, it would have to pay significant
income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or
for distributions to shareholders. This would likely have a significant adverse
affect on the value of the Trust's common shares.

     The Trust pays some taxes. Even if the Trust does qualify as a REIT, it is
required to pay some federal, state and local taxes on its income and property.
In addition, any net taxable income earned directly by the taxable REIT
subsidiaries is subject to federal, state and local corporate tax. A taxable
REIT subsidiary is a fully taxable corporation and is limited in its ability to
deduct interest payments made to the Trust. In addition, the Trust will be
subject to a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic
arrangements between the Trust, its tenants, and the taxable REIT subsidiary are
not arm's length.

Current Developments
- --------------------

     In 2001 improvements to properties totaled $219.5 million, including $174.0
million on development projects in Bethesda, Maryland; San Jose, California; and
Arlington, Virginia. Construction of Woodmont East in Bethesda, Maryland, a
130,000 square foot retail and office complex, was completed with occupancy at
95% as of December 31, 2001. Construction on the $475 million Phase 1 of Santana
Row, a multi-phased mixed-use project to be built on 42 acres in San Jose,
California continues. Santana Row Phase 1 is expected to begin generating
revenues in the third quarter of 2002 and be stabilized twelve to eighteen
months later. As of December 31, 2001, the Trust has incurred costs of $229
million including the purchase of




the land. Construction also continues on Pentagon Row, a mixed-use project in
Arlington, Virginia. The Trust is developing the retail component which was 95%
leased and 66% occupied as of December 31, 2001. Completion of the retail space
is anticipated during the first quarter of 2002.

     Real estate acquisitions totaling $52.8 million were made in 2001. The
acquisitions consisted of two street retail buildings, one in San Francisco,
California and one in Washington, D.C., the purchase of the fee interest
underlying the capital lease obligation on Brick Plaza, in Brick, New Jersey,
the buy-out of the minority partner's interest in nine street retail buildings
in southern California and the exchange, with the minority partner, of the
Trust's 90% interest in a street retail building in Forest Hills, New York for
the minority partner's 10% interest in three other street retail buildings, also
located in Forest Hills, New York.

     The Trust invested $900,000 in mortgage notes receivable with a weighted
average interest rate of 10.0%, with $4.2 million of notes being repaid.
Williamsburg Shopping Center in Williamsburg, Virginia was sold in April 2001
for $16.7 million, resulting in a gain of $7.9 million. 101 E. Oak Street, a
street retail property in Chicago, Illinois, was sold in December 2001 for $6.1
million, resulting in a gain of $1.8 million. The exchange of properties in
Forest Hills, New York with the minority partner resulted in an accounting loss
of approximately $500,000.

     In April 2001 the Trust closed on a $295 million construction loan for
Santana Row. The initial funding of the construction loan took place in August
2001 when the equity and pre-leasing requirements were met.

     In November 2001 the Trust issued 5.4 million 8.5% Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares at $25 per share in a public offering, netting
approximately $130.8 million in cash which was used to pay down the Trust's
syndicated credit facility.

     The Trust utilized its syndicated credit facility, the proceeds from the
sale of Williamsburg Shopping Center and the construction loan for Santana Row
to fund its 2001 acquisitions and capital expenditures.

     At December 31, 2001 the Trust has 243 full-time employees.

Subsequent Events
- -----------------

     On February 28, 2002 the Trust adopted a business plan which returns the
Trust's primary focus to its traditional business of acquiring and redeveloping
community and neighborhood shopping centers that are anchored by supermarkets,
drug stores or high volume, value oriented retailers that provide consumer
necessities. Concurrent with the adoption of the business plan, the Trust
adopted a management succession plan and restructured its management team.




     The Trust will complete Bethesda Row, Pentagon Row and Santana Row, but
does not plan any new, large-scale, mixed-use, ground-up development projects.
Rather, the Trust will return its focus to community and neighborhood shopping
centers. The Trust will seek to acquire income producing centers, may seek
opportunities to develop ground-up grocery anchored shopping centers in and
around the Metropolitan Washington, D.C., Philadelphia and New York markets and
will identify and execute redevelopment opportunities in its existing portfolio.

     Steven J. Guttman, the Trust's Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board, will primarily devote his attention to the completion of Santana Row.
Upon Mr. Guttman's planned retirement in March 2003, it is expected that Donald
C. Wood will become Chief Executive Officer with Mr. Guttman remaining as
Chairman of the Board. Effective March 1, 2002, the Trust combined functions of
its previous Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and appointed
Larry E. Finger, to the new executive office of Chief Financial Officer in
charge of capital markets, investor relations and financial reporting. With the
renewed emphasis on acquisitions, Jeffrey S. Berkes was appointed an executive
officer, Senior Vice President - Strategic Transactions.

     As a result of the change in the Trust's business plan, the Trust estimates
it will record a charge of $16 million to $18 million in the first quarter of
2002. The charge includes severance and other compensation costs related to the
management restructuring as well as charges to write-down the Trust's
Tanasbourne and other development projects to fair value since the Trust will
hold the Tanasbourne project for sale. The Trust is re-evaluating the most
effective way to realize value on these assets on a risk-adjusted return basis.




Executive Officers of the Trust
- -------------------------------

     The Executive Officers at December 31, 2001 were:

     Name                Age        Position with Trust
     ----                ---        -------------------

Steven J. Guttman        55         Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
                                    Officer

Donald C. Wood           41         President and Chief Operating Officer

Nancy J. Herman          38         Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
                                    Secretary

Ron D. Kaplan            38         Senior Vice President-Capital Markets, Chief
 (terminated employment             Investment Officer
  as of March 1, 2002)

Cecily A. Ward           55         Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and
 (Ceased serving as an              Treasurer
  Executive Officer on
  February 28, 2002 and
  will terminate
  employment late 2002)

New appointees to serve as Executive Officers on March 1, 2002 are:

Jeffrey S. Berkes        38         Senior Vice President - Strategic
                                    Transactions

Larry E. Finger          48         Senior Vice President - Chief Financial
                                    Officer and Treasurer

Steven J. Guttman, the Trust's President and Chief Executive Officer since April
1980 was on February 14, 2001 appointed Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer. Mr. Guttman has been associated with the Trust since 1972,
became Chief Operating Officer in 1975 and a Managing Trustee in 1979.

Donald C. Wood was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer on February
14, 2001, prior to that time he served as Senior Vice President - Chief
Operating Officer. Mr. Wood joined the Trust in May 1998 as Senior Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Prior to joining the Trust,
Mr. Wood was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Caesars
World, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ITT Corporation, where he was
responsible for all aspects of finance throughout the company including
strategic planning, process re-engineering, capital allocation and financial
analysis. Prior to joining ITT in 1990, Mr. Wood was employed at Arthur Andersen
LLP from 1982 where he served in numerous positions including audit manager.




Nancy J. Herman became the Trust's Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
on December 21, 1998 and was appointed Senior Vice President on July 1, 2000. In
this position, Ms. Herman has overall responsibility for the Trust's legal
affairs and human resources. Ms. Herman joined the Trust in 1990 as a staff
attorney. Prior to joining the Trust in 1990, Ms. Herman practiced real estate
law at Hogan & Hartson L.L.P.

Ron D. Kaplan joined the Trust in November 1992 as Senior Vice President-Capital
Markets. Mr. Kaplan was formerly a Vice President of Salomon Brothers Inc where
he was responsible for capital raising and financial advisory services for
public and private real estate companies. While at Salomon Brothers which he
joined in 1985, he participated in two of the Trust's debt offerings. Mr. Kaplan
terminated employment effective March 1, 2002. Under the terms of his severance
agreement with the Trust, he will serve as a consultant until September 30,
2002.

Cecily A. Ward was appointed Vice President - Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer on February 9, 2000. Ms. Ward had previously served as Vice President
- - Controller and Treasurer. Ms. Ward joined the Trust in April 1987 as
Controller. Prior to joining the Trust, Ms. Ward, a certified public accountant,
was employed by Grant Thornton LLP. Ms. Ward ceased serving as an executive
officer on February 28, 2002. Under the terms of her severance agreement with
the Trust, she will serve as vice-president until August 30, 2002 during which
time she will transition her duties to other Trust personnel.

Jeffrey S. Berkes was appointed Senior Vice President - Strategic Transactions,
effective February 28, 2002. Mr. Berkes oversees acquisition and dispositions
for the Trust. He joined the Trust in February 2000 as Vice President -
Strategic Transactions. From September 1998 until joining the Trust in February
2000, Mr. Berkes was Vice President of Acquisitions and Finance for Velsor
Properties LLC, a northern Virginia-based private real estate investment firm.
From April 1997 to August 1998, he was Director of Acquisitions for Federal
Realty. Prior to his first tenure at Federal Realty in 1997, he was Vice
President of Acquisitions for Heitman Financial.

Larry E. Finger joined the Trust on March 1, 2002 as Senior Vice President -
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer when the functions of Chief Investment
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, previously held by Mr. Kaplan and Ms. Ward,
respectively, were combined. Mr. Finger will be in charge of capital markets,
investor relations and financial reporting. Prior to joining the Trust, Mr.
Finger was with Washington Real Estate Investment Trust from 1993 through
October 15, 2001, where he most recently served as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer responsible for capital markets, financial reporting,
public relations and investor relations.




Item 2. Properties

Retail Properties
  The following table sets forth information concerning each retail property in
     which the Trust owns an equity interest or has a leasehold interest as of
     December 31, 2001. Except as otherwise noted, retail properties are 100%
     owned in fee by the Trust.

































  (1)     Overall occupancy is expressed as a percentage of rentable square
            feet and includes square feet covered by leases for stores not yet
            opened. Economic occupancy is expressed as a percentage of rentable
            square feet , but only includes leases currently generating rental
            income.
  (2)     Represents the physical square feet of the property, which may exceed
            the rentable square feet used to express occupancy.
  (3)     Acreage on each individual main street retail building is not
            significant.
  (4)     The Trust has a leasehold interest in this property.
  (5)     The Trust owns a 99.99% general partnership interest in these
            properties.
  (6)     The Trust owns a 55.7% equity interest in this center.
  (7)     The Trust owns this property in a "downreit" partnership.
  (8)     This property contains twelve buildings; seven are subject to a
            leasehold interest, one is subject to a ground lease and four are
            owned 100% by the Trust.
  (9)     The Trust owns this property subject to a ground lease.
 (10)     As of December 31, 2001 the Trust owns the controlling interest in
            this center.  A minority owner with an interest in the profits of
            the center was bought out on February 1, 2002.
 (11)     Occupancy is based on three completed buildings, the fourth building
            is under development.
 (12)     As of December 31, 2001 the Trust owns 100% of three buildings and a
            90% general partnership interest in one building.
 (13)     As of December 31, 2001 the Trust owns 100% of seven buildings and a
            90% general partnership interest in two buildings.
 (14)     Under development.
 (15)     The Trust is redeveloping these properties, many of which are
            currently vacant.
 (16)     As of December 31, 2001 the Trust owns 100% of one building, a 90%
            general partnership interest in two buildings and a 75% LLC interest
            in one building.
 (17)     The Trust owns 100% of one building and an 85% partnership interest
            in the second building.
 (18)     The Trust owns a 90% general partnership interest in these buildings.
 (19)     Occupancy is based on two occupied buildings in Pasadena, CA. Two
            additional buildings are currently under redevelopment.
 (20)     As of December 31, 2001 the Trust owns the controlling interest in
            this center.





Apartments

The following table sets forth information concerning the Trust's apartment
development as of December 31, 2001 which is 100% owned by the Trust in fee.
This development is not subject to rent control.






Item 3.     Legal Proceedings.
- ------      -----------------

     None

Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
- ------      ---------------------------------------------------

     None

Item 5.     Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
- ------      -------------------------------------------------------------
            Matters.
            --------

     The Trust's common shares of beneficial interest are listed on the New
York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "FRT".

The following table shows the high and low sales prices of the common shares as
reported on the NYSE over the past two years, as well as the amounts of
quarterly dividends declared over that period. The Trust generally pays
dividends in the quarter after they are declared.

                                             Dividends
Quarter ended            High      Low        Declared
- -------------            ----      ---       ---------

December 31, 2001       $23.67      $21.04     $.48
September 30, 2001       23.71       20.32      .48
June 30, 2001            21.56       18.98      .47
March 31, 2001           20.20       19.0625    .47

December 31, 2000       $20.00      $18.75     $.47
September 30, 2000       21.9375     19.125     .47
June 30, 2000            22.3125     18.9375    .45
March 31, 2000           20.50       17.75      .45

     The number of holders of record for Federal Realty's common shares of
beneficial interest at March 7, 2002 was 5,932.

     For the year ended December 31, 2000, $.11 of dividends paid on common
shares represented a return of capital and $.04 of dividends paid on common
shares represented capital gain. There was no return of capital or capital
gains for the year ended December 31, 2001.

     The Trust intends to pay regular quarterly distributions to its common
stockholders. Future distributions will depend upon cash generated by operating
activities, the Trust's financial condition, capital requirements, annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code and such other factors as the Board of Trustees deems relevant.




Item 6.     Selected Financial Data.
            -----------------------

In thousands, except per share data








(1)  Determined in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board
Statement No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows.

(2)  As of January 1, 2000, funds from operations is defined by the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT) as income available for
common shareholders before depreciation and amortization of real estate assets
and before extraordinary items less gains (losses) on sale of real estate.
Prior to January 1, 2000 funds from operation also excluded significant
nonrecurring events. Funds from operations differs from net cash provided by
operating activities primarily because funds from operations does not include
changes in operating assets and liabilities. Funds from operations is a
supplemental measure of performance used in the real estate industry that does
not replace net income as a measure of performance or net cash provided by
operating activities as a measure of liquidity. Rather, funds from operations
has been adopted by real estate investment trusts to provide a consistent
measure of operating performance in the industry. Nevertheless, funds from
operations, as presented by the Trust, may not be comparable to funds from
operations as presented by other real estate investment trusts.




The calculation of funds from operations for the periods presented is reflected
in the following table:






Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Results of Operations
- ---------------------

     The following discussion should be read together with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto of Federal Realty Investment Trust (the
"Trust").

     The Trust is engaged in the ownership, management, development and
redevelopment of high quality retail and mixed-use properties. The Trust,
which has traditionally acquired and redeveloped community and neighborhood
shopping centers, expanded its investments to the development of urban
mixed-used properties, beginning in 1997. Management continually evaluates the
future prospects of its real estate portfolio, not only to identify expansion
and renovation opportunities, but also to identify properties that no longer
fit the Trust's investment criteria and therefore, should be monetized or
exchanged into other real estate assets. At December 31, 2001 the Trust owned
120 retail properties and one apartment complex.

Critical Accounting Policies
- ----------------------------

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that in certain circumstances affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities, and revenues and expenses. These estimates are prepared using
management's best judgment, after considering past and current events. Actual
results could differ from these estimates. The most significant accounting
policies which involve the use of estimates and assumptions as to future
uncertainties and, therefore, may result in actuals differing from estimates
are as follows.

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable
- -------------------------------------------

     Leases with tenants are classified as operating leases. Minimum rents are
recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases net
of valuation adjustments based on management's assessment of credit,
collection and other business risk. The Trust makes estimates of the
collectibility of its accounts receivable, related to base rents including
straight line rentals, expense reimbursements and other revenue or income. In
some cases the ultimate collectibility of these claims exceeds beyond a year.
These estimates have a direct impact on the Trust's net income, because a
higher bad debt reserve results in less net income.

Real Estate
- -----------

     Land, buildings and real estate under development are recorded at cost.
Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method with useful lives
ranging from three to 50 years on buildings and improvements. Maintenance and
repair costs are charged to operations as incurred. Tenant work and other
major improvements are capitalized and depreciated over the life of the




lease or their estimated useful life, respectively. Certain external and
internal costs directly related to the development, redevelopment and leasing
of real estate including applicable salaries and their related direct costs
are capitalized. The capitalized costs associated with developments,
redevelopments and leasing are depreciated or amortized over the life of the
improvement and lease, respectively. Unamortized leasing costs and
undepreciated tenant work are charged to operations if the applicable tenant
vacates before the expiration of its lease.

     The Trust, when applicable as lessee, classifies its leases of land and
buildings as operating or capital leases in accordance with the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 13, "Accounting for
Leases". The Trust is required to use judgment and make estimates in determining
the lease term, the estimated economic life of the property and the interest
rate to be used in applying the provisions of SFAS No. 13. These estimates
determine whether or not the lease meets the qualification of a capital lease
and is recorded as an asset.

     The Trust is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful
lives of its real estate for purposes of determining the amount of
depreciation to reflect on an annual basis. These assessments have a direct
impact on net income. Should the Trust lengthen the expected useful life of an
asset, it would be depreciated over more years, resulting in less annual
depreciation expense and higher annual net income. Likewise, the Trust must
make subjective assumptions as to which costs should be capitalized. These
assumptions have a direct impact on net income, because the capitalization of
costs results in higher net income.

     Interest costs on developments and major redevelopments are capitalized as
part of the development and redevelopment. Capitalization of interest
commences when development activities and expenditures begin and end upon
completion, i.e. when the asset is ready for its intended used. Generally
rental property is considered substantially complete and ready for its
intended use upon completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one
year from completion of major construction activity. The Trust makes judgments
as to the time period over which to capitalize costs and these assumptions
have a direct impact on net income. If the time period is extended, more
interest is capitalized, thereby increasing net income.

Long-Lived Assets
- -----------------

     The Trust evaluates the carrying value of its long-lived assets in
accordance with SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of". In cases where particular
assets are being held for sale, impairment is based on whether the fair value
(estimated sales price less costs of disposal) of each individual property to be
sold is less than the net book value. Otherwise, impairment is based on whether
it is probable that undiscounted future cash flows from each property will be
less than its net book value. If a property is impaired, its basis is adjusted
to its fair market value.

     The Trust is required to make estimates of undiscounted cash flows in
determining whether there is an impairment. Actual results could be
significantly different from the estimates. These estimates have a direct
impact on net income, because taking an impairment results in a negative
adjustment to net income.




Contingencies
- -------------

     The Trust is involved in various lawsuits and environmental matters
arising in the ordinary course of business. Management makes assumptions and
estimates concerning the amount and likelihood of loss relating to these
matters. These estimates and assumptions have a direct impact on net income,
because the likelihood of loss and a higher amount of loss result in less net
income.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

     The Trust meets its liquidity requirements through net cash provided by
operating activities, along with debt and equity funding alternatives
available to it. A significant portion of cash provided by operating
activities is distributed to common and preferred shareholders in the form of
dividends. Accordingly, capital outlays for property acquisitions, major
renovation and development projects and balloon debt repayments require debt
or equity funding. At times, proceeds from the sale of selected assets may
also provide an additional source of capital. From 1998 until November 2001,
the Trust relied primarily on debt to fund these capital needs, and
accordingly, debt as a percentage of total capitalization steadily increased
over that period. In November 2001 the Trust issued $135 million of preferred
stock. In the future, the Trust will look to common, preferred and
joint-venture equity in addition to debt to fund longer term growth needs.

     Net cash provided by operating activities was $108.5 million in 2001,
$106.1 million in 2000, and $102.2 million in 1999, of which $80.6 million,
$77.5 million, and $76.6 million, respectively, was distributed to
shareholders. Contributions from newly acquired properties and from
retenanted and redeveloped properties, as more fully described below, were the
primary sources of these increases.

      Net cash used in investing activities was $232.1 million in 2001, $121.7
million in 2000, and $99.3 million in 1999. The Trust acquired real estate
assets totaling $52.8 million in 2001, $26.8 million in 2000, and $26.4
million in 1999 requiring cash outlays of $61.4 million, $52.8 million to
purchase new assets and $8.6 million to purchase the capital lease obligation
on Brick Plaza and to fund the buy-out of the minority partners' interests;
$23.6 million; and $25.3 million, respectively. During these same three years
the Trust expended an additional $199.1 million, $145.8 million, and $90.8
million in capital improvements to its properties, of which $158.0 million in
2001, $81.0 million in 2000 and $32.6 million in 1999 related to new
development. The Trust received mortgage note repayments, net of funds
invested, of $3.3 million in 2001 and $494,000 in 2000. The Trust invested,
net of loan repayments, $2.3 million in 1999 in mortgage notes receivable. The
weighted average stated interest rate on these loans was 10.0% for the years
1999 through 2001. Certain of these mortgages also participate in the gross
revenues and appreciation and are convertible into ownership interests in the
properties by which they are secured. Cash of $25.1 million in 2001, $47.2
million in 2000 and $19.2 million in 1999 was received from the sale of
properties.




     During 2001 the Trust expended cash of $61.4 million to acquire real
estate and an additional $199.1 million to improve, redevelop and develop its
existing real estate. Of the $199.1 million spent in 2001 on the Trust's
existing real estate portfolio, approximately $158.0 million was invested in
the Trust's development projects, primarily the projects in Bethesda,
Maryland; San Jose, California; and in Arlington, Virginia. The remaining
$41.0 million of capital expenditures relates to improvements to common areas,
tenant work and various redevelopments, including the office expansion and
retenanting of Willow Lawn Shopping Center, the renovation of Brunswick
Shopping Center, the redevelopment of retail buildings in San Antonio, Texas
and the redevelopment and retenanting of certain of the Trust's California
street retail buildings.

     On February 16, 2001 the Trust bought the fee interest underlying the
capital lease obligation of $21.4 million, thereby terminating the capital
lease, on Brick Plaza in Brick, New Jersey for a purchase price of $28
million. A mortgage note receivable of $3.2 million owed to the Trust by the
lessor and a $3 million security deposit on the capital lease were credited to
the purchase price, resulting in a cash outlay of approximately $21.5 million.

     On March 1, 2001 the limited partners in two partnerships, owning street
retail properties in southern California, exercised their rights under the
partnership agreements and put their interests to the Trust for $18.1 million
plus additional consideration to be determined based upon meeting certain
leasing requirements in the future. The Trust paid the initial $18.1 million,
$11.4 million in cash at closing and the $6.7 million balance in 328,116 common
shares issued to the limited partners on June 19, 2001. To date, leasing
transactions have resulted in a purchase price adjustment of $188,000;
$160,000 of which was paid by the issuance of 7,120 common shares on December
6, 2001 and the remainder paid in cash. The Trust estimates that an additional
$1.0 to $1.2 million will be owed to the limited partners upon completion of
certain other leasing transactions.

     In connection with the buyout of the minority partner at Santana Row in a
transaction being structured as a tax-free exchange the Trust made an equity
investment of $2.6 million and a loan of $5.9 million to a partnership which
purchased a building for $8.5 million. Upon consummation of the exchange in
January 2002, the Trust received the minority interest in Santana Row in
exchange for its $2.6 million investment in the building. The $5.9 million
loan is due to the Trust on January 12, 2003.

     On April 27, 2001 the Trust sold the Williamsburg Shopping Center in
Williamsburg, Virginia for $16.7 million resulting in a gain of $7.9 million.
The proceeds from the sale were held by a qualified intermediary until the
execution of a tax-free exchange for Friendship Center.

     On September 21, 2001 the Trust purchased Friendship Center, a 119,000
square foot street retail property in Washington, D.C. for $33.4 million. The
purchase price was funded from the proceeds from the sale of Williamsburg
Shopping Center and a $17.0 million




mortgage loan.

     On December 18, 2001 the Trust sold the street retail property located at
101 E. Oak Street in Chicago, Illinois for $6.1 million resulting in a gain of
$1.8 million. The proceeds from the sale are being held by a qualified
intermediary for purposes of executing a tax-free property exchange.

     On December 30, 2001 the Trust exchanged its 90% interest in a street
retail building in Forest Hills, New York to the minority partner in exchange
for the minority partners 10% interest in three other street retail buildings
in Forest Hills, New York resulting in an accounting loss of approximately
$500,000.

     Net cash provided by financing activities, before dividend payments, was
$210.4 million in 2001, $92.7 million in 2000, and $68.3 million in 1999. The
Trust utilized the proceeds from the sale of Williamsburg Shopping Center, its
syndicated credit facility and the construction loan for Santana Row to fund
acquisitions, most capital expenditures and balloon debt repayments.

     On April 12, 2001 the Trust obtained a $33 million mortgage loan secured
by Brick Plaza in Brick, New Jersey. The mortgage, which bears interest at
7.415%, matures November 15, 2015. The loan provides for interest only
payments for the initial 29 months, then monthly principal and interest
payments based on a twenty-seven year amortization schedule until the maturity
date. The proceeds from the mortgage loan were used to fund the purchase of
the fee interest of Brick Plaza.

     On April 17, 2001 the Trust closed on a $295 million construction loan
for Santana Row in San Jose, California, which is described below.

     On May 3, 2001 the Trust refinanced the mortgage loan secured by Federal
Plaza in Rockville, Maryland. The new $36.5 million mortgage loan bears
interest at 6.75% and matures on June 1, 2011. The loan provides for monthly
principal and interest payments of $236,700 based on a thirty year
amortization schedule until the maturity date. The proceeds from the
refinancing were first used to payoff the outstanding mortgage balance on the
property of $26.5 million. The remaining proceeds were used to pay down the
Trust's syndicated credit facility.

     On August 30, 2001 the Trust refinanced the mortgage loan secured by
Tysons Station in Falls Church, Virginia. The new $7.0 million mortgage bears
interest at 7.4% and matures on September 1, 2011. The loan provides for
monthly principal and interest payments of $51,300 based on a twenty-five year
amortization schedule until the maturity date. The proceeds from the
refinancing were first used to payoff the outstanding mortgage balance on the
property of $3.9 million. The remaining proceeds were used to pay down on the
Trust's syndicated credit facility.

     In connection with the purchase of Friendship Center in Washington, D.C.
on September 21, 2001 the Trust placed a $17.0 million mortgage on the
property. The loan, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 135 basis points,
matures September 22, 2003 with three




one-year extension options. The loan provides for interest only payments
through maturity.

     On November 19, 2001 the Trust issued 5.4 million 8.5% Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares at $25 per share in a public offering,
netting approximately $130.8 million. The proceeds from the share issuance
were used to pay down the Trust's syndicated credit facility.

     The Trust has a $300 million syndicated credit facility with seven banks
which is due December 19, 2003. This facility requires fees and has various
covenants including the maintenance of a minimum shareholders' equity and a
maximum ratio of debt to net worth. At December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, $44.0
million, $78.0 million and $34.0 million, respectively, was borrowed under the
syndicated credit facility. The maximum borrowed during 2001, 2000 and 1999
was $183.5 million, $218.1 million and $205.0 million, respectively. The
weighted average interest rate on borrowings during 2001, 2000 and 1999 was
4.9%, 7.1% and 5.9%, respectively.

     In December 1998, the Trust obtained a four-year loan of $125 million
from five institutional lenders. The loan requires fees and has the same
covenants as the syndicated credit facility. In 2000, the loan was extended
for an additional year to December 19, 2003. The weighted average interest
rate on the term loan during 2001, 2000 and 1999 was 6.4%, 7.4% and
6.1%, respectively.

     In order to minimize the risk of changes in interest rates the Trust will
enter into derivative contracts, which qualify as cash flow hedges. During
2001, to hedge its exposure to interest rates on its $125 million term loan,
the Trust entered into interest rate swaps, which fixed the LIBOR interest
rate on the term loan at 5.27%. The current interest rate on the term loan is
LIBOR plus 95 basis points thus fixing the interest rate at 6.22% on notional
amounts totaling $125 million. The interest rate swaps mature concurrently
with the $125 million term loan on December 19, 2003. There were no open hedge
agreements at December 31, 2000.

     Capital requirements in 2002 will depend upon acquisition opportunities,
the rate of build-out on the Trust's current developments and the level of
improvements and redevelopments on existing properties. The Trust has budgeted
approximately $240 million for 2002 for its Santana Row and Pentagon Row
developments and $52 million for redevelopments and expansions of its existing
portfolio, tenant work and improvements to the core portfolio. The Trust's
syndicated credit facility, with $256 million available at December 31, 2001,
and the $295 million Santana Row construction loan are anticipated to be
sufficient to fund these needs.

     The Trust will need additional capital in order to fund acquisitions,
expansions and any new developments, including future phases of Santana Row,
if any, and to refinance its maturing debt. Sources of this future funding may
be additional debt, both secured and unsecured, additional equity and joint
venture relationships.

     The Trust's long term debt has varying maturity dates and in a number of
instances includes balloon payments or other contractual provisions that could
require significant repayments during a




particular period. In 2002, the $23.2 million construction loan on Woodmont
East matures, unless the options to extend are exercised, as well as the $3.4
million note held in connection with the land held for future development in
Hillsboro, Oregon and $25.0 million of Senior Notes. The next significant
maturities occur in 2003 when $75.0 million of Senior Notes are due in October
and the $17 million Friendship Center mortgage loan, if the option to extend
is not exercised, is due in September. In addition, the Trust's syndicated
credit facility and its $125 million term loan expire in December 2003.

Santana Row

     In 2002, the Trust's single largest capital use is anticipated to be the
development of Santana Row, a multi-phase mixed-use project being built on 42
acres in San Jose, California in the heart of Silicon Valley. The project will
consist of residential, retail and hotel components, creating a community with
the feel of an urban district. Phase 1 of the project includes Santana Row,
the "1,500 foot long main street" and nine buildings which will contain
approximately 538,000 square feet of retail space, 501 residential units, a
214 room hotel and the supporting infrastructure. Eight buildings comprising
440,000 square feet of retail space are expected to be completed during the
third and fourth quarters of 2002 with the ninth building being completed
twelve to eighteen months later. The total cost of Phase 1 is expected to be
$475 million. As of December 31, 2001, the Trust has incurred costs of $229
million including the purchase of the land; the Trust estimates that it will
spend approximately $225 million in 2002 and the balance in 2003 to complete
the first phase of the project.

     On April 17, 2001, the Trust closed on a $295 million construction loan.
The loan, which initially bears interest at LIBOR plus 212.5 basis points,
matures April 16, 2004 with two one-year extension options, subject to
obtaining certain operating targets. The interest rate will decrease to LIBOR
plus 187.5 basis points then to LIBOR plus 162.5 basis points upon the
achievement of certain leasing, occupancy and net operating income hurdles.
There is no assurance that these targets and hurdles will be met. The
construction loan requires fees and has various covenants including the
maintenance of a minimum shareholders' equity and a maximum ratio of debt to
gross asset value. The initial funding of the construction loan took place on
August 23, 2001 when the equity and pre-leasing requirements were met. As of
December 31, 2001, $62.0 million was borrowed under the loan.

     The success of Santana Row will depend on many factors which cannot be
assured and are not entirely within the Trust's control. These factors include
among others, the demand for retail and residential space and at what rents,
the ability to construct the current and later phases at reasonable costs, the
cost of operations, including utilities and insurance, the availability and
cost of capital and the general economy, particularly in the Silicon Valley.

     The Trust has not finalized the cost and scope for all future




phases of Santana Row and will not do so until the success of Phase 1 and
future demand for rental space can be determined. However, as Phase 1 utilizes
only part of the retail and residential entitlements of the property, and as
Phase 1 contains infrastructure for further phases, the Trust expects to
identify and execute economically viable additional phases to the project.

Subsequent Events
- -----------------

        On February 28, 2002 the Trust adopted a business plan which returns
the Trust's primary focus to its traditional business of acquiring and
redeveloping community and neighborhood shopping centers that are anchored by
supermarkets, drug stores or high volume, value oriented retailers that
provide consumer necessities. Concurrent with the adoption of the business
plan, the Trust adopted a management succession plan and restructured its
management team.

        The Trust will complete Bethesda Row, Pentagon Row and Santana Row, but
does not plan any new, large-scale, mixed-use, ground-up development projects.
Rather, the Trust will return its focus to community and neighborhood shopping
centers. The Trust will seek to acquire income producing centers, may seek
opportunities to develop ground-up grocery anchored shopping centers in and
around the Metropolitan Washington, D.C., Philadelphia and New York markets and
will identify and execute redevelopment opportunities in its existing portfolio.

        Steven J. Guttman, the Trust's Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of
the Board, will primarily devote his attention to the completion of Santana Row.
Upon Mr. Guttman's planned retirement in March 2003, it is expected that Donald
C. Wood will become Chief Executive Officer with Mr. Guttman remaining as
Chairman of the Board. Effective March 1, 2002, the Trust combined functions of
its previous Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and appointed
Larry E. Finger, to the new executive office of Chief Financial Officer in
charge of capital markets, investor relations and financial reporting. With the
renewed emphasis on acquisitions, Jeffrey S. Berkes was appointed an executive
officer, Senior Vice President - Strategic Transactions.

As a result of the change in the Trust's business plan, the Trust estimates it
will record a charge of $16 million to $18 million in the first quarter of 2002.
The charge includes severance and other compensation costs related to the
management restructuring as well as charges to write-down the Trust's
Tanasbourne and other development projects to fair value since the Trust will
hold the Tanasbourne project for sale. The Trust is re-evaluating the most
effective way to realize value on these assets on a risk-adjusted return basis.

Contingencies
- -------------

     Pentagon Row is a mixed-use project with the retail component being
developed by the Trust and the residential component being developed by an
unrelated developer. In October 2000 the general contractor on the project was
replaced by the Trust and the




residential developer, because of schedule delays and other events that caused
the Trust and the residential developer to conclude that the original
contractor was either unable or unwilling to comply with its contractual
obligations. The Trust and the residential developer filed suit against the
original contractor to recover damages that are being incurred as a result of
defaults under the contract. Though not quantifiable until the project is
completed, the combined damage claim is estimated to be in excess of $40.0
million. The original contractor filed a counterclaim against the Trust and
the residential developer for damages of $7 million plus interest, attorneys'
fees and litigation costs. The Trust believes that the counterclaim is
generally without merit and that the outcome of the counterclaim will not have
a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or
on the project. Work continues under the direction of the new general
contractor. Due to the delay and other costs associated with the change in
general contractor the estimated cost of the project is now $92 million, if
there is no recovery of damages from the original general contractor. The
lawsuit against the original contractor is scheduled for mediation in May
2002, and, should mediation prove unsuccessful, is scheduled to go to trial in
October 2002.

     In addition, the Trust is involved in various other lawsuits and
environmental matters arising in the normal course of business. Management
believes that such matters will not have a material effect on the financial
condition or results of operations of the Trust.

     Under the terms of the Congressional Plaza partnership agreement, from
and after January 1, 1986 Rockville Plaza Company, an unaffiliated third
party, has the right to require the Trust and the two other minority partners
to purchase from half to all of Rockville Plaza Company's 37.5% interest in
Congressional Plaza at the interest's then-current fair market value. Based on
management's current estimate of fair market value, the Trust's estimated
liability upon exercise of the put option is approximately $27.5 million. In
conjunction with a redevelopment currently taking place at the property, the
Trust has reached an agreement with Rockville Plaza Company to acquire an
additional 7.5% interest in Congressional Plaza in exchange for funding
approximately $7 million of Rockville Plaza Company's share of the
redevelopment cost. This funding will take place through 2002 and the
transaction will be completed in 2003.

     Under the terms of five other partnership agreements, if certain leasing
and revenue levels are obtained for the properties owned by the partnerships,
the limited partners may require the Trust to purchase their partnership
interests at a formula price based upon net operating income. The purchase
price may be paid in cash or for two of the partnerships, a limited number of
common shares of the Trust at the election of the limited partners. In certain
of the partnerships, if the limited partners do not redeem their interest, the
Trust may choose to purchase the limited partnership interests upon the same
terms.

     Under the terms of other partnership agreements, the partners may redeem
their 904,589 operating units for cash or exchange into the same number of
common shares of the Trust, at the option of the




Trust

     As of December 31, 2001 in connection with renovation and development
projects, the Trust has contractual obligations of approximately $172 million,
including approximately $154 million for Santana Row.

     A subcontractor of the Trust's Santana Row project has entered into a
contract with a wood supply company in which a trustee of the Trust owns an
indirect 9.7% interest. The contract provides for a payment to the company of
approximately $330,000 for wood flooring. The dollar amount of the contract does
not represent a material amount of business to the wood supply company. Terms
of the contract were negotiated at arms-length.

     The centerpiece of Santana Row is a four-star, 214 room boutique hotel. The
Trust has entered into a 99 year ground lease with the hotel requiring minimum
rent of $450,000 per annum with rental increases every five years and percentage
rent on room, parking and other revenues. The Trust has committed to loan $7.2
million to the hotel. The loan bears interest at rates ranging from 12% to 15%
and has a ten year term. During the first five years, interest is payable from
cash flow, if available. If cash flow is not sufficient to pay interest, it will
accrue and bear interest at the same rate as the initial principal. In addition,
the Trust has committed approximately $5.5 million to four restaurant joint
ventures at Santana Row in lieu of tenant allowances. The Trust will participate
in profits, losses and cash flow in accordance with the terms of each individual
venture.





Results of Operations
- ---------------------

     The Trust's retail leases generally provide for minimum rents with
periodic increases. Most retail tenants pay a majority of on-site operating
expenses and real estate taxes. Many leases also contain a percentage rent
clause which calls for additional rents based on gross tenant sales. These
features in the Trust's leases reduce the Trust's exposure to higher costs
caused by inflation and allow it to participate in improved tenant sales.

Consolidated Results
- --------------------

2001 vs. 2000
- -------------

     Rental income, which consists of minimum rent, percentage rent and cost
recoveries, increased 7.4 % from $260.7 million in 2000 to $279.9 million in
2001. On a same center basis, rental income increased 6.4%, due primarily to
the favorable impact of redeveloped and retenanted centers, as well as,
increases associated with lease rollovers and increased cost recoveries. Same
center basis, in 2001, excludes Williamsburg Shopping Center in Williamsburg,
Virginia and Peninsula Shopping Center in Palos Verdes, California which were
sold on April 27, 2001 and June 30, 2000, respectively, as well as, properties
acquired and properties under development in 2000 and 2001, including
Friendship Center in Washington, D.C., Woodmont East in Bethesda, Maryland,
Pentagon Row in Arlington, Virginia, 214 Wilshire Boulevard in Santa Monica,
California and Town & Country Shopping Center in San Jose, California, which
was demolished to make way for the new Santana Row development.

     Other property income includes items, which although recurring, tend to
fluctuate more than rental income from period to period, such as utility
reimbursements, telephone income, merchant association dues, late fees, lease
termination fees and temporary tenant income. Other property income increased
26.3% from $11.1 million in 2000 to $14.0 million in 2001 due primarily to
increases in lease termination fees of $1.2 million and parking income. On a
same center basis, other property income increased 18.4%.

     Rental expenses increased 12.8% from $56.3 million in 2000 to $63.5
million in 2001. Increased leasing and marketing costs associated with the
Trust's development projects, as well as operating costs associated with the
Woodmont East project which was in service for a full year in 2001 were major
components of this overall increase. Rental expense as a percentage of
property income, rental income plus other property income, increased from
20.7% in 2000 to 21.6% in 2001. On a same center basis, rental expenses
increased 4.4% from $54.5 million in 2000 to $57.0 million in 2001, primarily
due to general cost increases along with increased property management costs
in 2001.

     Real estate taxes increased 8.1% from $26.6 million in 2000 to $28.8
million in 2001. On a same center basis, real estate taxes increased 9.3% due
primarily to increased taxes on recently redeveloped properties.




     Depreciation and amortization expenses increased 12.5% from $53.3 million
in 2000 to $59.9 million in 2001 reflecting the impact of recent new
development, tenant work and property redevelopments which were placed in
service during the year.

     In 2001, the Trust incurred interest expense of $87.1 million, of which
$17.8 million was capitalized, as compared to 2000's $79.7 million, of which
$13.3 million was capitalized. The increase in interest expense reflects the
additional debt issued to fund the Trust's acquisitions and capital
improvement programs. To mitigate its exposure to changes in variable interest
rates, the Trust has entered into interest rate swaps on its $125 million term
loan which locks the LIBOR interest rate on this loan at 5.27%. The current
interest rate on the term loan is LIBOR plus 95 basis points, thus fixing the
interest rate at 6.22%. The weighted average interest rate was 7.6% in 2001
compared with 7.9% in 2000. The ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges
and preferred dividends was 1.33x in 2001 and 1.40x in 2000. The ratio of
earnings to fixed charges was 1.50x both in 2001 and 2000. The ratio of funds
from operations to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends was 1.9x in
2001 and 2.0x in 2000.

     Administrative expenses increased from $13.3 million in 2000 to $14.3
million in 2001 due to increased personnel costs, legal and accounting fees.
Administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue remained constant in 2001
and 2000 at 4.8%.

     Investors' share of operations represents the minority interest in the
income of certain properties. The overall $1.3 million decrease from $6.5
million in 2000 to $5.2 million in 2001 is due to the Trust's buy-out of the
minority partners' in nine street retail buildings in southern California,
thereby increasing the Trust's ownership to 100%.

     On April 27, 2001, the Trust sold the Williamsburg Shopping Center in
Williamsburg, Virginia for $16.7 million, resulting in a gain of $7.9 million.
On December 18, 2001 the Trust sold the street retail property located at 101
E. Oak Street in Chicago, Illinois for $6.1 million, resulting in a gain of
$1.8 million. On December 30, 2001 the Trust exchanged its 90% interest in a
street retail building in Forest Hills, New York to the minority partner in
exchange for the minority partner's 10% interest in three other street retail
buildings in Forest Hills, New York resulting in an accounting loss of
approximately $500,000. On June 30, 2000, the Trust sold the 296,000 square foot
Peninsula Shopping Center located in Palos Verdes, California for $48.6 million
resulting in a gain of $3.7 million.

     As a result of the foregoing items, net income before gain on the sale of
real estate increased from $56.8 million in 2000 to $59.6 million in 2001,
while net income increased from $60.5 million in 2000 to $68.8 million in 2001
and net income available for common shareholders increased from $52.6 million
to $59.7 million.

     Growth in net income in 2002 will continue to be primarily dependent on
contributions from the core portfolio. Growth of net




income from the core portfolio is, in part, dependent on the financial health of
the Trust's tenants and on controlling expenses, some of which are beyond the
complete control of the Trust, such as snow removal, insurance and real estate
tax assessments and the general economy. The current weakening of the retail and
overall economic environment could adversely impact the Trust by increasing
vacancies and decreasing rents. In past weak retail and real estate
environments, however, the Trust has been able to replace weak and bankrupt
tenants with stronger tenants; management believes that due to the quality of
the Trust's properties there will continue to be demand for its space. Growth in
the core portfolio, however, will be offset by expenses at Santana Row. Leasing,
marketing and pre-opening expenses at Santana Row prior to its scheduled opening
in fall 2002 and additional depreciation and interest expense as the project is
phased into operations will have a dilutive effect on 2002 earnings.

     Growth in net income is also dependent on the amount of leverage and
interest rates. The Trust's leverage is increasing as it finances its
development projects. In addition, to the extent variable-rate debt is
unhedged, the Trust will continue to have exposure to changes in market
interest rates. If interest rates increase, net income and funds from
operations, as well as the ultimate cost of the Trust's development projects,
will be negatively impacted. Net income available for common shareholders and
funds from operations will also be reduced by the issuance of the 8.5% Series
B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares.

2000 vs. 1999
- -------------

     Rental income, which consists of minimum rent, percentage rent and cost
recoveries, increased 6.0 % from $245.8 million in 1999 to $260.7 million in
2000. On a same center basis, rental income increased 7.7%, due primarily to
the favorable impact of redeveloped and retenanted centers, as well as
increases associated with lease rollovers. Same center basis, in 2000,
excludes properties acquired in 2000 and 1999, Peninsula Shopping Center in
Palos Verdes, California and Northeast Plaza in Atlanta, Georgia which were
sold on June 30, 2000 and October 18, 1999, respectively and properties
developed in 2000 and 1999, including Bethesda Row Phase 3 in Bethesda,
Maryland, Old Town in Los Gatos, California and Town & Country Shopping Center
in San Jose, California which was vacated as the Santana Row development began.

     Other property income includes items which, although recurring, tend to
fluctuate more than rental income from period to period, such as utility
reimbursements, telephone income, merchant association dues, late fees, lease
termination fees and temporary tenant income. Other property income remained
constant in 2000 compared to 1999. On a same center basis, other property
income decreased $473,000 in 2000 compared to 1999, due mostly to decreases in
lease termination fees.

     Rental expenses increased 4.8% from $53.7 million in 1999 to $56.3
million in 2000. Rental expense as a percentage of property income, rental
income plus other property income, remained constant in both periods at 21%.
On a same center basis, rental




expenses increased 6.0% from $49.6 million in 1999 to $52.6 million in 2000,
primarily due to general cost increases along with increased snow removal and
utility costs in 2000.

     Real estate taxes increased 6.4% from $25.0 million in 1999 to $26.6
million in 2000. On a same center basis, real estate taxes increased 5.9% due
primarily to increased taxes on recently redeveloped properties.

     Depreciation and amortization expenses increased 6.5% from $50.0 million
in 1999 to $53.3 million in 2000 reflecting the impact of recent tenant work
and property improvements.

     In 2000, the Trust incurred interest expense of $79.7 million, of which
$13.3 million was capitalized, as compared to 1999's $68.4 million, of which
$6.9 million was capitalized. The increase in interest expense reflects the
additional debt issued to fund the Trust's share repurchase and capital
improvement programs and increased borrowing costs. The weighted average
interest rate was 7.9% in 2000 compared with 7.6% in 1999. The ratio of
earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends was 1.40x in 2000
and 1.52x in 1999. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 1.50x in 2000
and 1.70x in 1999. The ratio of funds from operations to combined fixed
charges and preferred dividends was 2.0x in 2000 and 2.2x in 1999.

     Administrative expenses decreased from $15.1 million in 1999 to $13.3
million in 2000. In 1999 the Trust incurred expenses of approximately $2.8
million related to a terminated merger transaction. The decrease in these
costs was offset by increased personnel costs and several key new hires. The
tight labor market in the Trust's operating regions resulted in higher
compensation costs both to existing and new employees.

     Investors' share of operations represents the minority interest in the
income of certain properties. The majority of the $2.6 million increase from
$3.9 million in 1999 to $6.5 million in 2000 is due to the allocation of
operating losses to minority owners in 1999 and 1998 in accordance with the
respective partnership agreements. The remainder of the increase represents
the minority partners' share of increased earnings in certain shopping center
and street retail assets.

     On June 30, 2000, the Trust sold the 296,000 square foot Peninsula
Shopping Center located in Palos Verdes, California for $48.6 million
resulting in a gain of $3.7 million. During the second quarter of 1999, the
Trust recorded a $7.1 million charge, representing the estimated loss on a
potential sale of certain assets, principally Northeast Plaza in Atlanta,
Georgia, thereby valuing the assets at their estimated fair value less
estimated costs to sell. On October 18, 1999, the Trust sold Northeast Plaza
for $19.6 million, realizing a loss of $6.3 million.

     As a result of the foregoing items, net income before gain (loss) on the
sale of real estate increased from $55.5 million in 1999 to $56.8 million in
2000, while net income increased from $48.4 million in 1999 to $60.5 million
in 2000 and net income available for common shareholders increased from $40.5
million to




$52.6 million.

Segment Results
- ---------------

     The Trust's operating structure is organized on an asset management model,
where small focused teams are responsible for a portfolio of assets. The Trust
has divided its portfolio of properties into three geographic operating
regions: Northeast, Mid-Atlantic and West. Each region is operated under the
direction of a chief operating officer, with dedicated leasing, property
management and financial staff and operates largely autonomously with respect
to day to day operating decisions. Incentive compensation, throughout the
regional teams, is tied to the net operating income of the respective
portfolios.

Historical operating results for the three regions are as follows (in
thousands):

                                        2001          2000          1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rental Income
          Northeast                 $120,313      $113,078      $102,452
       Mid-Atlantic                  124,765       114,371       111,624
               West                   34,857        33,235        31,757
                                    --------      --------      --------
                  Total             $279,935      $260,684      $245,833
                                    ========      ========      ========

Net Operating Income
          Northeast                  $86,512       $79,685       $74,276
       Mid-Atlantic                   92,086        84,346        81,425
               West                   23,061        24,818        22,665
                                    --------      --------      --------
                  Total             $201,659      $188,849      $178,366
                                    ========      ========      ========

The Northeast

     The Northeast region is comprised of 52 assets, extending from suburban
Philadelphia north to New York and its suburbs into New England and west to
Illinois and Michigan. A significant portion of this portfolio has been held by
the Trust for many years although acquisitions, redevelopment and retenanting
remain major components to the current and future performance of the region.
Several redevelopment projects were completed in 2000 and 2001, which enhanced
revenues and net operating income in 2001.

     When comparing 2001 with 2000, rental income, on an overall and same
center basis, increased 6.4% from $113.1 million in 2000 to $120.3 million in
2001, primarily due to increases at recently redeveloped and retenanted
shopping centers and street retail properties, such as Greenlawn, Blue Star,
Brunswick, Ellisburg, Fresh Meadows and Austin Street.




     Net operating income increased 8.6% from $79.7 million in 2000 to $86.5
million in 2001, primarily due to increases at the recently redeveloped and
retenanted shopping centers and street retail properties, as well as, increased
lease termination fees of $1.0 million in 2001 over 2000's $265,000.

     When comparing 2000 with 1999, rental income increased 10% from $102.5
million in 1999 to $113.1 million in 2000. Excluding Greenlawn Plaza in
Greenlawn, New York which was acquired on January 5, 2000, on a same center
basis, rental income also increased 10%, primarily due to increases at the
recently redeveloped and retenanted shopping centers such as, Bala Cynwyd,
Lawrence Park, Gratiot, Langhorne Square, and Wynnewood.

     Net operating income increased 7% from $74.3 million in 1999 to $79.7
million in 2000. Excluding Greenlawn Plaza in Greenlawn, New York which was
acquired on January 5, 2000, on a same center basis, net operating income also
increased 7%, primarily due to increases at the recently redeveloped and
retenanted Bala Cynwyd, Lawrence Park, Gratiot, Langhorne Square, and Wynnewood
shopping centers.

The Mid-Atlantic

     The Mid-Atlantic region is comprised of 32 assets, including Pentagon Row,
the final phase of which is currently under development, extending from
Baltimore south to metropolitan Washington, D.C. and further south through
Virginia and North Carolina into Florida. As with the Northeast region, a
significant portion of this portfolio has been held by the Trust for many years
although acquisitions, new development, redevelopment and retenanting remain
major components to its current and future performance.

     When comparing 2001 with 2000, rental income increased 9.1% from $114.4
million in 2000 to $124.8 million in 2001 reflecting the contribution from the
recently completed Woodmont East project in Bethesda, Maryland, the rental
income generated from the first three buildings at the Pentagon Row project in
Arlington, Virginia and the September 21, 2001 acquisition of Friendship Center
in Washington, D.C. On a same center basis, which excludes Woodmont East,
Pentagon Row, Friendship Center and Williamsburg Shopping Center, which was
sold on April 27, 2001, rental income increased 4.3% from $112.4 million in
2000 to $117.2 million in 2001.

     Net operating income increased 9.2% from $84.3 million in 2000 to $92.1
million in 2001. On a same center basis as defined above, net operating income
increased 5.2% from $82.9 million in 2000 to $87.1 million in 2001 due
primarily to successful anchor, small shop and office leasing.

     When comparing 2000 with 1999, rental income increased 3% from $111.6
million in 1999 to $114.4 million in 2000. On a same center basis, excluding
Northeast Plaza in Atlanta, Georgia which was sold in 1999 and the recently
developed Phase 3 of the Bethesda Row project in Bethesda, Maryland, rental
income increased 4%, due in part to new anchor leases at several centers. Net
operating income increased 4% from $81.4 million in 1999 to $84.3 million in
2000. On




a same center basis as above, net operating income increased 5%, due primarily
to new anchor leases and lease termination fees.

The West

     The West region is comprised of 37 assets, including Santana Row which is
currently under development, extending from Texas to the West Coast. Unlike the
Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions, this portfolio is relatively new to the
Trust and is part of a deliberate expansion west over the past several years.
This region is the fastest growing at the Trust and includes the Trust's
largest new development project, Santana Row in San Jose, California. Several
redevelopment projects were completed in 2000 and 2001 which contributed to
revenues and net operating income in 2001 and will for future years as well.

     When comparing 2001 with 2000, on a same center basis, which excludes
properties acquired and sold in 2001 and 2000 and Santana Row, which is
currently under development, rental income increased 14.9% from $28.9 million
in 2000 to $33.2 million in 2001, due primarily to increases from recently
redeveloped and retenanted properties in Los Angeles and San Francisco,
California. On an overall basis, which includes the impact of the sale of
Peninsula Shopping Center on June 30, 2000, rental income increased 4.9% from
$33.2 million in 2000 to $34.9 million in 2001.

     On a same center basis as defined above, net operating income increased
10.9% from $22.0 million in 2000 to $24.4 million in 2001, primarily due to the
recently redeveloped and retenanted properties in Los Angeles and San
Francisco, California. Overall net operating income decreased 7.1% from $24.8
million in 2000 to $23.1 million in 2001, again reflecting the sale of
Peninsula Shopping Center and the marketing and leasing costs associated with
the Santana Row development.

     When comparing 2000 with 1999 on a same center basis, which excludes newly
developed properties, Santana Row, which is currently under development, and
properties sold and acquired since January 1, 1999, rental income increased 20%
from $19.7 million in 1999 to $23.5 million in 2000, due primarily to recently
redeveloped and retenanted properties in the Los Angeles and San Francisco,
California areas. On an overall basis, which includes the impact of the sale of
Peninsula Shopping Center on June 30, 2000 and the temporary reduction in
earnings caused by the demolition of the old Town & Country Shopping Center to
make way for the new Santana Row development, rental income increased 5% from
$31.8 million in 1999 to $33.2 million in 2000.

     On the same center basis as defined above, net operating income increased
25% from $14.2 million in 1999 to $17.8 million in 2000, due to increases from
the recently redeveloped and retenanted properties in the Los Angeles and San
Francisco, California areas. Overall net operating income increased 10% from
$22.7 million in 1999 to $24.8 million in 2000, again reflecting the sale of
Peninsula Shopping Center and the temporary reduction in earnings caused by the
Santana Row development.




Funds from Operations
- ---------------------

     The Trust has historically reported its funds from operations in addition
to its net income and net cash provided by operating activities. Funds from
operations is a supplemental measure of real estate companies' operating
performance. As of January 1, 2000, the National Association of Real Estate
Investment Trusts (NAREIT) defines funds from operations as follows: income
available for common shareholders before depreciation and amortization of real
estate assets and before extraordinary items less gains (losses) on sale of
real estate. Prior to January 1, 2000, funds from operations also excluded
significant nonrecurring events. Funds from operations does not replace net
income as a measure of performance or net cash provided by operating activities
as a measure of liquidity. Rather, funds from operations has been adopted by
real estate investment trusts to provide a consistent measure of operating
performance in the industry. Nevertheless, funds from operations, as presented
by the Trust, may not be comparable to funds from operations as presented by
other real estate investment trusts.

     The reconciliation of net income to funds from operations is as
follows (in thousands):

                                                    Year ended December 31,
                                                  2001        2000        1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net income available for common
shareholders                                   $59,722     $52,573     $40,493

Depreciation and amortization of real
estate assets                                   54,350      48,456      45,388

Amortization of initial direct costs of
leases                                           4,161       3,514       3,033

Income attributable to operating
partnership units                                1,384       1,311         831

(Gain) loss on sale of
real estate                                    (9,185)     (3,681)       7,050
                                              --------    --------     -------
Funds from operations for common
shareholders                                  $110,432    $102,173     $96,795
                                              ========    ========     =======




Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

     The Trust's primary financial market risk is the fluctuation in interest
rates. At December 31, 2001, the Trust had $97.0 million of variable rate debt,
not including $62.0 million in variable rate construction loans of which the
interest is capitalized to the development project. Based upon this balance of
variable operating debt, if interest rates increased 1%, the Trust's earnings
and cash flows would decrease by approximately $1.0 million. If interest rates
decreased 1%, the Trust's earnings and cash flows would increase by
approximately $1.0 million. The Trust believes that the change in the fair
value of its financial instruments resulting from a forseeable fluctuation in
interest rates would be immaterial to its total assets and total liabilities.

Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
- --------------------------------------------------------

     Included in Item 14.

Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial Disclosure.
- ---------------------

     N/A




                                    Part III
                                    --------

Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
            ---------------------------------------------------
    (a)     The table identifying the Trust's Trustees under the caption
"Election of Trustees" of the 2002 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

    (b)     The information required by this item is included in this report at
Item 1 under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant".

Item 11.    Executive Compensation.
- --------    -----------------------

     The sections entitled "Summary Compensation Table" and "Aggregated Option
Exercises in 2001 and December 31, 2001 Option Values" of the 2002 Proxy
Statement are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
- --------    ---------------------------------------------------------------

     The sections entitled "Ownership of Shares by Certain Beneficial Owners"
and "Ownership of Shares by Trustees and Officers" of the 2002 Proxy Statement
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
- --------    -----------------------------------------------

     The section entitled "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" of
the 2002 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.




                                    Part IV
                                    -------

Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement
- --------    -----------------------------
            Schedules, and Reports on
            -------------------------
            Form 8-K
            --------

(a)      1. Financial Statements
            --------------------

         Report of Independent
         Public Accountants                                      F-1

         Consolidated Balance Sheets-
         December 31, 2001 and 2000                              F-2

         Consolidated Statements of
         Operations - years ended
         December 31, 2001, 2000
         and 1999                                                F-3

         Consolidated Statements of Common
         Shareholders' Equity - years
         ended December 31, 2001, 2000
         and 1999                                                F-4

         Consolidated Statements of
         Cash Flows - years ended
         December 31, 2001, 2000 and
         1999                                                    F-5

         Notes to Consolidated
         Financial Statements
         (Including Selected Quarterly
         Data)                                             F-6 - F28

         2. Financial Statement Schedules
            -----------------------------

         Schedule III - Summary of Real Estate
         and Accumulated Depreciation..................... F29 - F32

         Schedule IV - Mortgage Loans on Real
         Estate .......................................... F33 - F34




(a)  3.     Exhibits

     (3)    (i)   Declaration of Trust of Federal Realty Investment
            Trust dated May 5, 1999 filed with the Commission on May  25, 1999
            as an exhibit to the Trust's Current Report on Form 8-K is
            incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (ii)  Bylaws of the Trust dated May 5, 1999 filed with the
            Commission on May 25, 1999 as an exhibit to the Trust's Current
            Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

     (4)    (i)   A description of a Common Share of Beneficial Interest
            certificate filed with the Commission as a portion of Exhibit 4 to
            the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 1999 is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (ii)  A description of a 7.95% Series A Cumulative Redeemable
            Preferred Share certificate filed with the Commission as a portion
            of Exhibit 4 to the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1999 is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (iii) Statement of Designation for Shares, filed on Form 8-K with
            the Commission on October 3, 1997, is incorporated herein by
            reference thereto.

            (iv)  The 5 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Debenture due 2002 as
            described in Amendment No. 1 to Form S-3 (File No. 33-15264), filed
            with the Commission on August 4, 1987 is incorporated herein by
            reference thereto.

            (v)   Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated March 11, 1999,
            between the Trust and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, filed
            as an exhibit to the Trust's Form 8-A/A filed with the Commission on
            March 11, 1999, is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (vi)  Indenture dated December 13, 1993, related to the Trust's
            7.48% Debentures due August 15, 2026; 8 7/8% Senior Notes due
            January 15, 2000; 8% Notes due April 21, 2002; 6 5/8% Notes due
            2005; 6.82% Medium Term Notes due August 1, 2027; 6.74% Medium Term
            Notes due March 10, 2004; and 6.99% Medium Term Notes due March 10,
            2006, filed with the commission on December 13, 1993 as exhibit 4(a)
            to the Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-3, (File No.
            33-51029) and amended on Form S-3 (File No. 33-63687), effective
            December 4, 1995 is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (vii) Indenture dated September 1, 1998 related to the Trust's
            8.75% Notes due December 1, 2009 filed as exhibit 4(a) to the
            Trust's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-63619)
            is incorporated herein by reference thereto.




            (viii) A description of a 8.5% Series B Cumulative Redeemable
            Preferred Share certificate filed with the commission on November
            26, 2001 as a portion of Exhibit 4 to the Trust's Form 8-A is
            incorporated herein by reference thereto.

     (10)   (i)    The Trust's 1983 Stock Option Plan adopted May 12, 1983,
            filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10 (vi) to the Trust's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983, is
            incorporated herein by reference.

            (ii) * Deferred Compensation Agreement with Steven J. Guttman
            dated December 13, 1978, filed with the Commission as Exhibit 10
            (iv) to the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1980 is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (iii)  The Trust's 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, adopted on
            September 13, 1985, filed with the Commission as a portion of
            Exhibit 10 to the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
            ended December 31, 1985 is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (iv)   The 1991 Share Purchase Plan, dated January 31, 1991, filed
            with the Commission as a portion of Exhibit 10 to the Trust's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 is
            incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (v)  * Employment and Relocation Agreement between the Trust and
            Ron D. Kaplan, dated September 30, 1992, filed as an exhibit to the
            Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
            31, 1992 is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (vi)   Amendment dated October 1, 1992, to Voting Trust Agreement
            dated as of March 3, 1989 by and between I. Wolford Berman and
            Dennis L. Berman filed as an exhibit to the Trust's Annual Report on
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 is incorporated
            herein by reference thereto.

            (vii)  Federal Realty Investment Trust Amended and Restated 1993
            Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended on October 6, 1997 and further
            amended on May 6, 1998 , filed with the Commission as portions of
            Item 10 to the Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
            December 31, 1998, is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

     The following documents, filed with the Commission as portions of Item 6
to the Trust's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September
30, 1993 are incorporated herein by reference thereto:

            (viii) Fiscal Agency Agreement dated as of October 28, 1993 between
            Federal Realty Investment Trust and Citibank, N.A.




            (ix) * Other Share Award and Purchase Note between Federal Realty
            Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan, dated January 1, 1994, filed
            with the Commission as a portion of Item 6 to the Trust's Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1994 is
            incorporated herein by reference thereto.

            (x)    Amended and Restated 1983 Stock Option Plan of Federal Realty
            Investment Trust and 1985 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan of Federal
            Realty Investment Trust, filed with the Commission on August 17,
            1994 on Form S-8, (File No. 33-55111) is incorporated herein by
            reference thereto.

            (xi)   Form of Severance Agreement between Federal Realty Investment
            Trust and Certain of its Officers dated December 31, 1994, filed
            with the Commission as a portion of Exhibit 10 to the Trust's Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, is
            incorporated herein by reference thereto.

     The following filed with the Commission as portions of Exhibit 10 to the
Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, are
incorporated herein by reference thereto:

            (xii)     Credit Agreement Dated as of December 19, 1997 by and
            among Federal Realty Investment Trust, as Borrower, The Financial
            Institutions Party Thereto and Their Assignees Under Section
            13.5.(a), as Lenders, Corestates Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent,
            First Union National Bank, as Administrative Agent and as Arranger,
            and Wells Fargo Bank, as Documentation Agent and as Co-Arranger.

            (xiii) *  Performance Share Award Agreement between Federal Realty
            Investment Trust and Steven J. Guttman, as of January 1, 1998.

            (xiv)  *  Form of Amended and Restated Restricted Share Award
            Agreements between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Steven
            J. Guttman for the years 1998 through 2002.

            (xv)   *  Performance Share Award Agreements between Federal Realty
            Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan, as of January 1, 1998.

            (xvi)  *  Restricted Share Award Agreements between Federal Realty
            Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan, as of January 1, 1998.

            (xvii) *  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between the
            Trust and Steven J. Guttman as of March 6, 1998.

            (xviii) * Amended and Restated Executive Agreement between the
            Trust and Steven J. Guttman as of March 6, 1998.




             (xix) *  Executive Agreement between the Trust and Ron D. Kaplan
             as of March 6, 1998.

             (xx)  *  Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between the
             Trust and Ron D. Kaplan as of March 6, 1998.

     The following filed with the Commission as portions of Exhibit 10 to the
Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998, is
incorporated herein by reference thereto:

             (xxi)    Term Loan Agreement, dated as of December 22, 1998 by and
             among Federal Realty Investment Trust, as Borrower, the Financial
             Institutions Party Thereto and Their Assignees Under Section
             13.5.(d), as Lenders,Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft, New York
             Branch as Syndication Agent, PNC, National Association, as
             Administrative Agent and Fleet National Bank, as documentation
             agent.

     The following filed with the Commission as portions of Exhibit 10 to the
Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, is
incorporated herein by reference thereto:

             (xxii) *   Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between the
             Trust and Nancy J. Herman as of December 27, 1999.

             (xxiii) *  Performance Share Award Agreement dated as of February
             9, 2000 between the Trust and Donald C. Wood.

             (xxiv) *   Restricted Share Award Agreement dated as of February
             9, 2000 between the Trust and Donald C. Wood.

             (xxv)  *   Amendment to Performance Share Award Agreement dated as
             of February 25, 2000 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and
             Steven J. Guttman.

             (xxvi) *   Amendments to Performance Share Award Agreements dated
             as of February 25, 2000 between Federal Realty Investment Trust
             and Ron D. Kaplan.

             (xxvii) *  Severance Agreement between Federal Realty Investment
             Trust and Donald C. Wood dated February 22, 1999.

             (xxviii) * Executive Agreement between Federal Realty Investment
             Trust and Donald C. Wood dated February 22, 1999.

     The following filed with the Commission as portions of Exhibit 10 to the
Trust's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, is
incorporated herein by reference thereto:

             (xxix)  *  Amendment to Restricted Share Award Agreement dated
             December 8, 2000 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Ron
             D. Kaplan.




             (xxx)  *   Amendment to Restricted Share Award Agreement dated
             December 8, 2000 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Ron
             D. Kaplan.

             (xxxi)  *  Amendment to Restricted Share Award Agreement dated
             December 8, 2000 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Don
             C. Wood.

             (xxxii) *  Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement dated May 20,
             1998 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and The Ronald D.
             Kaplan Family Trust.

             (xxxiii) * Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement dated June 7,
             1998 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and The Guttman
             Family 1998 Trust.

             (xxxiv) *  Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement dated August 12,
             1998 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Donald C. Wood.

             (xxxv)  *  Split Dollar Life Insurance Agreement dated November 2,
             2000 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and The Nancy J.
             Herman Insurance Trust.

     The following documents, filed with the commission as portions of Item 6
to the Trust's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2001 are incorporated herein by reference hereto:

             (xxxvi)    Building Loan Agreement among FRIT San Jose Town and
             Country Village LLC, San Jose Residential, Inc. and Street
             Retail, Inc. jointly and severally as Borrower, Commerzbank AG,
             New York Branch, Fleet National Bank, Bayerische Hypo-Und
             Vereinsbank AG, New York Branch and Other Lenders named herein.

     The following are filed as exhibits hereto:

     (10)    (xxxvii)  *  Restricted Share Agreement dated February 15, 2000
             between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Jeffrey S. Berkes.

             (xxxviii) *  Severance Agreement between Federal Realty Investment
             Trust and Jeffrey S. Berkes dated March 1, 2000.

             (xxxix)  *  Termination letter dated March 1, 2002 between Federal
             Realty Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan.

             (xl)  *  Consulting Agreement dated March 1, 2002 between Federal
             Realty Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan.

             (xli)  *  Full Recourse Secured Promissory Note dated March 14,
             2002 between Federal Realty Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan.

             (xlii)  *   Share Pledge Agreement dated March 14, 2002 between
             Federal Realty Investment Trust and Ron D. Kaplan.

     (21)    Subsidiaries of the registrant...................
             Filed as an exhibit hereto.

     (23)    Consent of Arthur Andersen.......................

     (99)    Letter concerning Arthur Andersen's
             representation to the Trust in
             accordance with Temporary Note 3T
             to Article 3 of Regulation S-X...................






(b)  Reports on Form 8-K Filed during the Last Quarter
     -------------------------------------------------

            A Form 8-K, dated November 1, 2001, was filed in response
to Item 5, amended by Form 8-K/A dated December 6, 2001.
            A Form 8-K, dated November 19, 2001 was filed in response
to Item 5, amended by Form 8-K/A dated November 29, 2001 .

    ___________

*  Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed under item 14
(c) of Form 10-K.




                                    SIGNATURES
                                    ----------

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                              FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST

Date:       March 22, 2202                          By: Steven J. Guttman
                                                        -----------------
                                                        Steven J. Guttman
                                                        Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signatures               Title                          Date
- ----------               -----                          ----

                         Chairman of the Board
                         and Chief Executive
Steven J. Guttman        Officer                        March 22, 2202
- ----------------------                                  --------------
Steven J. Guttman

                         President and
Donald C. Wood           Chief Operating Officer        March 22, 2202
- ----------------------                                  --------------
Donald C. Wood

                         Senior Vice-President,
                         Chief Financial Officer
                         And Treasurer (Chief
Larry E. Finger          Accounting Officer)            March 22, 2202
- ----------------------                                  --------------
Larry E. Finger

Dennis L. Berman         Trustee                        March 22, 2202
- ----------------------                                  --------------
Dennis L. Berman

Kenneth D. Brody         Trustee                        March 22, 2202
- ----------------                                        --------------
Kenneth D. Brody

Kristin Gamble           Trustee                        March 22, 2202
- ----------------------                                  --------------
Kristin Gamble

Walter F. Loeb           Trustee                        March 22, 2202
- ----------------------                                  --------------
Walter F. Loeb

Mark S. Ordan            Trustee                        March 22, 2202
- ----------------------                                  --------------
Mark S. Ordan

















                              FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                       AND
                                   SCHEDULES



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Trustees and Shareholders of
Federal Realty Investment Trust:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Federal Realty
Investment Trust (a Maryland real estate investment trust) and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2001 and 2000 and the related consolidated statements of
operations, common shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three year period ended December 31, 2001. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Trust's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Federal Realty
Investment Trust and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three year period ended December 31, 2001 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

Our audit was made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. The financial statement
schedules included on pages F-29 through F-34 of the Form 10-K are presented
for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules
and are not a required part of the basic consolidated financial statements.
These schedules have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in our
audit of the basic consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, are
fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole.

Arthur Andersen LLP
Vienna, Virginia
February 11, 2002

                                      F1



Federal Realty Investment Trust

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.

                                      F2



Federal Realty Investment Trust

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.

                                      F3


Federal Realty Investment Trust

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.

                                      F4



Federal Realty Investment Trust

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated statements.

                                      F5



Federal Realty Investment Trust
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Federal Realty Investment Trust (the "Trust") is a full-service real
estate company, which owns and operates community and neighborhood shopping
centers and owns and develops main street retail properties, retail buildings
and mixed-use properties located in densely developed urban and suburban areas.

     The Trust operates in a manner intended to enable it to qualify as a real
estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes. A trust which
distributes at least 90% of its real estate investment trust taxable income to
its shareholders each year and which meets certain other conditions will not be
taxed on that portion of its taxable income which is distributed to its
shareholders. Therefore, no provision for Federal income taxes is required.

     The consolidated financial statements of the Trust include the accounts of
the Trust, its wholly owned corporate subsidiaries, several corporations where
the Trust has a majority ownership, numerous partnerships and a joint venture,
all of which it controls. The equity interests of other investors are reflected
as investors' interest in consolidated assets. All significant intercompany
transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation.

Revenue Recognition. Leases with tenants are classified as operating leases.
Minimum rents are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the
related leases net of valuation adjustments based on management's assessment of
credit, collection and other business risk. Percentage rents, which represent
additional rents based on gross tenant sales, are recognized at the end of the
lease year or other period in which tenant sales' thresholds have been reached
and the percentage rents are due. Real estate tax and other cost reimbursements
are recognized on an accrual basis over the periods in which the expenditures
occurred.

Real Estate. Land, buildings and real estate under development are recorded at
cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method. Estimated useful
lives range from three to 25 years on apartment buildings and improvements, and
from three to 50 years on retail properties and improvements. Maintenance and
repair costs are charged to operations as incurred. Tenant work and other major
improvements are capitalized and depreciated over the life of the lease or their
estimated useful life, respectively. In accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 66, "Accounting for Sales of Real Estate",
sales are recognized at closing only when sufficient down payments have been
obtained, possession and other attributes of ownership have been transferred to
the buyer and the Trust has no significant continuing involvement. The gain or
loss resulting from the sale of properties is included in net income at the time
of sale. Upon termination of a lease, undepreciated tenant improvement costs are
charged to operations if the assets

                                      F6



are replaced and the asset and the corresponding accumulated depreciation are
retired.

     The Trust evaluates the carrying value of its long-lived assets in
accordance with SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of". In cases where particular
assets are being held for sale, impairment is based on whether the fair value
(estimated sales price less costs of disposal) of each individual property to be
sold is less than the net book value. Otherwise, impairment is based on whether
it is probable that undiscounted future cash flows from each property will be
less than its net book value. If a property is impaired, its basis is adjusted
to its fair market value.

     In August 2001 the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" (effective for the Trust on
January 1, 2002). SFAS No. 144 requires that one accounting model be used for
long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale, whether previously held and used
or newly-acquired, and broadens the presentation of discontinued operations to
include more disposal transactions.

     The Trust, when applicable as lessee, classifies its leases of land and
buildings as operating or capital leases in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases".

     Certain external and internal costs directly related to the development,
redevelopment and leasing of real estate including applicable salaries and
their related direct costs are capitalized. The capitalized costs associated
with developments, redevelopments and leasing are depreciated or amortized over
the life of the improvement and lease, respectively. Unamortized leasing costs
are charged to operations if the applicable tenant vacates before the
expiration of their lease.

     Interest costs on developments and major redevelopments are capitalized as
part of the development and redevelopment. Capitalization of interest commences
when development activities and expenditures begin and end upon completion,
i.e. when the asset is ready for its intended use. Generally rental property is
considered substantially complete and ready for its intended use upon
completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the
completion of major construction activity.

Debt Issue Costs. Costs related to the issuance of debt instruments are
capitalized and are amortized as interest expense over the life of the related
issue using the effective interest method. Upon conversion or in the event of
redemption, applicable unamortized costs are charged to shareholders' equity or
to operations, respectively.

Cash and Cash Equivalents. The Trust defines cash as cash on hand, demand
deposits with financial institutions and short term liquid investments with an
initial maturity under three months. Cash balances in individual banks may
exceed insurable amounts from time to time.

Risk Management. Upon adoption of SFAS No. 133 "Accounting for

                                      F7



Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" on January 1, 2001, the Trust
had no derivatives and thus there was no transition adjustment upon adoption.
SFAS No. 133 requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either assets
or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those
instruments at fair value. If certain conditions are met, a derivative may be
specifically designated as a hedge of the exposure to certain risks. The Trust
enters into derivative contracts, which qualify as cash flow hedges, in order
to manage interest rate risk. Derivatives are not purchased for speculation.
During 2001, to hedge its exposure to interest rates on its $125 million term
loan, the Trust entered into interest rate swaps, which fixed the LIBOR
interest rate on the term loan at 5.27%. The current interest rate on the term
loan is LIBOR plus 95 basis points, thus fixing the interest rate at 6.22% on
notional amounts totaling $125 million. The Trust is exposed to credit loss in
the event of non-performance by the counterparties to the interest rate
protection agreement should interest rates exceed the cap. However, management
does not anticipate non-performance by the counterparties. The counterparties
have long-term debt ratings of A- or above by S&P and AA2 or above by Moody's.
Although the Trust's cap is not exchange-traded, there are a number of
financial institutions which enter into these types of transactions as part of
their day-to-day activities. The interest rate swaps mature concurrently with
the $125 million term loan on December 19, 2003. The swaps were documented as
cash flow hedges and designated as effective at inception of the swap contract.
Consequently, the unrealized gain or loss upon measuring the swaps at their
fair market value is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income
within stockholders' equity and either a derivative instrument asset or
liability is recorded on the balance sheet. At December 31, 2001, an unrealized
loss of $4,342,000, representing the difference between the current market
value and the 6.22% fixed interest rate on the swap, was recorded in other
comprehensive income with a corresponding derivative liability on the balance
sheet. Interest expense of approximately $2,217,000 will be reclassified from
other comprehensive income into current earnings over the next twelve months to
bring the effective interest rate up to 6.22%. There were no open derivative
contracts at December 31, 2000 or 1999.

Acquisition, Development and Construction Loan Arrangements. The Trust has made
certain mortgage loans that, because of their nature, qualify as loan
receivables. At the time the loans were made the Trust did not intend for the
arrangement to be anything other than a financing and did not contemplate a
real estate investment. Using guidance set forth in the Third Notice to
Practitioners issued by the AICPA in February 1986 entitled "ADC Arrangements"
("the Third Notice"), the Trust evaluates each investment to determine whether
the loan arrangement qualifies under the Third Notice as a loan, joint venture
or real estate investment and the appropriate accounting thereon; such
determination affects the Trust's balance sheet classification of these
investments and the recognition of interest income derived therefrom.
Generally, the Trust receives additional interest on these loans, however the
Trust never receives in excess of 50% of the residual profit in the project (as
defined in the Third Notice) and because the borrower has either a substantial
investment in the project or has guaranteed all or a portion of

                                      F8



the Trust's loan (or a combination thereof) the loans qualify for loan
accounting. The amounts under ADC arrangements at December 31, 2001 and 2000
are $35.6 million and $47.4 million, respectively and interest income
recognized thereon was $4.1 million and $5.0 million, respectively.

Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. These estimates are
prepared using management's best judgment, after considering past and current
events. Actual results could differ from these estimates.

Comprehensive Income. The Trust's interest rate swaps were documented as cash
flow hedges and designated as effective at inception of the swap contract,
therefore, the unrealized gain or loss upon measuring the swaps at their fair
market value is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income within
stockholders' equity. In accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities", investments purchased in connection
with the Trust's nonqualified deferred compensation plan are classified as
available for sale securities and reported at fair value. Unrealized gains or
losses on these investments purchased to match the Trust's obligation to the
participants is also recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. At
December 31, 2001 these investments consisted of mutual funds and are stated at
market value.

                                      F9



Earnings Per Share. The Trust calculates basic and diluted earnings per share
in accordance with SFAS No. 128, "Earnings Per Share". Basic EPS excludes
dilution and is computed by dividing net income available for common
shareholders by the weighted number of common shares outstanding for the
period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if
securities or other contracts to issue common shares were exercised or
converted into common shares and then shared in the earnings of the Trust.

     The following table sets forth the reconciliation between basic and
diluted EPS (in thousands, except per share data):

                                      2001      2000        1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Numerator
- ---------
Net income available for common
  shareholders - basic                $59,722   $52,573    $40,493
Income attributable to
  operating partnership units           1,384     1,311        831
                                      -------   -------    -------
 Net income available for common
  shareholders - diluted              $61,106   $53,884    $41,324
                                      =======   =======    =======

Denominator
- -----------
Denominator for basic EPS-
    weighted average shares            39,164    38,796     39,574
Effect of dilutive securities
  Stock options and awards                197       155        214
  Operating partnership units             905       959        850
                                      -------   -------    -------
Weighted average shares - diluted      40,266    39,910     40,638
                                      =======   =======    =======
Earnings per common share - basic     $  1.52   $  1.36    $  1.02
                                      =======   =======    =======

Earnings per common share - diluted   $  1.52   $  1.35    $  1.02
                                      =======   =======    =======

     Stock options are accounted for in accordance with APB 25, as interpreted,
whereby if options are priced at fair market value or above at the date of
grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

Reclassifications. Certain components of real estate, mortgages and
construction loans payable and notes payable on the December 31, 2000 Balance
Sheet have been reclassified to assure comparability of all periods presented.

                                      F10



NOTE 1: REAL ESTATE AND ENCUMBRANCES

     A summary of the Trust's properties at December 31, 2001 and 2000 is as
follows (in thousands):

                                      Accumulated
                            Cost   depreciation and
2001                                 amortization   Encumbrances
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Retail properties        $1,928,554    $  329,911     $  350,043
Retail properties
  under capital leases      169,072        59,967        100,293
Apartments                    6,678         5,889             --
                         ----------    ----------     ----------
                         $2,104,304    $  395,767     $  450,336
                         ==========    ==========     ==========


Retail properties        $1,633,448    $  276,982     $  218,541
Retail properties
  under capital leases      214,805        68,564        121,611
Apartments                    6,660         5,712             --
                         ----------    ----------     ----------

                         $1,854,913    $  351,258     $  340,152
                         ==========    ==========     ==========

     During 2001 the Trust expended cash of $61.4 million to acquire real
estate and an additional $199.1 million to improve, redevelop and develop its
existing real estate. Of the $199.1 million spent in 2001 on the Trust's
existing real estate portfolio, approximately $158.0 million was invested in
the Trust's development projects, primarily the projects in Bethesda, Maryland;
San Jose, California; and in Arlington, Virginia. The remaining $41.0 million
of capital expenditures relates to improvements to common areas, tenant work
and various redevelopments, including the office expansion and retenanting of
Willow Lawn Shopping Center, the renovation of Brunswick Shopping Center, the
redevelopment of retail buildings in San Antonio, Texas and the redevelopment
and retenanting of certain of the Trust's California street retail buildings.

     On February 16, 2001 the Trust bought the fee interest underlying the
capital lease obligation of $21.4 million, thereby terminating the capital
lease, on Brick Plaza in Brick, New Jersey for a purchase price of $28 million.
A mortgage note receivable of $3.2 million owed to the Trust by the lessor and
a $3 million security deposit on the capital lease were credited to the
purchase price, resulting in a cash outlay of approximately $21.5 million.

     On March 1, 2001 the limited partners in two partnerships, owning street
retail properties in southern California, exercised their rights under the
partnership agreements and put their interests to the Trust for $18.1 million
plus additional consideration to be determined upon meeting certain leasing
requirements in the future. The Trust paid the initial $18.1 million, $11.4
million in cash at closing, and the $6.7 million

                                      F11



balance in 328,116 common shares issued to the limited partners on June 19,
2001. To date, leasing transactions have resulted in a purchase price
adjustment of $188,000; $160,000 of which was paid by the issuance of 7,120
common shares on December 6, 2001 and the remainder paid in cash. The Trust
estimates that an additional $1.0 to $1.2 million will be owed to the limited
partners upon completion of certain other leasing transactions.

     In connection with the buyout of the minority partner at Santana Row in a
transaction being structured as a tax-free exchange the Trust made an equity
investment of $2.6 million and a loan of $5.9 million to a partnership which
purchased a building for $8.5 million. Upon consummation of the exchange in
January 2002, the Trust received the minority interest in Santana Row in
exchange for its $2.6 million investment in the building. The $5.9 million loan
is due to the Trust on January 12, 2003.

     On April 27, 2001 the Trust sold the Williamsburg Shopping Center in
Williamsburg, Virginia for $16.7 million resulting in a gain of $7.9 million.
The proceeds from the sale were held by a qualified intermediary until the
execution of a tax-free exchange for Friendship Center.

     On September 21, 2001 the Trust purchased Friendship Center, a 119,000
square foot street retail property in Washington, D.C. for $33.4 million. The
purchase was funded from the proceeds from the sale of Williamsburg Shopping
Center and a $17.0 million mortgage loan.

     On December 18, 2001 the Trust sold the street retail property located at
101 E. Oak Street in Chicago, Illinois for $6.1 million resulting in a gain of
$1.8 million. The proceeds from the sale are being held by a qualified
intermediary for purposes of executing a tax-free property exchange.

     On December 30, 2001 the Trust exchanged its 90% interest in a street
retail building in Forest Hills, New York to the minority partner in exchange
for the minority partner's 10% interest in three other street retail buildings
in Forest Hills, New York resulting in an accounting loss of approximately
$500,000.

     The Trust's 120 retail properties at December 31, 2001 are located in 15
states and the District of Columbia. There are approximately 2,100 tenants
providing a wide range of retail products and services. These tenants range
from sole proprietorships to national retailers; no one tenant or corporate
group of tenants accounts for more than 2.7% of revenue.

     Mortgage notes receivable of $35.6 million are due over various terms from
January 2002 to May 2021 and have an average weighted interest rate of 10.0%.
Under the terms of certain of these mortgages, the Trust will receive
additional interest based upon the gross income of the secured properties and,
upon sale of the properties, the Trust will share in the appreciation of the
properties.

     Mortgages and construction loans payable and capital lease obligations are
due in installments over various terms extending to 2016 and 2060,
respectively, with interest rates ranging from 4.1% to 11.25%. Certain of the
capital lease obligations require

                                      F12



additional interest payments based upon property performance. The Trust
refinanced two maturing mortgages totaling $30.5 million during 2001 by placing
new mortgage notes totaling $43.5 million on these properties. In addition the
Trust placed new mortgage loans on two properties, Brick Plaza and Friendship
Center, totaling $50.0 million. There were no maturing mortgages in 2000 or
1999.

     On April 17, 2001 the Trust closed on a $295 million construction loan for
Santana Row in San Jose, California. The loan, which initially bears interest
at LIBOR plus 212.5 basis points, matures April 16, 2004 with two one-year
extension options, subject to obtaining certain operating targets. The interest
rate will decrease to LIBOR plus 187.5 basis points and then to LIBOR plus
162.5 basis points upon the achievement of certain leasing, occupancy and net
operating income hurdles. There is no assurance that these targets and hurdles
will be met. The construction loan requires fees and has various covenants
including the maintenance of a minimum shareholders' equity and a maximum ratio
of debt to gross asset value. The initial funding of the construction loan took
place on August 23, 2001 when the equity and pre-leasing requirements were met.
As of December 31, 2001, $62.0 million was borrowed under the loan. No
principal payments are due until maturity. The property secures the
construction loan facility.

     At December 31, 2001 there was $23.2 million borrowed under the
construction loan for the Trust's Woodmont East development in Bethesda,
Maryland. The loan, which has a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 120 to 150
basis points, depending on occupancy levels, matures August 29, 2002 with two
one-year extension options. No principal payments are due until maturity. The
property secures the construction loan facility.

                                      F13



     Scheduled principal payments on mortgage and construction loan
indebtedness, assuming the option to extend the Woodmont East construction loan
is exercised, as of December 31, 2001 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ending December 31,
2002                                                    $     498
2003                                                       17,709
2004                                                       87,826
2005                                                        2,896
2006                                                        3,227
Thereafter                                                237,887
                                                        ---------
                                                        $ 350,043
                                                        =========

     Future minimum lease payments and their present value for property under
capital leases as of December 31, 2001, are as follows (in thousands):

Year ending December 31,
2002                                                    $   9,394
2003                                                        9,324
2004                                                        9,539
2005                                                        9,539
2006                                                        9,539
Thereafter                                                375,012
                                                        ---------
                                                          422,347
Less amount representing interest                        (322,054)
                                                        ---------
Present value                                           $ 100,293
                                                        =========

Leasing Arrangements
- --------------------

     The Trust's leases with retail property and apartment tenants are
classified as operating leases. Leases on apartments are generally for a period
of one year, whereas retail property leases generally range from three to 10
years (certain leases with anchor tenants may be longer), and usually provide
for contingent rentals based on sales and sharing of certain operating costs.

     The components of rental income are as follows (in thousands):

                                 Year ended December 31,
                            2001            2000          1999
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Retail and mixed-use properties
   Minimum rents          $223,515         $208,474      $197,299
   Cost reimbursements      47,328           43,056        39,574
   Percentage rent           6,107            6,364         6,277
Apartments - rents           2,985            2,790         2,683
                          --------         --------      --------
                          $279,935         $260,684      $245,833
                          ========         ========      ========


                                      F14



The components of rental expense are as follows (in thousands):

                                  Year ended December 31,
                            2001           2000            1999
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

Repairs and maintenance   $17,383          $16,590        $15,347
Management fees and costs  11,995            9,831         10,635
Utilities                   8,129            8,096          7,120
Payroll - properties        4,709            4,510          4,440
Ground rent                 3,698            3,190          2,933
Insurance                   3,150            2,900          2,774
Other operating            14,417           11,163         10,428
                          -------          -------        -------
                          $63,481          $56,280        $53,677
                          =======          =======        =======

     Minimum future retail property rentals on noncancelable operating leases,
before any reserve for uncollectible amounts, on operating properties as of
December 31, 2001 are as follows (in thousands):

Year ending December 31,
2002                                                   $  231,787
2003                                                      221,169
2004                                                      200,241
2005                                                      179,164
2006                                                      153,902
Thereafter                                                898,538
                                                       ----------
                                                       $1,884,801
                                                       ==========

                                      F15



NOTE 2. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
- -------------------------------------------

     The following disclosure of estimated fair value was determined by the
Trust, using available market information and appropriate valuation methods.
Considerable judgment is necessary to develop estimates of fair value. The
estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that
could be realized upon disposition of the financial instruments.

     The Trust estimates the fair value of its financial instruments using the
following methods and assumptions: (1) quoted market prices, when available, are
used to estimate the fair value of investments in marketable debt and equity
securities; (2) quoted market prices are used to estimate the fair value of the
Trust's marketable convertible subordinated debentures; (3) discounted cash flow
analyses are used to estimate the fair value of mortgage notes receivable and
payable, using the Trust's estimate of current interest rates for similar notes;
(4) carrying amounts in the balance sheet approximate fair value for cash,
accounts payable, accrued expenses and short term borrowings. Notes receivable
from officers are excluded from fair value estimation since they have been
issued in connection with employee stock ownership programs.

                        December 31, 2001       December 31, 2000
(in thousands)           Carrying   Fair         Carrying  Fair
                          Value    Value          Value    Value
                      -------------------      ------------------
Cash & equivalents    $ 17,563   $ 17,563      $ 11,357  $ 11,357
Investments              2,739      2,739         2,356     2,356
Mortgage notes
 receivable             35,607     36,427        47,360    48,039
Mortgages and
 construction loans
 and notes payable     524,886    559,179       427,546   427,937
Convertible
 debentures             75,289     70,696        75,289    71,058
Senior notes           410,000    425,970       410,000   411,934

                                      F16



NOTE 3. NOTES PAYABLE
- ---------------------

     The Trust's notes payable consist of the following (in thousands):

                                   2001         2000
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

Revolving credit facilities     $ 44,000      $ 78,000
Term note with banks             125,000       125,000
Other                              5,843         6,005
                                --------      --------

                                $174,843      $209,005
                                ========      ========

     In December 1997 the Trust obtained a five year syndicated revolving
credit facility for $300 million due December 2002. The syndicated facility
requires fees and has various covenants including the maintenance of a minimum
shareholders' equity and a maximum ratio of debt to net worth. In June 2000,
the Trust modified certain covenants and extended the maturity date to December
19, 2003. The current borrowing rate on the syndicated credit facility is LIBOR
plus 80 basis points.

     In December 1998 the Trust obtained a four year loan of $125 million from
five institutional lenders. The loan was originally due December 2002 and was
extended to December 19, 2003 along with the syndicated credit facility. The
loan requires the payment of certain fees and has the same covenants as the
syndicated credit facility. The current borrowing rate on the term loan is
LIBOR plus 95 basis points.

     The maximum amount drawn under these facilities during 2001, 2000 and 1999
was $308.5 million, $343.1 million and $330.0 million, respectively. In 2001,
2000 and 1999 the weighted average interest rate on borrowings was 5.6%, 7.2%
and 5.9%, respectively, and the average amount outstanding was $269.7 million,
$283.2 million and $296.4 million, respectively.

     In connection with the land held for future development in Hillsboro,
Oregon, the Trust issued a $3.4 million note which was originally due June 30,
2001. The note has been extended one year to June 30, 2002. The loan bears
interest at LIBOR plus 125 basis points. The property secures the loan facility.

NOTE 4. 5 1/4% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES
- --------------------------------------------------

     In October 1993, the Trust issued $75.0 million of 5 1/4% convertible
subordinated debentures, realizing cash proceeds of approximately $73.0 million.
The debentures were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and were not
publicly distributed within the United States. The debentures, which mature in
2003, are convertible into shares of beneficial interest at $36 per share. The
debentures are redeemable by the Trust, in whole, at any time after October 28,
1998 at 100% of the principal amount plus accrued

                                      F17



interest

     At December 2001 and 2000 the Trust had outstanding $289,000 of 5 1/4%
convertible subordinated debentures due 2002. The debentures which are
convertible into shares of beneficial interest at $30.625 were not registered
under the Securities Act of 1933 and were not publicly distributed within the
United States.

     There are no significant financial covenants on these debentures. The Trust
is in compliance with the terms and covenants of these borrowings. No principal
is due on these notes prior to maturity.

NOTE 5. SENIOR NOTES AND DEBENTURES
- -----------------------------------

     Unsecured senior notes and debentures at December 31, 2001 and 2000
consist of the following (in thousands):

                                              2001       2000
- -------------------------------------------------------------

8% Notes due April 21, 2002                 $ 25,000  $ 25,000
6.74% Medium-Term Notes due March 10, 2004    39,500    39,500
6.625% Notes due December 1, 2005             40,000    40,000
6.99% Medium-Term Notes due March 10, 2006    40,500    40,500
6.82% Medium-Term Notes due August 1, 2027,
 redeemable at par by holder August 1, 2007   40,000    40,000
7.48% Debentures due August 15, 2026,
 redeemable at par by holder August 15, 2008  50,000    50,000
8.75% Notes due December 1, 2009             175,000   175,000
                                            --------  --------

                                            $410,000  $410,000
                                            ========  ========

     On January 17, 2000 the Trust's $100 million of 8.875% Notes matured and
were paid with borrowings from the Trust's syndicated credit facilities.

     The loan agreements contain various covenants, including limitations on
the amount of debt and minimum debt service coverage ratios. The Trust is in
compliance with all covenants. No principal is due on these notes prior to
maturity.

     In September 1998 the Trust filed a $500 million shelf registration
statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission which allows the issuance
of debt securities, preferred shares and common shares. As of December 31,
2001, $190 million is available under the shelf registration.

     The Trust plans to pay-off the 8% Notes due April 21,2002 through
borrowings from its syndicated credit facility.

NOTE 6. DIVIDENDS
- -----------------

     On November 1, 2001 the Trustees declared a quarterly cash dividend of
$.48 per common share, payable January 15, 2002 to common shareholders of
record January 2, 2002. For the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 $.11 and
$.16, of dividends

                                      F18



paid per common share, respectively, represented a return of capital. There was
no return of capital in 2001.

     On November 1, 2001 the Trustees declared a quarterly cash dividend of
$.49687 per share on its Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares,
payable on January 31, 2002 to shareholders of record on January 15, 2002.

     On January 2, 2002 the Trustees declared a quarterly cash dividend of
$.3778 per share on its Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares,
payable January 31, 2002 to shareholders of record on January 15, 2002.

     For the year ended December 31, 2000, $.04 of dividends paid per common
share and per preferred share represent a capital gain. There were no capital
gains in 2001 or 1999.

NOTE 7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
- -------------------------------------

     Pentagon Row is a mixed-use project with the retail component being
developed by the Trust and the residential component being developed by an
unrelated developer. In October 2000 the general contractor on the project was
replaced by the Trust and the residential developer, because of schedule delays
and other events that caused the Trust and the residential developer to
conclude that the original contractor was either unable or unwilling to comply
with its contractual obligations. The Trust and the residential developer filed
suit against the original contractor to recover damages that are being incurred
as a result of defaults under the contract. Though not quantifiable until the
project is completed, the combined damage claim is estimated to be in excess of
$40.0 million. The original contractor filed a counterclaim against the Trust
and the residential developer for damages of $7 million plus interest,
attorneys' fees and litigation costs. The Trust believes that the counterclaim
is generally without merit and that the outcome of the counterclaim will not
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of
operations or on the project. Work continues under the direction of the new
general contractor. Due to the delay and other costs associated with the change
in general contractor the estimated cost of the project is now $92 million, if
there is no recovery of damages from the original general contractor. The
lawsuit against the original contractor is scheduled for mediation in May 2002,
and, should mediation prove unsuccessful, is scheduled to go to trial in
October 2002.

     In addition, the Trust is involved in various other lawsuits and
environmental matters arising in the normal course of business. Management
believes that such matters will not have a material effect on the financial
condition or results of operations of the Trust.

     Under the terms of the Congressional Plaza partnership agreement, from and
after January 1, 1986 Rockville Plaza Company, an unaffiliated third party, has
the right to require the Trust and the two other minority partners to purchase
from half to all of Rockville Plaza Company's 37.5% interest in Congressional
Plaza at the interest's then-current fair market value. Based on management's
current estimate of fair market value, the Trust's estimated

                                      F19



liability upon exercise of the put option is approximately $27.5 million. In
conjunction with a redevelopment currently taking place at the property, the
Trust has reached an agreement with Rockville Plaza Company to acquire an
additional 7.5% interest in Congressional Plaza in exchange for funding
approximately $7 million of Rockville Plaza Company's share of the
redevelopment cost. The funding will take place through 2002 and the
transaction will be completed in early 2003.

     Under the terms of five other partnership agreements, if certain leasing
and revenue levels are obtained for the properties owned by the partnerships,
the limited partners may require the Trust to purchase their partnership
interests at a formula price based upon net operating income. The purchase
price may be paid in cash or for two of the partnerships, a limited number of
common shares of the Trust at the election of the limited partners. In certain
of the partnerships, if the limited partners do not redeem their interest, the
Trust may choose to purchase the limited partnership interests upon the same
terms.

     Under the terms of other partnership agreements, the partners may redeem
their 904,589 operating units for cash or exchange into the same number of
common shares of the Trust, at the option of the Trust.

     As of December 31, 2001 in connection with renovation and development
projects, the Trust has contractual obligations of approximately $172 million,
including approximately $154 million for Santana Row.

     A subcontractor of the Trust's Santana Row project has entered into a
contract with a wood supply company in which a trustee of the Trust owns an
indirect 9.7% interest. The contract provides for a payment to the company of
approximately $330,000 for wood flooring. The dollar amount of the contract does
not represent a material amount of business to the wood supply company. Terms
of the contract were negotiated at arms-length.

     The centerpiece of Santana Row is a four-star, 214 room boutique hotel. The
Trust has entered into a 99 year ground lease with the hotel requiring minimum
rent of $450,000 per annum with rental increases every five years and percentage
rent on room, parking and other revenues. The Trust has committed to loan $7.2
million to the hotel. The loan bears interest at rates ranging from 12% to 15%
and has a ten year term. During the first five years, interest is payable from
cash flow, if available. If cash flow is not sufficient to pay interest, it will
accrue and bear interest at the same rate as the initial principal. In addition,
the Trust has committed approximately $5.5 million to four restaurant joint
ventures at Santana Row in lieu of tenant allowances. The Trust will participate
in profits, losses and cash flow in accordance with the terms of each individual
venture.

     The Trust is obligated under ground lease agreements on several shopping
centers requiring minimum annual payments as follows (in thousands):

2002                                                     $  3,909
2003                                                        3,910
2004                                                        3,921
2005                                                        3,930
2006                                                        3,977
Thereafter                                                252,229
                                                         --------
                                                         $271,876
                                                         ========

                                      F20



NOTE 8. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
- ----------------------------

     In May 1999, the Trust reorganized as a Maryland real estate investment
trust by amending and restating its declaration of trust and bylaws. The
Amended Declaration of Trust changed the number of authorized shares of common
and preferred shares from unlimited to 100,000,000 and 15,000,000,
respectively. In addition, all common shares of beneficial interest, no par
value, which were issued and outstanding were changed to common shares of
beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share and all Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares of beneficial interest, no par value, which were
issued and outstanding were changed to Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares of beneficial interest, $0.01 par value per share.

     On October 6, 1997 the Trust issued four million 7.95% Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares at $25 per share in a public offering, realizing
cash proceeds of approximately $96.6 million after costs of $3.4 million. The
Series A Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to October 6, 2002. On or
after that date, the Preferred Shares may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at
the option of the Trust, at a redemption price of $25 per share plus all
accrued and unpaid dividends. The redemption price is payable solely out of
proceeds from the sale of other capital shares of the Trust. Dividends on the
Preferred Shares are payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of January,
April, July and October.

     On November 19, 2001 the Trust issued 5.4 million 8.5% Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares at $25 per share in a public offering, realizing
cash proceeds of approximately $130.2 million after costs of $4.8 million. The
Series B Preferred Shares are not redeemable prior to November 27, 2006. On or
after that date, the Preferred Shares may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at
the option of the Trust, at a redemption price of $25 per share plus all
accrued and unpaid dividends. The redemption price is payable solely out of
proceeds from the sale of other capital shares of the Trust. Dividends on the
Preferred Shares are payable quarterly in arrears on the last day of January,
April, July and October.

     The Trust has a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, whereby shareholders may use
their dividends and make optional cash payments to purchase shares. In 2001,
2000 and 1999, 159,234 shares, 153,713 shares and 165,770 shares, respectively,
were issued under the Plan.

     In December 1999, the Trustees authorized a share repurchase program for
calendar year 2000 of up to an aggregate of 4 million of the Trust's common
shares. During 2000 a total of 1,325,900 shares were repurchased, at a cost of
$25.2 million. The Trust did not repurchase shares in 2001.

     In 2001 and 2000, 96,657 common shares and 270,809 common

                                      F21



shares, respectively, were awarded to the Trust's Chief Executive Officer and
other key employees under various incentive compensation programs designed to
directly link a significant portion of their current and long term compensation
to the prosperity of the Trust and its shareholders. The shares vest over terms
from 3 to 8 years.

     In 1999, 65,660 common shares were awarded, and 5,006 shares were
forfeited and retired, to the Trust's Chief Executive Officer and other key
employees under various incentive compensation programs. Fifteen thousand
shares vested upon award, and the balance vest over terms from 5 to 13 years.

     In January 1994 under the terms of the 1993 Long Term Incentive Plan, an
officer of the Trust purchased 40,000 common shares at $25 per share with the
assistance of a $1.0 million loan from the Trust. The loan, which has a term of
12 years and a current balance of $500,000, bears interest at 6.24%.
Forgiveness of up to 75% of the loan is subject to the future performance of
the Trust. One eighth of the loan was forgiven on January 31, 1995 and an
additional one sixteenth has been forgiven each January 31 since then as
certain performance criteria of the Trust were met.

     In January 1991 the Trustees adopted the Federal Realty Investment Trust
Share Purchase Plan. Under the terms of this plan, officers and certain
employees of the Trust purchased 446,000 common shares at $15.125 per share
with the assistance of loans of $6.7 million from the Trust. Originally, the
Plan called for one sixteenth of the loan to be forgiven each year for eight
years, as long as the participant was still employed by the Trust. The loans
for all participants, but two, were modified in 1994 to extend the term an
additional four years and to tie forgiveness in 1995 and thereafter to certain
performance criteria of the Trust. One sixteenth of the loan has been forgiven
during each year of the plan. At December 31, 2001 the Trust has outstanding
purchase loans to participants of $1.3 million. The purchase loans bear
interest at 9.39%. The shares purchased under the plan may not be sold, pledged
or assigned until both the purchase and tax loans associated with the plan are
satisfied and the term has expired, without the consent of the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Trustees.

     Tax loans with a balance of $3.1 million in 2001, $2.2 million in 2000 and
$1.3 million in 1999 have been made in connection with restricted share grants
to the Trust's Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Investment Officer
and in connection with the Share Purchase Plans. The loans, which bear interest
ranging from 6.36% to 9.39%, are due over periods ranging from 8 to 13 years
from the date of the loan.

     On April 13, 1999, the Shareholder Rights Plan adopted in 1989 expired. On
March 11, 1999 the Trust entered into an Amended and Restated Rights Agreement
with American Stock Transfer and Trust Company, pursuant to which (i)the
expiration date of the Trust's shareholder rights plan was extended for an
additional ten years to April 24, 2009, (ii)the beneficial ownership percentage
at which a person

                                      F22



becomes an "Acquiring Person" under the plan was reduced from 20% to 15%, and
(iii) certain other amendments were made.

NOTE 9. STOCK OPTION PLAN
- -------------------------

     The 1993 Long Term Incentive Plan ("Plan") has been amended to authorize
the grant of options and other stock based awards for up to 5.5 million shares.
Options granted under the Plan have ten year terms and vest in one to five
years. Under the Plan, on each annual meeting date during the term of the Plan,
each nonemployee Trustee will be awarded 2,500 options.

     In May 2001 the Trust's shareholders' approved the 2001 Long Term
Incentive Plan ("2001 Plan") which authorized an additional 1,750,000 shares
for future option and other stock based awards.

     The option price to acquire shares under the 2001 Plan and previous plans
is required to be at least the fair market value at the date of grant. As a
result of the exercise of options, the Trust had outstanding from its officers
and employees notes for $2.5 million, $2.6 million and $3.6 million at December
31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The notes issued under the 1993 Plan bear
interest at the lesser of (i) the Trust's borrowing rate on the date of
exercise or (ii) the dividend rate on the date of exercise divided by the
purchase price of such shares. The notes issued under the previous plans bear
interest at the lesser of (i) the Trust's borrowing rate or (ii) the current
indicated annual dividend rate on the shares acquired pursuant to the option,
divided by the purchase price of such shares. The notes are collateralized by
the shares and are with recourse. The loans have a term extending to the
employee's or officer's retirement date.

     SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" requires pro forma
information regarding net income and earnings per share as if the Trust
accounted for its stock options under the fair value method of that Statement.
The fair value for options issued in 2001, 2000 and 1999 has been estimated as
$350,000, $549,000 and $434,000, respectively, as of the date of grant, using a
binomial model with the following weighted-average assumptions for 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively: risk-free interest rates of 4.9%, 5.2% and 5.4%;
volatility factors of the expected market price of the Trust's shares of 20%,
14% and 15%; and a weighted average expected life of the option of 6.9 years,
5.7 years and 6.6 years. The Trust's assumed weighted average dividend yield
used to estimate the fair value of the options issued was 9.598% in 2001.

     Because option valuation models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions, such as the expected stock price volatility, and because changes
in these subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value
estimate, the existing model may not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of its stock options.

                                      F23



     For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options are amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. The pro
forma information is as follows (in thousands except for earnings per share):

                                      2001      2000     1999
- -------------------------------------------------------------

Pro forma net income                 $68,076   $59,445 $46,368
Pro forma earnings per share, basic    $1.51     $1.33    $.97
Pro forma earnings per share, diluted  $1.50     $1.32    $.97

     A summary of the Trust's stock option activity for the years ended
December 31, is as follows:

                                   Shares           Weighted
                                    Under           Average
                                   Option       Exercise Price
                                   ------       --------------

January 1, 1999                  3,608,816           $25.00
 Options granted                   720,000            21.12
 Options exercised                 (52,667)           20.73
 Options forfeited                (380,635)           25.29
                                ----------

December 31, 1999                3,895,514            24.31
 Options granted                   737,500            19.75
 Options exercised                 (67,684)           20.50
 Options forfeited                (847,049)           24.27
                                ----------

December 31, 2000                3,718,281            23.46
 Options granted                   417,500            19.80
 Options exercised                 (27,566)           20.81
 Options forfeited                (351,834)           22.88
                                ----------
December 31, 2001                3,756,381            23.12
                                ==========

     At December 31, 2001 and 2000, options for 2.7 million and 2.3 million
shares, respectively, were exercisable. The average remaining contractual life
of options outstanding at December 31, 2001 and 2000 was 5.8 years and 8.1
years, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value per option for
options granted in 2001 and 2000 was $1.04 and $.72, respectively. The exercise
price of options outstanding at December 31, 2001 ranged from $18.00 per share
to $27.13 per share.

NOTE 10. SAVINGS AND RETIREMENT PLANS
- -------------------------------------

     The Trust has a savings and retirement plan in accordance with the
provisions of Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Employees'
contributions range, at the discretion of each employee, from 1% to 20% of
compensation up to a maximum of $10,500. Under the plan, the Trust, out of its
current net income, contributes 50% of each employee's first 5% of
contributions. In addition, the Trust may make discretionary contributions
within the limits of deductibility set forth by the Code. Employees of the
Trust are immediately eligible to

                                     F24



become plan participants. Employees are not eligible to receive matching
contributions until their first anniversary of employment. The Trust's expense
for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 was $243,000, $216,000 and
$223,000, respectively.

     A nonqualified deferred compensation plan for Trust officers and directors
was established in 1994. The plan allows the participants to defer future
income until the earlier of age 65 or termination of employment with the Trust.
As of December 31, 2001, the Trust is liable to participants for approximately
$2.4 million under this plan. Although this is an unfunded plan, the Trust has
purchased certain investments with which to match this obligation.

NOTE 11. INTEREST EXPENSE
- -------------------------

     The Trust incurred interest expense totaling $87.1 million, $79.7 million
and $68.4 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, of which $17.8 million,
$13.3 million, and $6.9 million respectively, was capitalized. Interest paid
was $84.1 million in 2001, $83.1 million in 2000 and $67.0 million in 1999.

NOTE 12. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
- --------------------------

     On January 31, 2002 the Trust received repayment of $1,152,000 of mortgage
notes receivable.

     On February 1, 2002, to complete the buyout of the minority partner at
Santana Row, the Trust received the minority partner's interest in Santana Row
in exchange for a $2.6 million investment in a partnership which had purchased a
building. A $5.9 million loan made by the Trust to the partnership as part of
the original purchase is due January 12, 2003.

     As has been the practice over the past four years, under a Restricted
Share Agreement designed to link his compensation with the prosperity of the
shareholders, the Trust's Chief Executive Officer elected to accept stock in
lieu of cash for his 2002 salary and 2001 bonus. As a result, in 2002, 28,913
common shares were awarded to the Chief Executive Officer in lieu of his 2002
cash salary and 14,908 shares in lieu of his 2001 bonus.

     Pursuant to the 2001 Incentive Bonus Plan, vice presidents and certain key
employees receive part of their 2001 bonus in Federal Realty shares which vest
over three years. Consequently, on February 28, 2002, 23,168 shares were
awarded under this plan.

     In February 2002, 415,000 options and 30,000 performance shares were
granted to certain officers and key employees.

                                     F25



NOTE 13. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS - CHANGE IN BUSINESS PLAN (UNAUDITED)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

     On February 28, 2002 the Trust adopted a business plan which returns the
Trust's primary focus to its traditional business of acquiring and redeveloping
community and neighborhood shopping centers that are anchored by supermarkets,
drug stores or high volume, value oriented retailers that provide consumer
necessities. Concurrent with the adoption of the business plan, the Trust
adopted a management succession plan and restructured its management team.

     The Trust will complete Bethesda Row, Pentagon Row and Santana Row, but
does not plan any new, large-scale, mixed-use, ground-up development projects.
Rather, the Trust will return its focus to community and neighborhood shopping
centers. The Trust will seek to acquire income producing centers, may seek
opportunities to develop ground-up grocery anchored shopping centers in and
around the Metropolitan Washington, D.C., Philadelphia and New York markets and
will identify and execute redevelopment opportunities in its existing portfolio.

     Steven J. Guttman, the Trust's Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board, will primarily devote his attention to the completion of Santana Row.
Upon Mr. Guttman's planned retirement in March 2003, it is expected that Donald
C. Wood will become Chief Executive Officer with Mr. Guttman remaining as
Chairman of the Board. Effective March 1, 2002, the Trust combined functions of
its previous Chief Investment Officer and Chief Financial Officer, and appointed
Larry E. Finger, to the new executive office of Chief Financial Officer in
charge of capital markets, investor relations and financial reporting. With the
renewed emphasis on acquisitions, Jeffrey S. Berkes was appointed an executive
officer, Senior Vice President - Strategic Transactions.

     As a result of the change in the Trust's business plan, the Trust estimates
it will record a charge of $16 million to $18 million in the first quarter of
2002. The charge includes severance and other compensation costs related to the
management restructuring as well as charges to write-down the Trust's
Tanasbourne and other development projects to fair value since the Trust will
hold the Tanasbourne project for sale. The Trust is re-evaluating the most
effective way to realize value on these assets on a risk-adjusted return basis.

NOTE 14. SEGMENT INFORMATION
- ----------------------------

     The Trust operates its portfolio of assets in three geographic operating
regions: Northeast, Mid-Atlantic and West.

                                     F26



     A summary of the Trust's operations by geographic region is presented
below (in thousands):

There are no transactions between geographic areas.

                                     F27



NOTE 15. QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
- -----------------------------------

     The following summary represents the results of operations for each
quarter in 2001 and 2000 (in thousands, except per share data):



(1)Net income includes a $7.9 million gain on sale of real estate ($.20 gain
per share - basic and diluted).

(2)Net income includes a net $1.3 million gain on sale of real estate ($.03
gain per share - basic and $.02 gain per share - diluted).

(3)Net income includes a $3.7 million gain on sale of real estate ($.10 gain
per share - basic and $.09 gain per share - diluted).

(4)The sum of quarterly earnings per common share - diluted, $1.51 differs from
the annual earnings per common share - diluted, $1.52, due to rounding.

                                     F28





                                    F29





                                     F30



                          FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST
                                    SCHEDULE III
                     SUMMARY OF REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
                          DEPRECIATION - CONTINUED
                          Three Years Ended December 31, 2001

                           Reconciliation of Total Cost

Balance, January 1, 1999                                       $1,642,136,000

   Additions during period
      Acquisitions                                                 26,355,000
      Improvements                                                 95,148,000
   Deduction during period - disposition
   of property and miscellaneous retirements and impairments      (42,180,000)
                                                               --------------

Balance, December 31, 1999                                      1,721,459,000

   Additions during period
      Acquisitions                                                 26,794,000
      Improvements                                                156,021,000
   Deduction during period - disposition
   of property and miscellaneous retirements                      (49,361,000)
                                                               --------------

Balance, December 31, 2000                                      1,854,913,000

   Additions during period
      Acquisitions                                                 52,820,000
      Improvements                                                219,549,000
   Deduction during period - disposition
   of property and miscellaneous retirements                      (22,978,000)
                                                               --------------

Balance, December 31, 2001                                     $2,104,304,000
                                                               ==============

   (A)  For Federal tax purposes, the aggregate cost basis is approximately
         $1,898,190,000 as of December 31, 2001.

                                     F31



                          FEDERAL REALTY INVESTMENT TRUST
                                    SCHEDULE III
                     SUMMARY OF REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
                          DEPRECIATION - CONTINUED
                          Three Years Ended December 31, 2001

                Reconciliation of Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization
                ------------------------------------------------------------



                                     F32





1) For Federal tax purposes, the aggregate tax basis is approximately
   $35,607,000 as of December 31, 2001. No payments are delinquent on these
   mortgages.
2) This mortgage is extendable for up to 45 years with interest increasing to a
   maximum of 11%.
3) This mortgage balance was repaid on January 31, 2002.
4) This mortgage is available for up to $25,000,000.

                                      F33





                                      F34


