
10-K405







                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                                 FORM 10-K

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended DECEMBER 31, 1995    Commission File Number 1-6028


                       LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
          (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


         Indiana                                35-1140070            
    (State of incorporation)      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

           200 East Berry Street, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46802-2706


                 (Address of principal executive offices)

           Registrant's telephone number         (219) 455-2000

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                            Name of each exchange on
        Title of each class                     which registered    

Common Stock (Without Par Value)            New York, Chicago, Pacific,
                                              London and Tokyo Stock 
                                              Exchanges
Common Share Purchase Rights                New York, Chicago and Pacific
                                              Stock Exchanges
$3.00 Cumulative Convertible Preferred      New York and Chicago Stock
  Stock, Series A (Without Par Value)         Exchanges

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                              None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes [ x ]     No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. [ x ]

As of March 1, 1996, 104,233,132 shares of common stock were outstanding. The 
aggregate market value of such shares (based upon the closing price of these 
shares on the New York Stock Exchange) held by nonaffiliates was approximately
$5,719,800,000.

Select materials from the Proxy statement for the Annual meeting of 
Shareholders, scheduled for May 9, 1996, have been incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Form 10-K.

The exhibit index to this report is located on page 80.


                               Page 1 of 446

  -2-

PART I

Item 1.  Business

Lincoln National Corporation ("LNC") is a holding company.  Through subsidiary
companies, LNC operates multiple insurance and investment management
businesses.  LNC is the 48th largest (based on assets) U.S. Corporation (1994
Fortune 500 rankings).  Operations have been divided into four business
segments, 1) Life Insurance and Annuities, 2) Reinsurance 3) Property-Casualty
and 4) Investment Management.  The Investment Management segment was added in
April of 1995 following the acquisition of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc.
(see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 65).  Prior to
the sale of 71% of its direct writer of employee life-health coverages in the
first quarter of 1994, LNC conducted business in a business segment entitled
Employee Life-Health Benefits.  After the sale, the earnings from the 29%
minority interest retained were included in "Other Operations" as described
below.  Although one of the subsidiaries held by LNC was formed as early as
1905, LNC itself was formed in 1968.  LNC is an Indiana corporation with its
principal office at 200 East Berry Street, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46802-2706.  As
of December 31, 1995, there were 225 persons on the staff of LNC.  Total
employment of Lincoln National Corporation at December 31, 1995 on a
consolidated basis was 10,250.

Although acquisition and disposition activity has occurred, there has been no 
activity of this nature during the past five years involving all or
predominately all of a business segment except as described above.

Numeric presentations showing revenues, pre-tax income, and assets for LNC's 
major business segments and other operations in which LNC engages through its
subsidiaries are included in this report as part of the consolidated financial
statements (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page 62). 
The LNC "Other Operations" category includes the financial data for an
unconsolidated affiliate (subsequent to the first quarter of 1994 and prior to
the sale of this holding in October of 1995) engaged in the employee life-
health benefits business, certain other operations that are not directly
related to the business segments and unallocated corporate items (i.e.,
corporate investment income, interest expense on short-term and long-term
borrowings, and unallocated corporate overhead expenses).

Following is a brief description of the four business segments:

1.  Life Insurance and Annuities
The primary companies within this business segment are The Lincoln National
Life Insurance Company ("Lincoln Life") and Lincoln National (UK) plc.  Other
companies within this business segment include, First Penn-Pacific Life
Insurance Company ("First Penn")and American States Life Insurance Company
("American States Life"). 

Lincoln Life, which is among the 10 largest U.S. stockholder-owned life
insurance companies based on revenues (1994 Fortune Rankings of 50 Largest
Life Insurance Companies by Revenues) and the 11th largest based on assets
(Best's Review Life-Health Edition, October 1995), is an Indiana corporation
headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana.  A network of 38 life insurance
agencies, independent life insurance brokers, insurance agencies located
within financial institutions and specifically trained employees sells fixed
annuities, variable annuities, pension products, universal life, variable
universal life, long-term care insurance, disability income and other
individual insurance coverages in most states of the United States.  The
distribution network includes approximately 1,900 career agents, 18,500
brokers and access to 52,000 stockbrokers and financial planners.  During
1995, LNC announced that it would stop selling disability income coverage on a
direct basis and that the runoff of the existing business would be moved to
its Reinsurance segment.

Lincoln National (UK) is a United Kingdom company headquartered in Uxbridge,
England, that is licensed to do business throughout the United Kingdom.  The
principal products produced by this operation, unit-linked life and pension
products, are similar to U.S. produced variable life products.  The
distribution network includes approximately 1,800 sales representatives.  
Lincoln National (UK) is the 12th largest writer of unit-linked new business 

  -3-

premiums in the UK as measured in 1994 (Money Management Survey-New Business
Trends, published in June 1995).  After adding the unit-linked business from
the acquisitions completed in the first half of 1995 (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65), to its existing business,
Lincoln National (UK) advanced to the 10th largest writer of unit-linked new
business premiums.

First Penn is an Indiana Corporation headquartered in Oakbrook Terrace,
Illinois.  Its products include universal life products distributed through
independent marketing companies, term insurance distributed through brokers
and the sale of Lincoln Life's deferred annuities through insurance agencies
located within financial institutions.  These products are marketed in most
states of the United States. 

American States Life is an Indiana corporation headquartered in Indianapolis,
Indiana.  Its products, principally universal life and term insurance, are
marketed through independent agencies (which also offer property-casualty
insurance) in most states of the United States.
   
Approximately 4,875 employees are involved in this business segment.


2.  Reinsurance
This segment offers a broad range of risk management products and services to
insurance companies, HMOs, self-funded employers and other primary market risk
accepting organizations throughout the United States and economically
attractive international markets.  Marketing efforts are conducted primarily
through the efforts of a reinsurance sales staff.  Some business is presented
by reinsurance intermediaries and brokers.  The reinsurance organization is
the leading life-health reinsurer worldwide measured on gross premiums, net of
ceded (Swiss Re, Economics Studies, June 1995). 

The primary companies within this business segment are Lincoln National
Reassurance Company ("LNRAC"), Lincoln National Health & Casualty Insurance
Company ("LNH&C"), Lincoln Life, Lincoln National Reinsurance Company Ltd
(Bermuda) and Lincoln National Reinsurance Company Ltd (Barbados).  LNRAC and
Lincoln Life offer reinsurance programs for individual life, group life, group
medical, disability income, personal accident and annuity products to U.S. and
international clients.  LNH&C offers group medical products and services on
both a direct and reinsurance basis.  The insurance companies in Bermuda and
Barbados offer specialized reinsurance programs for life, health and annuity
business, and offer funded cover programs to property-casualty carriers in the
U.S. and select international markets.
   
Other companies in this business segment include various general business
corporations which are used to support the segment's sales, service and
administration efforts.  

Approximately 610 employees are involved in this business segment.


3.  Property-Casualty
Property-Casualty insurance includes both personal lines (auto, homeowners,
multi-peril and other) and commercial lines (business owners policies, auto,
multi-peril, workers' compensation, general liability and other).

Most of LNC's property-casualty business is conducted through American States
Insurance Company and its property-casualty subsidiaries ("American States"),
headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana.  These companies operate a multi-line
property-casualty insurance business in most states of the United States
through 20 semi-autonomous division offices with broad authority for
underwriting, agency contracting, marketing and claims settlement for most
lines of business.  The distribution network involves approximately 5,000
independent agencies.  In November 1995, American States announced it would be
consolidating the activities of its divisional offices into four regional
offices.

A company within this business segment not owned by American States is Linsco
Reinsurance Company which is licensed to write property-casualty reinsurance. 
This company is involved in servicing a closed block of business.

Approximately 3,630 employees are involved in this business segment.

 -4-

4.  Investment Management
The companies within this business segment include Lincoln National Investment 
Companies, Inc. ("LNIC"), Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. ("Delaware"),
Lincoln Investment Management, Inc. ("Lincoln Investment"), Lynch & Mayer,
Inc. ("L&M") and Vantage Global Advisors, Inc. ("Vantage").  LNIC is a second-
tier holding company that owns the operating companies within this segment. 
The operating companies provide a variety of asset management services to
institutional and retail customers including other insurance companies,
pension plans, college endowment funds, individuals and trusts.  These
companies serve as investment advisor to approximately 500 pension funds and
other institutional accounts; act as investment manager/national distributor
and shareholder services agent for 38 registered, open-end funds; and serve as
investment manager for 4 registered, closed-end funds.

Approximately 910 employees are involved in this business segment.

LNC's insurance subsidiaries protect themselves against losses greater than
the amount they are willing to retain on any one risk or event, by purchasing
reinsurance from unaffiliated insurance companies (see note 7 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 57).  

All the areas of business activity in which LNC is involved are highly 
competitive because of the market structure and the large number of competing
companies.

At the end of 1994, the latest year for which data is available, there were
more than 1,800 life insurance companies in the United States and Lincoln Life
was among the 20 largest stock and mutual life insurance companies in the
United States based on revenues (1994 Fortune Ranking of 50 Largest U.S. Life
Insurance Companies by Revenues).

At the end of 1994, the latest year for which data is available, there were
approximately 1,200 groups and unaffiliated individual companies selling
property and casualty insurance.  LNC's group of companies writing
property-casualty insurance ranked 30th in net written premiums for 1994 (A.M.
Best Aggregates and Averages) among all such groups and companies.

The business of LNC's life insurance and annuities, reinsurance and property-
casualty business segments, in common with those of other insurance companies,
is subject to regulation and supervision by the states, territories and
foreign countries in which they are admitted to do business. The laws of these
jurisdictions generally establish supervisory agencies with broad
administrative powers relative to granting and revoking licenses to transact
business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, prescribing and
approving policy forms, regulating premium rates for some lines of business,
establishing reserve requirements, regulating competitive matters, prescribing
the form and content of financial statements and reports, regulating the type
and amount of investments permitted, and prescribing minimum levels of
capital.  The ability to continue an insurance business is dependent upon the
maintenance of the licenses in the various jurisdictions.

LNC's investment management companies in common with other investment advisors
are subject to regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, National Association of Securities Dealers and the jurisdictions
of the states, territories and foreign countries in which they are admitted to
do business.

Because of the nature of the insurance and investment management businesses,
there is no single customer or group of customers upon whom the business is
dependent.  Factors such as backlog, raw materials, patents (including
trademarks, licenses, franchises, and any other concessions held),
seasonality, or environmental impact do not have a material effect upon such
businesses.  However, within LNC's Reinsurance segment, Lincoln National Risk
Management, Inc. does hold a patent for "The Method and Apparatus for
Evaluating a Potentially Insurable Risk" and markets multiple knowledge based
underwriting products which rely on this product.  LNC does not have a
separate unit that conducts market research.  Research activities related to
new products or services or the improvement of existing products or services 

 -5-

is completed by persons within the business segments.  Expenses related to
such activities are not material.  Also, sales are not dependent upon select
geographic areas.  LNC has foreign operations which are significant in
relationship to the consolidated group (see note 9 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 63).       

Liabilities for claims and claim expenses for the property-casualty 
business segment are estimated at the end of each accounting period using
case-basis evaluations and statistical projections.  These liabilities 
include estimates for the ultimate cost of claims 1) which have been reported
but not settled and 2) which have been incurred but not yet reported.  A
provision for inflation is implicitly considered in the estimated liability as
the development of the estimated liability is based on historical data which
reflects past inflation and on other factors which are judged to be
appropriate modifiers of past experience.  Adjustments to previously
established estimates are reflected in current operating results along with
initial estimates for claims arising within the current accounting period.  

A reconciliation of the beginning of year and end of year liability for claims
and claim expenses is included in this report as part of the financial
statements (see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 50).

The liability for claims and claim expenses included in this report is shown
on a basis prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). 
Such liabilities differ from that reported to state insurance regulators.  A
reconciliation of the GAAP liability and the corresponding liability reported
to state insurance regulators is as follows:



The table on page 6 shows the development of the estimated liability for claim
and claim expenses for the ten year period prior to 1995.  Each column shows
the liability as originally estimated and cumulative data on payments and re-
estimated liabilities for that accident year and all prior accident years, 
making up that calendar year-end liability; and all amounts are reflected net
of reinsurance recoverable for all years.  The resulting redundancy
(deficiency) is also a cumulative amount for that year and all prior years. 
Conditions and trends that have affected the development of these liabilities
in the past may not necessarily recur in the future; therefore, it would not
be appropriate to use this cumulative history in the projection of future
performance.

 -6-











Item 2. Properties

LNC and the various Fort Wayne operating businesses owned or leased
approximately 1.4 million square feet of office space in the Fort Wayne area. 
The operating businesses in Indianapolis, Indiana; Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois;
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and Uxbridge and Gloster, England owned or leased
another 1.3 million square feet of office space.  In addition, branch offices
owned or leased for all of the operating businesses referenced above as well
as the space for some smaller operations total approximately 1.8 million
square feet.  The square feet of office space utilized for this third group
will be reduced by approximately 750,000 square feet over the next few years
due to the consolidation of operating offices within the Property-Casualty
segment (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 65).  As
shown in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (see note 7 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 57), the rental expense on operating
leases for office space and equipment for continuing operations totaled $65.6
million for 1995 of which $57.3 million was for office space.  This discussion
regarding properties does not include information on investment properties.

 -7-

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

LNC and its subsidiaries are involved in various pending or threatened legal
proceedings arising from the conduct of their business.  In some instances, 
these proceedings include claims for punitive damages and similar types of 
relief in unspecified or substantial amounts in addition to amounts for 
alleged contractual liability or requests for equitable relief.  After 
consultation with counsel and a review of available facts, it is management's 
opinion that these proceedings ultimately will be resolved without materially 
affecting the consolidated financial statements of LNC.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of 1995, no matters were submitted to security 
holders for a vote.
       

PART II



Dividend Guideline:
The dividend on LNC's common stock is determined each quarter by the
Corporation's Board of Directors.  The Board takes into consideration the
financial condition of the Corporation, including current and expected 
earnings, projected cash flows and anticipated financing needs.  The Board 
also considers the ability to maintain the dividend through bad times as well 
as good so that the dividend would need to be reduced only under unusual 
circumstances.  One guideline that the Board has found useful is to consider a
dividend approximately equal to five percent of the book value per share with
such book value computed excluding the impact of marking its securities
available-for-sale to fair value.

 -8-





 -9-

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial   
         Condition and Results of Operations

The pages to follow review LNC's results of operations and financial condi-

tion.  Historical financial information is presented and analyzed.  Where
appropriate, factors that may affect future financial performance are 
identified and discussed.  Actual results could differ materially from those
indicated in forward-looking statements due to, among other specific changes
currently not known, subsequent significant changes in:  the company (e.g.
acquisitions and divestitures), financial markets (e.g. interest rates and
securities markets), legislation (e.g. taxes and product taxation),
regulations (e.g. insurance and securities regulations), acts of God (e.g.
hurricanes, earthquakes and storms), other insurance risks (e.g. policyholder
mortality and morbidity) and competition.

On pages 10 through 19, the financial results of LNC's four business segments 
and other operations are presented and discussed.  Within these business
segment discussions, reference is made to "Income from Operations" (see
definition in Item 6 above).  Pages 20 through 32 discuss factors that have
affected specific elements of the consolidated financial statements as well as
information pertaining to LNC as a whole. 

This "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the audited financial
statements, including the notes thereto, presented on pages 34 through 66.

 -10-





The Life Insurance and Annuities segment reported its sixth consecutive year
of record earnings in 1995.  Income from operations increased 35% to $251.6
million, compared with $185.8 million in 1994.  This growth was produced
through a combination of expanded annuity business in the United States and
acquisitions in the United Kingdom. 

Profile
The Life Insurance and Annuities segment is composed of the direct operations
of Lincoln National Life ("Lincoln Life"), Lincoln National (UK) plc, First
Penn-Pacific ("First Penn") and American States Life. 

Lincoln Life is the 11th largest life insurer in the United States as 
measured by assets (Best's Review, Life-Health Edition, October 1995). 
Lincoln Life is in the midst of a transformation process to better serve four
target markets: small-to-medium-sized businesses; not-for-profit 
organizations; retirees with investable assets; and individuals with high net
worth.  The transformation process, expected to be completed by the end of
1997, is designed to create major improvements in service, products and 
expense levels.

Lincoln National (UK) is the 12th largest unit-linked life insurer in the 
United Kingdom as measured by 1994 premiums of those companies writing 
predominantly unit-linked life and pension business (Money Management, June
1995).  Unit-linked business is comparable to variable life policies in the
United States.

First Penn is a mid-sized insurance company with specialized skills in 
customizing interest-sensitive products.  It also has expertise in term life
insurance.  First Penn complements Lincoln Life's operations by meeting needs

 -11

in niche financial services markets. American States Life serves the income
protection needs of individuals who are clients of independent agencies
associated with American States Insurance Company, LNC's property-casualty
affiliate. 

Varied Distribution
Breadth of distribution sets the Life Insurance and Annuities segment apart
from the competition.  Many life insurers rely largely upon a single 
distribution channel.  However, the four companies in the Life Insurance and
Annuities segment offer products through a varied distribution system that
includes career agents, independent agencies, insurance brokers, banks,
stockbrokers and financial planners in the U.S. and, in the U.K., a direct
sales force and tied agents.   

Lincoln Life's broad range of asset accumulation and income protection 
products are sold in 49 states through approximately 1,900 career agents, 
18,500 insurance brokers and more than 52,000 stockbrokers and financial 
planners.  The product portfolio includes: fixed and variable annuities; 
term, universal and variable universal life insurance; long-term care 
coverage; and 401(k) plans.

Lincoln Life is strongly committed to growing its career agent system, 
Lincoln Financial Group.  The career agent system is supported by 38 regional
offices housing market specialists easily accessible to the career agent sales
force.  Each office is essentially a "home office in the field."  A good
measure of Lincoln Life's reputation as a "career shop" is its attractiveness
to seasoned agents.  More than 50% of the agents recruited by Lincoln Life
each year have prior experience as agents.   

First Penn sells universal life, universal life with long-term care riders,
term life and fixed annuities through banks, savings and loans, 
broker/dealers, stockbrokers and financial planners.  Five thousand 
independent property-casualty agencies offer the universal and term life 
coverage and annuity products of American States Life.  Lincoln National (UK)
sells life, investment, income protection and retirement planning products
through approximately 1,800 direct sales representatives and tied agents.  Its
sales force is the sixth largest among life insurers in the United Kingdom
(Money Management, July 1995). 

Annuities 
The combined annuity earnings of Lincoln Life and First Penn grew 24% to a 
record $149.3 million in 1995.  At the heart of this growth was a 23% 
increase in annuity account values, which reached more than $30 billion at 
the end of the year.  Lincoln Life and First Penn amassed $3.7 billion in new
annuity deposits in 1995, a 16% decrease from 1994.  The decrease is 
attributable to intense competition in the financial institutions sector.

Lincoln Life's career agents produced 45% of its new annuity deposits in 
1995.  Stockbrokers and financial planners generated 41% and continue to be 
the company's dominant distributors of variable annuities.  Deposits through
stockbrokers hit new highs, with substantial increases in the fourth quarter,
as the stock market thrived in 1995.  Distribution through banks and other
financial institutions produced 14% of annuity deposits.  According to the
most recent statistics available, Lincoln Life was the nation's leading writer
of individual fixed annuities and the third largest writer of individual
variable annuities in 1994 (Best's Policy Reports, July 1995).

Pensions
Lincoln Life's 401(k) sales continued a dramatic series of strong annual 
increases.  401(k) account values grew 35% annually from 1990 to 1994 and 
were up another 30% in 1995.  Total 401(k) deposits were up 37% over the 
previous year.  This marked increase in volume has put extreme pressure on 
service capacity.  The need to rapidly build more service capacity has put 
temporary pressure on 401(k) profits.  The remainder of Lincoln Life's 
pension operations in 1995 consisted of guaranteed interest contracts (GICs)
and group pension annuities (GPAs).  Lincoln Life announced in the third
quarter of 1995 that it would cease writing GICs and GPAs because neither fit
its sharper focus in the retirement planning market. 

U.S. Life Insurance
Income from life insurance operations of Lincoln Life and First Penn was 
$31.1 million, a slight decrease from 1994. Lincoln Life's and First Penn's
combined universal and variable universal life account values increased 10% in

 -12-

1995 to $2.6 billion.  Variable universal life continues to represent an
increasing portion of new sales.  First Penn introduced a new term life
product in July 1995.  In the first quarter of 1996, Lincoln Life introduced a
term life product administered by First Penn.  Term life is expected to
produce a growing share of new sales.  American States Life reported earnings
of $13.0 million on life insurance and annuity operations in 1995, a slight
increase from 1994 earnings.  Account values were up 11% to $317 million.

Lincoln National (UK)
Income from operations for Lincoln National (UK) advanced to $45.9 million in
1995, from $17.2 million in 1994.  This growth was generated by the 
acquisitions of Liberty Life Assurance Co. Ltd. and Laurentian Financial Group
plc and the successful initial steps to integrate these two companies with
existing operations.  A primary goal in 1996 is to complete the integration.
Operating efficiencies are already apparent.  The three separate companies
budgeted a total of $210 million for operating expenses in 1995.  The merged
companies have budgeted $120 million for 1996, a reduction of 43%.  A
substantial portion of these savings were realized in 1995. 

Disability Income
In 1995, Lincoln Life reached a decision to stop writing disability income 
coverage on a direct basis effective March 31, 1996.  Lincoln Life has 
entered into an agreement with Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company
("Provident") to make Provident's disability income insurance products
available to Lincoln Life agents and brokers.  Provident is a recognized
leader among individual disability income insurers.  LNC's reinsurance
operation will be administering the disability income business previously
written on a direct basis.

Outlook
In the first quarter of 1996, Lincoln Life announced an agreement to acquire
the group tax-sheltered annuity business of two UNUM Corporation affiliates.
The acquisition will boost Lincoln Life's total annuity account values by
approximately $3 billion, or about 10%.  The transaction, subject to
regulatory approval, is expected to be completed by late summer.  Lincoln Life
looks forward to continued sales growth in 401(k) plans, variable life
insurance and fixed and variable annuities in 1996.  Lincoln Life anticipates
earnings growth in 1996, despite higher expenses in the short-term related to
its transformation process.  Lincoln National (UK) is well-positioned for
long-term earnings growth in what, by U.S. standards, is an underserved life
insurance and pension market.




 -13-
  
The Reinsurance segment is conducted through Lincoln National Reinsurance 
Companies ("LNRC").

LNRC's reported income from operations, absent a fourth quarter charge against
earnings related to LNC's direct and reinsurance disability income business,
increased 3.5% to $68.9 million in 1995.  Including the disability income
reserve strengthening of $121.6 million, after-tax, LNRC reported a loss from
operations of $52.7 million in 1995.  

Profile
LNRC is the leading life-health reinsurer worldwide, based on net premium 
income (Swiss Re, Economic Studies, June 1995).  In 1995, LNRC reported to 
regulatory authorities consolidated, worldwide net premium income of $2.9 
billion, a 21% increase over 1994.

However, a full appreciation of the segment's standing among reinsurers 
cannot be gleaned from financial reports alone.  LNRC does not compete on the
basis of price.  Nor does it peg its stature on its position as the net 
premium income leader.  Rather, LNRC seeks to understand the unique risk 
management needs of each of its customers.  It designs plans for risk 
transfer and capital management that build long-term partnerships with client
companies.  LNRC has the depth of expertise necessary to deal with 
complexities and craft creative solutions that assist clients in meeting 
their business goals.  Simply stated, LNRC delivers value.  Strengths in 
knowledge management and product development, as well as a sharp customer 
focus and innovative alliances with service providers, combine to provide 
value.   

Disability Income
LNC took a series of decisive actions related to its disability income 
insurance business in 1995.  In August, LNC announced Lincoln Life's 
withdrawal from the difficult direct market for disability income coverages.
The withdrawal took effect in early 1996.  In November, LNC announced that: 1)
the block of disability income business written on a direct basis would be
consolidated within LNRC's disability income operations to take advantage of
the Reinsurance segment's expertise in both risk and claims management; and 2)
it would take a charge against earnings of $121.6 million, after-tax, in the
fourth quarter to strengthen reserves related to its direct and reinsurance
individual disability income business.

Although it is extremely selective in its underwriting, LNRC remains in the
disability income reinsurance marketplace.  Moreover, LNRC is a source for
"best practices" to help client companies improve their disability income
results.  In this way, LNRC's research capability is leveraging knowledge
throughout the insurance industry.

Knowledge Management
Another prominent instance of such leveraging is the wide utilization of 
underwriting manuals developed by LNRC.  In a very real sense, LNRC "wrote 
the book" on life and health risk selection.  These manuals assist 
underwriting decisions at approximately 500 U.S. and Canadian life and health
insurers.

Additionally, LNRC's patented Life Underwriting System ("LUS") was licensed to
5 more life insurance carriers in 1995, bringing the number of LUS licensees
to 49.  LUS, a state-of-the-art risk management technology, provides decision
support to underwriters.  Carriers licensed on LUS issue one-quarter of the
normally underwritten life insurance policies in the United States and one-
half of all such life policies in Canada.  Virtually every case underwritten
by LNRC in 1995 was processed on LUS, significantly speeding the turnaround
time for those policies that required individual reinsurance underwriting. 

 -14-

Individual and Group Markets
Superior customer service, particularly the information flow provided by LUS,
differentiates LNRC in the increasingly competitive individual and group
markets.  LNRC enjoyed especially strong operating results of $54.8 million in
these markets in 1995, the fourth consecutive year of favorable mortality and
morbidity.  Individual life sales volume, as measured by face amount of new
business, grew 14% to $22.7 billion.  LNRC's annualized premium in the group
market remained essentially flat in 1995.

International Markets
International markets have been an area of recent growth for LNRC.  Income 
from operations increased 8% in 1995 to $13.8 million, and several steps were
taken to position LNRC for future growth worldwide.  LNRC signed a memorandum
of understanding with an Indonesian reinsurer and entered into an agreement to
be represented by an individual life underwriting office in Tel Aviv.  A
London office was opened to provide personal accident underwriting and
administrative services worldwide.  LNRC pursues a niche marketing strategy
globally, developing partnerships and alliances as new opportunities are
identified. 

Financial Reinsurance
Financial reinsurance continues to contribute strong earnings to LNRC, 
generating $10.2 million in 1995.  LNRC's largest financial reinsurance 
agreement in 1995 involved transfer of more than $500 million of assets and
reserves to LNRC.  The agreement exposes LNRC to limited underwriting risk
while offering an opportunity for a significant profit on investment results. 

Financial reinsurance opportunities are evolving as the direct marketplace 
shifts its emphasis to asset accumulation products.  A notable synergy has 
developed between LNRC and LNC's newly formed Investment Management segment.
LNRC is well-positioned, in cooperation with Lincoln Investment Management, to
provide comprehensive solutions to annuity writers seeking assistance in
managing investments, risk and capital. 

Service-Provider Alliances
LNRC has alliances with nearly three dozen entities that are not life or 
health insurers, such as medical equipment suppliers, direct marketing 
organizations, electronic information providers and specialty vendors 
servicing variable life and annuity business.  These service-provider 
alliances, unique among reinsurers, enable LNRC to fashion creative solutions
for its traditional client base of insurance companies in the U.S. and select
international markets, health maintenance organizations and self-funded
employer groups.

Distribution
Account executives and sales specialists acting in a consultative role are 
the key distributors of LNRC products.  LNRC also accepts business from 
reinsurance intermediaries in select specialty markets.
  
Outlook
LNRC will concentrate on revenue growth in 1996 through a multiplicity of 
strategies in all of its markets.  General strategies include: alliances for
new products in individual markets; an emphasis on increased market share and
the promotion of non-medical products in group markets; revenue growth through
target marketing internationally; and continued attention to opportunities
related to the popularity of asset accumulation products in the direct
marketplace.  

 -15-



LNC's Property-Casualty segment consists primarily of American States 
Insurance Company ("American States").

Absent a special charge for the realignment of American States' field 
structure, the Property-Casualty segment reported income from operations of
$166.3 million in 1995.  This was a 5% increase over the previous year's 
strong earnings.

The results were particularly impressive considering the frequency and 
severity of U.S. insured property losses in 1995, the third costliest year on
record in terms of weather-related property damage.  American States' incurred
loss for Hurricane Opal, the single most destructive weather event of 1995,
was limited to $15.0 million of Opal's estimated $2.1 billion total insured
property damage. 

The Property-Casualty segment's total net written premium was essentially 
flat in 1995, following decreases in the years from 1991 to 1994.  Net 
investment income contributed $200.7 million to the segment's income from 
operations, a slight decline from 1994.

Profile
American States offers a broad spectrum of personal and commercial lines 
property-casualty insurance throughout the United States.  The company's 
market focus is on providing commercial insurance to small-to-medium-sized
businesses and preferred personal lines coverages to individuals.  Its
greatest concentration of business and market share is in the Midwest and
Northwest.  Headquartered in Indianapolis, American States is the 30th largest
property-casualty insurer in the U.S. (A.M. Best Aggregates & Averages, 1995).

Distribution
American States has strong, long-term relationships with nearly 5,000 
independent local agencies.  On average, these agencies have maintained 
relationships with the company for more than 10 years.  American States views
its policyholders as "shared customers" with the agencies. 

Realignment
In November 1995, American States announced a realignment of its field 
structure designed to reduce expenses and enhance growth.  Under the 
realignment, American States will continue to provide sales, claims and 

 -16-

technology support services from approximately 225 locations.  However, over
the next two years, management of those functions and most of the 
underwriting will be moved from 20 division offices to four regional offices.
Additionally, American States has created 24 field executive positions to
maintain and enhance its working relationships with its agencies.

LNC's income from operations for 1995 includes a one-time special charge of
$13.7 million, after-tax, related to the realignment of American States'
division offices. 

Combined Ratio
The Property-Casualty segment's combined ratio improved for the third 
straight year to 104.9%, compared with 105.7% in 1994.  Absent the special 
charge, the combined ratio for 1995 was 103.6%.  Catastrophes contributed 4.8
points to the combined ratio in 1995, compared with 4.2 points in 1994.

Personal Lines
Personal lines business represented 41% of the Property-Casualty segment's 
total net written premiums for 1995.  The personal lines underwriting loss 
was $21.2 million in 1995, with a $9.0 million improvement in underwriting 
income over 1994.  The combined ratio in personal lines improved 3 points for
the year to 104.8%.  Catastrophe losses for personal lines business were
somewhat lower in 1995 than in 1994. 

Preferred private passenger automobile and homeowners' coverage comprise 80%
of American State's personal lines business.  Private passenger auto insurance
results continued to improve.  Homeowners' earnings showed some improvement
due to better pricing, but this business remains unprofitable.  American
States will focus on writing more private passenger auto business, but will
take a cautious and conservative approach to homeowners coverage.

Commercial Lines
Commercial lines business represented 59% of the Property-Casualty segment's
total net written premiums for 1995.  The commercial lines combined ratio
increased to 105.0% in 1995, up from 104.4% in 1994.  However, the combined
ratio excluding catastrophes was nearly a full point better than 1994.
Commercial lines had a $26.9 million after-tax underwriting loss in 1995,
compared with a $19.5 million loss in 1994.

American States targets small-to-medium-sized businesses engaged in retail,
wholesale, service, contracting and other trades.  American States' 
commercial lines business includes a relatively low concentration of 
manufacturing and industrial operations.

Profit Improvement Program
Since embarking on a profit improvement program in 1991, American States has
repositioned its premium base to emphasize lines and geographic areas that
have greater potential for profitability.  American States' premium volume
decreased 16% from 1991 to 1995, with a positive impact on the segment's
combined ratio and underwriting income.  The Property-Casualty segment's
combined ratio has improved 7 points since 1991, while underwriting income has
improved by nearly $124 million.   

Automation Edge
American States is one of the few property-casualty insurers to fully 
automate policy production in both personal and commercial lines.  The 
result: It's easier and more economical for an agent to do business with 
American States.  The company uses knowledge-based systems in its claims 
operation and is implementing knowledge-based underwriting systems in its 
personal lines business.  American States also is developing knowledge-based
applications for selected commercial lines business.  The company's strides in
automation are enabling it to consolidate offices and more effectively
facilitate decision-making.

Outlook
American States is prepared to broaden its position in commercial and 
personal lines in 1996.  It will focus on the Midwest and Northwest, where 
its business is most profitable.  Additionally, American States will target 
marketing efforts in other states where the company's presence and a 
favorable environment give it potential for additional profitable growth. 
Finally, American States will continue to pursue reductions in operating 
expenses as its primary strategy to lower its combined ratio.

 -17-





  
Investment Management, conducted through Lincoln National Investment 
Companies ("LNIC"), reported income from operations of $14.7 million in 1995.
LNC has reported Investment Management as a separate business segment since
April 1995. 

Profile
Although newly established as a distinct business segment, investment 
management has long been an expertise within LNC.  Widely respected as an 
insurance risk manager, LNC has made a long-term commitment to expand its 
role in the financial services industry.  The establishment of Investment 
Management as LNC's fourth business segment is a strategic milestone in 
meeting LNC's objective to become a top-tier company in the financial 
services business.

LNIC is the holding company for the four companies that comprise the 
Investment Management segment.  These companies are: Lincoln Investment 
Management, Inc.; Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. ("Delaware"); Lynch  &
Mayer, Inc. and Vantage Global Advisors, Inc.  Lincoln Investment Management
is a fixed-income specialist, while the others focus primarily on equities.  

Complementary Approaches
All four companies operate autonomously and are encouraged to preserve their
distinctive investment styles and strengths.  Their diversity of skills,
styles and cultures serves to balance the segment's investment performance and
operating results.  The breadth of complementary investment styles employed by
our investment companies is a prudent way to diversify risks, especially in
today's sometimes uncertain and volatile investment markets. 

Lincoln Investment Management, based in Fort Wayne, Ind., is the investment
advisor for LNC's insurance operations and is best known as a manager of
fixed-income assets for insurance and pension clients. Lincoln Investment
Management specializes in fixed-income investments including public and
private debt, real estate debt and equity and asset/liability management.

Delaware, headquartered in Philadelphia, is best known for a conservative 
value investment style that focuses on stocks with above-average dividend 
yields.  Delaware is also recognized for its small-cap and mid-cap growth 

 -18-

investment styles and expertise in municipal and high-yield bonds.  Delaware's
London operation, which reported asset growth of 36% in 1995, adds to the
international expertise of LNIC.

Lynch & Mayer, based in New York City, pursues a growth investment style. 
Vantage Global Advisors, also based in New York, employs a proprietary 
quantitative model.

Assets Under Management
Seen as a whole, LNC's new segment already holds a significant presence in 
the investment management industry, especially in the institutional sector.
Combined assets under management exceed $76 billion, placing LNIC among the
largest investment managers in the United States.  Domestic institutional
assets represent 83% of the total.  Domestic retail mutual fund assets account
for 13%.  International equity and global bond assets managed by Delaware in
London represent 4%. 

Distribution
Multiple distribution channels enable LNIC to deliver a broad range of 
products to an expanding community of retail and institutional investors. 
Retail mutual funds are marketed through insurance agents, regional and 
national broker/dealers, financial planners and banks.  Institutional products
are sold primarily through pension consultants and directly to defined benefit
and defined contribution plan sponsors, endowments, foundations and insurance
companies.  Expanding and selectively integrating the Investment Management
segment's distribution networks is viewed as vital to achieving benchmark
growth and service. 

Investment Performance
The complementary blend of styles contributed to LNIC's solid investment 
performance in its debut year.  The composite returns of Vantage Global 
Advisors and Delaware scored in the top quartile of their peer groups of 
equity managers.  The Delaware mutual funds experienced several ranking 
upgrades in 1995.  They now include five retail funds with a ranking of four
or five stars from Morningstar, Inc., a service that assigns rankings from one
star at the lowest to five stars at the highest to mutual funds.

Lincoln Investment Management, LNIC's fixed-income advisor, had a composite
return of 21.1% in 1995.  This return outpaced the 20.4% return for a
comparative index of corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities. 
Delaware's value style produced strong results in the core equity  category --
a composite return of 37.3% that qualified as top-quartile  performance as
measured by the Callan Value Universe.  Delaware's international equity
composite return was 13.8%, which exceeded the 11.2% return for its
comparative MSCI EAFE Index.  Vantage Global Advisors' growth and income
equity style delivered a 37.0% return, exceeding the 34.6% top quartile
performance of the Morningstar Growth and Income Index.  This performance
earned Vantage Global Advisors a 10th-place ranking among 303 funds in the
Morningstar growth and income sector for 1995.  

Total Return Philosophy
As the investment manager for the LNC family of insurance companies, Lincoln
Investment Management follows a "total return" investment philosophy.  This
approach significantly differs from the "buy-and-hold" approach followed by
many insurance companies.  A buy-and-hold investor seeks to maximize current
income by selecting assets with high nominal yields.  As a total return
investor Lincoln Investment Management actively manages a broad range of asset
classes with an eye to optimizing total return on assets in conjunction with a
highly disciplined asset/liability management process.  This approach also
creates a value-added advantage for LNC. 

Outlook
Lincoln National Investment Companies will pursue three clear strategies to
achieve growth and long-term success: development of new products to meet the
needs of institutional and retail clients; capturing larger portions of
current target markets; and active exploration of synergies among LNIC's
autonomous entities and synergies with other LNC affiliates.

Growth in the retail mutual fund market is a priority.  New product 
introductions, consolidation of the Lincoln Advisor Funds with Delaware's 
family of mutual funds, enhancing and expanding distribution relationships 
and improving client service are just a few of the steps to achieve this 
growth. 

 -19-


The loss from operations shown above includes the earnings from LNC's
investment in an unconsolidated affiliate engaged in the employee life-health
benefits business (prior to the sale of this holding in October 1995, as
described in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 65),
certain other operations that are not directly related to the business
segments and unallocated corporate revenues and expenses (i.e., corporate
investment income, interest expense on short-term and long-term borrowings,
and corporate overhead expenses).

Corporate interest expense included within the LNC financing line above was
more for 1995 than 1994 as the result of additions to long-term debt (see
liquidity and cash flow discussion on page 31).

Net income (loss) shown above for "Other Operations" includes the items
described above under loss from operations plus the cumulative effect of the
1993 accounting change for the consolidated group of companies related to
postretirement benefits, the gain (loss) on sale of affiliates/operating
property (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 65) and
certain realized gain (loss) on sale of investments.

 -20-

REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION



REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS

As indicated in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" (see note 11
to the consolidated financial statements on page 65), LNC completed the sale
of a life insurance subsidiary and the sale of 71% of its direct writer of
employee life-health coverages in 1994.  As noted in the following "Review of
Consolidated Operations," these sales have affected the comparability of
select line items within the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Insurance Premiums
Life and annuity premiums decreased $144.1 million or 16% in 1995 compared
with 1994.  This decrease is the net result of an increase in business volume
from the Reinsurance segment (9% increase) being more than offset by a
decrease in volume from the U.S. portion of the Life Insurance and Annuities
segment (10% decrease) and a decrease from the United Kingdom component of the
Life Insurance and Annuities segment (51% decrease).  This decrease in the
United Kingdom component was the net result of 1) increases from the premiums
generated by the newly acquired U.K. companies (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65) and 2) decreases due to
modifying, on a prospective basis, the classification of premiums associated
with unit-linked transactions within Lincoln National (UK) to more closely
conform to the classification used for universal life transactions within the
U.S. operations.  As noted below, there is a corresponding decrease in life
and annuity benefits.  Prior period data was not reclassified because the
amounts involved are not material to consolidated revenue.  Excluding the
impact of the subsidiaries sold in 1994 (see note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 65), life and annuity premiums increased 22% in
1994.  This increase was the result of increases in the volume of transactions
in the Life Insurance and Annuities segment and Reinsurance segment.  Barring
the passage of unfavorable tax legislation that would eliminate the tax-advan-
tages for some of LNC's life and annuity products, LNC expects life and
annuity premium growth for its domestic operations in 1996.  The UK operations
should also experience growth in 1996 due to the results of companies acquired
in 1995 being included for the entire year.   

 -21-

Excluding the impact of the subsidiary sold in 1994 (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65), LNC's health premiums increased
$97.5 million or 14% in 1995 and $126.4 million or 22% in 1994 as the result
of increased volumes of business in the Reinsurance segment.    

Property-casualty premiums decreased 2% in 1995 and 7% in 1994.  These
decreases were the result of reevaluating underwriting actions, focusing on
account selection, risk evaluation and the establishment of appropriate
premiums.  The volume of premium that this segment will produce in 1996 is
dependent upon whether the pricing within the property-casualty insurance
market place allows price increases that are necessary to maintain and improve
profitability.

Insurance Fees
Insurance fees from universal life, other interest-sensitive life insurance
contracts and variable life insurance contracts increased $73.6 million or 16%
in 1995.  Excluding the impact of a life subsidiary sold in 1994 (see note 11
to the consolidated financial statements on page 65), insurance fees increased
$83.4 million or 22% in 1994.  The growth in fees from this business is
expected to continue in 1996.

Investment Advisory Fees
This line was added to the statements of income in the second quarter of 1995
following LNC's purchase of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. (see note 11 to
the consolidated financial statements on page 65).

Net Investment Income
Net investment income increased $274.4 million or 14% in 1995 as the net
result of a 14% increase in mean invested assets and a decrease in the yield
on investments from 7.14% to 7.05% (all calculations on a cost basis).  Net
investment income decreased $135.2 million or 6% in 1994.  This is the net
result of a 4% increase in mean invested assets less the impact of the overall
yield on investments dropping from 7.93% to 7.14%.  The increase in mean
invested assets for both years was the net result of increased volumes of
business in the Life Insurance and Annuities segment being partially offset by
reduced volumes of business in the Property-Casualty segment.  In addition,
the net investment income for 1994 from the proceeds from subsidiaries sold
was less than the net investment income previously earned on the invested
assets held by the subsidiaries that were sold (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65).

Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates
This line was added to the statements of income in 1994 to report the 
earnings from the remaining 29% ownership following LNC's sale of 71% of the
ownership of its primary writer of employee life-health benefit coverages (see
note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 65).  Due to the
October 1995 sale of the 29% ownership in this company, the future activity 
in this account will be minimal, as this holding represented the bulk of LNC's
unconsolidated affiliates (see note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 65).

Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments
Realized gain (loss) on investments in 1995 and 1994 was $215.6 million  and
$(130.8) million, respectively.  The gain (loss) in 1995 and 1994 was $136.4
million and $(88.7) million, net of related amortization and taxes,
respectively.  These gains and losses were the result of the sale of
investments, write-downs and provisions for losses.  The losses in 1994 were
the result of net realized investment gains being more than offset by 1)
realized investment losses and 2) writedowns of security investments and
provisions for losses for mortgage loans and real estate.  The investment
losses in 1994, primarily in the second and third quarters, were the result of
realizing investment losses to recover capital gains taxes paid in prior
years.

The write-downs of fixed maturity and equity securities in 1995 and 1994 were
recorded when the securities were deemed to have declines in value that were
other than temporary.  The fixed maturity securities to which these write-
downs apply were generally of investment grade quality at the time of purchase
but, with the exception of interest only mortgage-backed securities, were
classified as "below investment grade" at the time of the write-downs. 
Allowance for losses on mortgage loans on real estate, real estate and other 

 -22-

investments in 1995 and 1994 were established when the underlying value of the
property was deemed to be less than the carrying value.  The amount of these
write-downs and provisions for losses is disclosed within the notes to the
accompanying financial statements (see note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 45).

Gain (Loss) on Sale of Affiliates/Operating Property
In 1995, LNC recorded the gain on sale of the remaining 29% of the employee
life-health benefits company.  Also in 1995, LNC recorded a provision for the
expected loss related to its decision to sell certain of its operating
properties used in its Property-Casualty segment.  Finally, LNC recorded a
provision for the expected loss on the sale of an operating property used in
its Lincoln National (UK) operations.  In 1994, LNC recorded a gain on the
sale of 71% of its interest in its primary writer of employee life-health
benefits.  In 1993, LNC recorded a provision for loss on the sale of a life
insurance subsidiary.  See note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on
page 65 for additional information.

Other Revenue
Other revenue decreased $11.8 million or 7% in 1995.  This is the net result
of increases in the volume of transactions in the Life Insurance and Annuities
segment being more than offset by the absence of revenues from the investment
management companies that were recorded in this account until the start of the
new segment in the second quarter of 1995.  Excluding the impact of the
subsidiaries sold in 1994, other revenue increased 16% in 1994, when compared
to 1993, as a result of increases in the volume of transactions in the Life
Insurance and Annuities segment.

Insurance Benefits and Expenses
Life and annuity benefit and settlement expenses in 1995 decreased $92.3 
million or 4% when compared to 1994.  This decrease is the net result of an
increase of 6% from the U.S. portion of the Life Insurance and Annuity segment
and decreases of 2% from the Reinsurance segment and 60% from the United
Kingdom component of the Life Insurance and Annuities segment.  The decrease
in the United Kingdom component relates to the change in classification of
life and annuity premiums noted above.  Excluding the impact of the life
subsidiary sold in 1994 (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements
on page 65), life and annuity benefits and settlement expenses increased
$168.2 million or 8% in 1994 when compared to 1993.  This increase was the
result of increased volumes of business in the Life Insurance and Annuities
segment.  The increase in life and annuity benefits expense in 1996 is
expected to parallel the growth in life and annuity premiums.

Excluding the impact of the subsidiary sold in 1994 (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65), and the special addition to the
disability income reserves in 1995 (see note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 44), health benefits increased $92.7 million or 17% in 1995
as the result of increased volumes of business in the Reinsurance segment and
Life Insurance and Annuities segment.  Excluding the impact of the subsidiary
sold in 1994 (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page
65), health benefits increased $57.8 million or 12% in 1994.  This increase
was the result of increased volumes of business in the Reinsurance segment.  

Property-casualty benefits decreased by $53.0 million or 4% in 1995 compared
to 1994.  This decrease was the net result of moderate decreases in the volume
of business being partially offset by increases in catastrophe and storm
losses.  Property-casualty benefits decreased by $144.3 million or 10% in 1994
compared to 1993.  This decrease is the net result of reduced volumes of
insurance being partially offset by an increase in catastrophe and storm
losses.  Assuming an average catastrophe and storm loss year in 1996, the
increase in property-casualty benefits is expected to parallel the change in
property-casualty premiums.

Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other Expenses
Excluding the impact of the subsidiary sold in 1994 (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65), these expenses increased $349.8
million or 23.5% in 1995.  The primary driver behind this increase beyond the
general inflation rate was 1) the write-off of deferred acquisition costs
associated with the special additions to the disability reserves and 2) the
higher expenses in the Reinsurance segment and Life Insurance and Annuities
segment due to the increase in business volumes.  Also, the expenses for the 

 -23-

Property-Casualty segment for 1995 included $21.0 million related to the
expected expenses, primarily severance compensation, to consolidate 20
divisional operations into four regional operations.  Other than this special
expense item, the expenses for the Property-Casualty segment were essentially
flat with a year ago as staff levels were adjusted to the current level of
business.  Excluding the impact of the various subsidiaries sold, these
expenses decreased $35.4 million or 2% in 1994 when compared to 1993.  This
decrease was the net result of lower expenses in the Property-Casualty segment
and lower volume related expenses in the Reinsurance segment being partially
offset by increases in the Life Insurance and Annuities segment.  In 1996, all
business  segments will continue to adjust staff levels as appropriate to
match business volumes.  

Interest Expense
Interest expense increased $23.0 million or 47% in 1995.  This was the result
of increases in the average debt outstanding less the impact of changes in the
composition of debt outstanding.  The higher outstanding debt relates to the
acquisitions of additional companies (see note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 65).  The additional leverage created by these
acquisitions resulted in a one step downgrade in LNC's debt ratings.  Standard
and Poor's changed its rating from A+ ("Exceptional or Superior") to A
("Excellent") and Moody's changed its rating from A1 to A2 (both "Very Good,
Strong or High").  Interest expense increased $5.2 million or 12% in 1994. 
This increase was the net result of higher average debt outstanding and higher
interest rates on debt outstanding being partially offset by the reduction in
interest expense which resulted from the calling of the 8% notes (due in 1997)
in March 1994.  Although partially dependent on the level of short-term
interest rates, interest expense is expected to be higher in 1996 than in 1995
due to a full year of interest on debt issued or assumed in April 1995 in
connection with the acquisition of additional companies.

Federal Income Taxes 
Federal income taxes increased $118.0 million in 1995.  This increase was the
result of higher pre-tax earnings and the fact that 1994 taxes were lower
because no tax expense was recorded on the 1994 gain on sale of 71% of its
direct writer of employee life-health benefit coverages (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65).  LNC's Federal income taxes
decreased $146.1 million in 1994 compared to 1993.  This decrease was
primarily the result of lower pre-tax earnings in 1994 and the lack of tax
expense on the gain on sale of 71% of its direct writer of employee life-
health benefit coverages in 1994.  An additional item affecting this
comparison is the fact that LNC did not receive a tax benefit from the loss on
sale of a life insurance subsidiary in 1993.  The reduction in pre-tax
earnings in 1994 is the result of the absence of earnings from subsidiaries
sold (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 65) and the
realization of losses on the sale of investments during 1994 versus the
realization of gains on investments in 1993.  The tax benefits from the
realized losses result from the carryback of such losses to realized gains
recognized in prior years.  

Summary
Net income for 1995 was $482.2 million compared with $349.9 million in 1994. 
Excluding realized gain (loss) on investments and gain on sale of
affiliates/operating property, LNC earned $306.5 million for 1995 compared to
$389.8 million in 1994.  This decrease is the net result of increased earnings
in the Life Insurance and Annuities segment and Investment Management segment
being more than offset by decreases within the Reinsurance and Property-
Casualty segments.  Excluding the special additions to the disability income
reserves (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 44) and
the after-tax impact of expenses associated with realignment of division
offices in the Property-Casualty segment, LNC earned $441.8 million for 1995.  
Net income for 1994 was $349.9 million compared with $318.9 million in 1993. 
Excluding realized gain (loss) on investments, gain (loss) on sale of
affiliates/operating property and the cumulative effect of implementing the
postretirement accounting change in 1993, all net of taxes, LNC earned $389.8
million for 1994 compared to $343.5 million in 1993.  All the business
segments contributed to this increase.  

 -24-

REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION
                                    
Investments
The investment portfolio, excluding cash and invested cash, is comprised of 
fixed maturity securities; equities; mortgage loans on real estate; real
estate, either wholly owned or joint ventures; and other long-term
investments.  LNC purchases investments for its segmented portfolios which
have yield, duration and other characteristics that take into account the
liabilities of the products being supported.  The total investment portfolio
increased $5.0 billion in 1995.  This increase was the result of increases in
the fair value of securities available-for-sale, the addition of the
investment portfolios of the companies acquired in 1995 (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65) and by new purchases of
investments from cash flow generated by the business units.

LNC maintains a high-quality fixed maturity securities portfolio.  As of 
December 31, 1995, $11.5 billion or 45.7% of its fixed maturity securities
portfolio had ratings of AA or better and only $1.6 billion or 6.1% had
ratings below investment grade (BB or less) (see note 3 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 46).  The below investment grade fixed maturity
securities represent only 4.9% of LNC's total investment portfolio.  The
interest rates available on these below investment grade securities are
significantly higher than are available on other corporate debt securities. 
Also, the risk of loss due to default by the borrower is significantly greater
with respect to such below investment grade securities because these
securities are generally unsecured, often subordinated to other creditors of
the issuer and issued by companies that usually have high levels of
indebtedness.  LNC attempts to minimize the risks associated with these below
investment grade securities by limiting the exposure to any one issuer and by
closely monitoring the credit worthiness of such issuers.  For the year ended
December 31, 1995, the aggregate cost of such investments purchased was $1.0
billion.  Aggregate proceeds from such investments sold were $768.8 million,
resulting in a realized pre-tax gain (loss) at the time of sale of ($14.9)
million.

LNC's entire fixed maturity and equity securities portfolio is classified as
"available-for-sale" and is carried at fair value.  Changes in fair values,
net of related deferred acquisition costs, amounts required to satisfy
policyholder commitments and taxes, are charged or credited directly to
shareholders' equity.  Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements (see
page 45) shows the gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 1995.

LNC's fixed maturity securities available-for-sale include mortgage-backed
securities.  The mortgage-backed securities included in LNC's investment
portfolio are subject to risks associated with variable prepayments or delayed
repayments.  This may result in these securities having a different actual
cash flow and maturity than planned at the time of purchase.  Securities that
have an amortized cost greater than par which are backed by mortgages that
prepay faster than expected will incur a reduction in yield or a loss.  Those
securities that have an amortized cost lower than par that prepay faster than
expected will generate an increase in yield or a gain.  Repayments occurring
slower than expected have the opposite impact.  The degree to which a security
is susceptible to either gains or losses is influenced by the difference
between its amortized cost and par, the relative sensitivity of the underlying
mortgages backing the assets to prepayment or delayed repayments in a changing
interest rate environment and the repayment priority of the securities in the
overall securitization structure.

LNC limits the extent of its risk on mortgage-backed securities by generally
avoiding securities whose cost significantly exceeds par, by purchasing
securities which are backed by stable collateral, and by concentrating on
securities with enhanced priority in their trust structure.  Such securities
with reduced risk typically have a lower yield (but higher liquidity) than
higher-risk mortgage-backed securities.  At selected times, higher-risk
securities may be purchased if they do not compromise the safety of the
general portfolio.  At December 31, 1995, LNC did not have a significant
amount of higher-risk mortgage-backed securities.  There are negligible
default risks in the mortgage-backed securities portfolio as a whole as the
vast majority of the assets are either guaranteed by U.S. government-sponsored
entities or are supported in the securitization structure by junior securities
enabling the assets to achieve high investment grade status.  See note 3 to
the consolidated financial statements on page 46 for additional detail about
the underlying collateral.  


 -25-

As of December 31, 1995, mortgage loans on real estate and investments in real
estate represented 10.0% and 2.4% of the total investment portfolio.  As of
December 31, 1995, the underlying properties supporting the mortgage loans on
real estate consisted of 21.2% in commercial office buildings, 28.6% in retail
stores, 21.0% in apartments, 14.2% in industrial buildings, 5.0% in
hotels/motels and 10.0% in other.  In addition to the dispersion by type of
property, the mortgage loan portfolio is geographically diversified throughout
the United States. 

Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates
This line was added to the balance sheet in 1994 following LNC's sale of 71%
of the ownership of its primary writer of employee life-health coverages.  The
decrease in this balance at December 31, 1995 is due to the October 1995 sale
of the remaining 29% ownership in this company.  See note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65. 
 
Cash and Invested Cash
Cash and invested cash increased by $531.3 million in 1995.  This increase is
the result of a portion of the operating cash flow being invested temporarily
in short-term investments pending the placement of funds in longer term
investments. 

Assets Held in Separate Accounts 
This asset account, as well as the corresponding liability account, increased
by $8.5 billion, reflecting the acquisition of a United Kingdom company (see
note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 65) and a continued
increase in annuity and pension funds under management for all existing
companies.

Federal Income Taxes 
Federal income taxes payable at December 31, 1995 of $128.4 million compares
to Federal income taxes recoverable of $396.9 million at December 31, 1994. 
This change is the net result of 1) a decrease in the recoverable deferred
taxes applicable to the increase in unrealized gains on available-for-sale
securities and 2) the receipt of a tax refund of $147.4 million in the first
quarter of 1995, which resulted from the realization of capital losses in 1994
to recover capital gains taxes paid in prior years, being partially offset by
increases related to recoverable deferred taxes from life insurance reserve
differences, discounting of unpaid losses, additions to the investment
reserves and the absence of a valuation allowance at December 31, 1995. 
Federal income taxes recoverable at December 31, 1994 of $396.9 million
represents a change of $547.9 million compared to the Federal income taxes
payable at December 31, 1993.  This is primarily the result of recoverable
deferred taxes applicable to LNC's available-for-sale securities which were in
an unrealized loss position at December 31, 1994 compared to an unrealized
gain position at December 31, 1993.  Other factors affecting this change
relate to deferred taxes from life insurance reserve differences, discounting
of unpaid losses, changes in investment reserves and postretirement
obligations, and the current taxes recoverable related to the realization of
losses on securities during 1994.  A significant portion of the deferred tax
benefits related to the December 31, 1994, unrealized loss on securities was
not recognized due to the establishment of a valuation allowance (see note 4
to the consolidated financial statements on page 49).

Amounts Recoverable from Reinsurers
The increase in amounts recoverable from reinsurers was the result of an
increased volume of business ceded in the Life Insurance and Annuities
segment.

Goodwill
The increase in goodwill in 1995 relates to LNC's acquisition of additional
operating businesses in 1995.  Goodwill decreased $82.8 million in 1994 
primarily as a result of the sale of subsidiaries during 1994.  See note 11 to
the consolidated financial statements on page 65.  

Other Intangible Assets
The increase in this balance sheet account in 1995 relates to LNC's
acquisition of additional operating businesses (see note 11 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 65).

 -26-

Other Assets
The increase in other assets of $315.0 million is the result of having a
higher receivable related to investment securities sold in the last few days
of 1995 versus the end of 1994.

Total Liabilities
Total liabilities increased by $13.1 billion in 1995.  This increase reflects
1) an increase in business activity as evidenced by an increase in policy
liabilities and accruals of $2.4 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion in
contractholder funds and an increase of $8.5 billion in the liabilities
related to separate accounts, 2) an increase in debt of $251.3 million and 3)
an increase in all other liabilities of $409.7 million.  

Policy liabilities at December 31, 1995 and 1994 included liabilities for
environmental claims of $256 million and $201 million, respectively.  At
December 31, 1995 and 1994, these amounts include approximately $127 million
and $81 million of reserve for claims that have been incurred but not reported
and approximately $43 million and $37 million of related claim expenses,
respectively.  Because of the limited coverages that have been written by LNC,
these environmental claims represent only 10% of LNC's total property-casualty
policy liabilities (3% based on claim counts of direct business) and less than
2% of LNC's total policy liabilities.  Paid environmental claims and claim
expenses totalled approximately $15.5 million in 1995 compared with
approximately $15.0 million in 1994.  

The percentages and amounts referenced above are at these levels due to LNC's
concentration on writing coverages for small to medium-size companies rather
than the larger companies that tend to incur most of the environmental and
product liability claims.  LNC's management challenges environmental claims in
cases of questionable liability and reviews the level of the environmental
liabilities on an on-going basis to help insure that the liability maintained
is adequate. Nonetheless, establishing liabilities for environmental claims is
subject to significant uncertainties because of the long reporting delays,
lack of historical data and the unresolved complex legal and regulatory issues
that are involved (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on page
56).  However, based on available information, it is management's judgement
that the appropriate level of liabilities have been recorded and that any
unrecorded liability would not be material to LNC's future results of
operations, liquidity or financial condition.

The increase in other liabilities relates to an increase in the expected
payouts for security investments purchased in the last few days of 1995 versus
a lower volume of such transactions late in 1994.  

Shareholders' Equity
Total shareholders' equity increased $1.3 billion during the year ended
December 31, 1995.  Excluding the increase of $1.0 billion related to net
unrealized gain (loss) on securities available-for-sale, shareholders' equity
increased $326.8 million.  This increase in shareholders' equity was the net
result of increases due to $482.2 million of net income, $24.1 million from
the issuance of common stock related to benefit plans, $6.5 million related to
an increase in the accumulated foreign exchange gain and a decrease of $186.0
million related to the declaration of dividends to shareholders.  

Capital adequacy is a primary measure used by insurance regulators to
determine the financial stability of an insurance company.  In the U.S., risk-
based capital guidelines are used by the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners to determine the amount of capital that represents minimum
acceptable operating amounts related to insurance and investment risks. 
Regulatory action is triggered when an insurer's statutory-basis capital falls
below the formula-produced capital level.  At December 31, 1995, statutory-
basis capital for each of LNC's U.S. life and property-casualty insurance
subsidiaries was substantially in excess of regulatory action levels of risk-
based capital required by the jurisdiction of domicile except for one
property-casualty company which is involved in servicing a closed block of
business.

As noted above, shareholders' equity includes net unrealized gain (loss) on
securities available-for-sale.  At December 31, 1995, the book value of $41.89
per share included $6.68 of unrealized gains on securities and at December 31,
1994 the book value of $29.35 per share included $3.00 of unrealized losses on
securities. 

 -27-

Gains or losses, whether realized or unrealized, on securities that support
long-term life insurance, pension and annuity contracts are expected to be
applied to contract benefits.  Net income and shareholders' equity now
include, respectively, realized and unrealized gains and losses on securities,
part of which will be used in determining contract benefits.  Current
accounting standards do not require or permit adjustment of policyholder
reserves to recognize the full effect of these realized and unrealized gains
and losses on future benefit payments in the absence of a contractual 
obligation requiring their attribution to policyholders.

Market Risk Exposures of Financial Instruments

Asset-Liability Context.  LNC analyzes and manages the risks arising from
market exposures of financial instruments, as well as other risks, in an
integrated asset-liability context, taking diversification into account.  By
aggregating the potential effect of market and other risks of the entire
enterprise, LNC estimates and manages the risk to its earnings and shareholder
value.  The risks of market exposures of financial instruments, and the
related risk management processes, are most important in the Life Insurance
and Annuities segment, where most of the invested assets support accumulation
and investment oriented insurance products.  Additional market exposures exist
in LNC's other general account insurance products and in its debt structure
and derivatives positions.  The primary sources of market risk are
substantial, relatively rapid and sustained increases or decreases in interest
rates, a period of greater than normal default experience, and a sharp drop in
equity market values, as discussed below.  Specific market risk exposures as
they relate to derivatives is included in the Derivatives section of
Management's Discussion and Analysis on page 29. 

Accumulation and Investment Oriented Insurance Products.  General account
assets supporting accumulation and investment oriented insurance products
total $21 billion or 66% of total invested assets.  With respect to these
products, LNC seeks to earn a stable and profitable spread between investment
income and interest credited to account values.  If LNC has adverse experience
on investments that cannot be passed through to customers, its spreads are
reduced.  The interest rate scenarios of concern are those in which there is a
substantial, relatively rapid, increase or decrease in interest rates which is
then sustained over a long period. 

Assets of $13 billion supports the biggest category of accumulation and
investment oriented insurance products, fixed deferred annuities.  For these
products, LNC may adjust renewal crediting rates monthly or annually subject
to guaranteed minimums ranging from 3.0% to 4.5%. The higher minimums apply
to in-force blocks of older products that no longer are sold.  LNC has $2.5
billion in assets supporting universal life insurance on which it has the
right to adjust renewal crediting rates subject to guaranteed minimums ranging
from 4% to 5% at December 31, 1995.  Annuity and universal life insurance
customers have the right to surrender their policies at account value less a
surrender charge that grades to zero over periods ranging from 5 to 10 years
from policy issue date or, in some cases, the date of each premium received.


LNC also has assets totaling $5.5 billion supporting guaranteed interest
contracts, pension buy-out annuities and immediate annuities. Generally, the
cash flows expected on these liabilities do not vary with fluctuations in
market interest rates and are not adjustable by LNC. Accordingly, if
experience on the assets supporting these products is more adverse than the
assumptions used in pricing the products, spreads will tend to be below
expectations.  LNC limits exposure to interest rate risk by managing the
duration and maturity structure of each investment portfolio in relation to 
the liabilities it supports.  

Other General Account Insurance Products.  LNC also has $11 billion of assets
supporting general account products, including disability income, property
casualty insurance and term life insurance.  For these products, the liability
cash flows may have actuarial uncertainty but their amounts and timing do not
vary significantly with interest rates.  LNC limits interest rate risk by
analyzing the duration of the projected cash flows and structuring investment
portfolios with similar durations.
 
 -28-

Debt.  LNC has short-term and long-term debt of which $768.8 million is at
fixed rates and $316.9 million is at floating rates.  LNC manages the timing
of maturities and the mixture of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt as part of
the process of integrated management of interest rate risk for the entire
enterprise.

Interest Rate Risk--Falling Rates.  After rising in 1994, interest rates fell
in 1995.  For example, the  five-year Treasury yield rose from 5.2% to 7.8% in
1994 and fell back to 5.4% in 1995.  Under scenarios in which interest rates
continue falling and remain at levels significantly lower than those
prevailing at December 31, 1995, minimum guarantees on annuity and universal
life insurance policies could cause spreads to deteriorate.  The earned rate
on the annuity and universal life insurance portfolios averaged 7.8% and 7.9%,
respectively, at December 31, 1995, providing a cushion for further decline
before the earned rates would be insufficient to cover minimum guaranteed
rates plus the target spread.  The maturity structure and call provisions of
the related portfolios are structured to afford protection against erosion of
this cushion for a period of time, but spreads would be at risk if interest
rates continued to fall and remained lower for a long period.  LNC manages
these exposures by maintaining a suitable maturity structure and by limiting
its exposure to call risk in each respective investment portfolio.

Exposure to call risk was reduced in 1995, principally by reducing exposure to
mortgage-backed securities ("MBS").  LNC  believes that the portfolios
supporting its accumulation and investment oriented insurance products have a
prudent degree of call protection in the context of each category of liability
as well as on a consolidated basis. The MBS portion of the portfolio,
including collateralized mortgage obligations ("CMOs"), represents a total of
$4.8 billion or 23% of the $21 billion of general account assets supporting
such products.  LNC's MBS portfolio has better call protection than the MBS
pass-through market in general because of its 55% concentration in protected
amortization class CMOs.  Of $15 billion in corporate obligations, only $.7
billion or 4%, are subject to call.

Interest Rate Risk--Rising Rates.  For both annuities and universal life
insurance, a rapid and sustained rise in interest rates poses risks of
deteriorating spreads and high surrenders.  The portfolios supporting these
products have fixed-rate assets laddered over maturities generally ranging
from one to 10 years or more.  Accordingly, the earned rate on each portfolio
lags behind changes in market yields.  As rates rise, the lag may be increased
by slowing of MBS prepayments.  The greater and faster the rise in interest
rates, the more the earned rate will tend to lag behind market rates.  If LNC
sets renewal crediting rates to earn the desired spread, the gap between its
renewal crediting rates and competitors' new money rates may be wide enough to
cause increased surrenders.  If it credits more competitive renewal rates to
limit surrenders, its spreads will narrow.  LNC devotes extensive effort to
evaluating these risks by simulating asset and liability cash flows for a wide
range of interest rate scenarios.  Such analysis has led to adjustments in the
target maturity structure and to hedging the risk of rising rates by buying
out-of-the-money interest rate cap agreements (see Derivatives section of
Management's Discussion and Analysis on page 29).  With this hedge, the
potential adverse impact of a sustained rise in rates is kept within corporate
risk tolerances.  LNC believes that the risks of rising interest rates are
also mitigated by its emphasis on periodic premium products.

Default Risk.  In assessing the risk that the rate of default losses for each
category of asset may be worse than the rates assumed in pricing its products,
LNC considers the entire $32 billion portfolio of invested assets, taking
diversification into account.  Of this total, $15.2 billion are corporate
bonds and $3.2 billion are commercial mortgages.  LNC manages the risk of
adverse default experience on these investments by applying disciplined credit
evaluation and underwriting standards, prudently limiting allocations to
lower-quality, higher-yielding investments, and diversifying exposures by
issuer, industry, region and property type.  For each counter-party or
borrowing entity and its affiliates, LNC's exposures from all transactions are
aggregated and managed in relation to formal limits set by rating quality and
industry group.  LNC remains exposed to occasional adverse cyclical economic
downturns during which default rates may be significantly higher than the
long-term historical average used in pricing.


 -29-

Equity Market Exposures.  At December 31, 1995, LNC owned equities consisting
of $1.2 billion of common stocks, $776 million of real estate, and $100
million of other equity interests.  While LNC invests in these categories with
the expectation of achieving higher returns than would be available in its
core fixed-income investments, the returns on, and values of, these equity
investments are subject to somewhat greater market risk than its fixed income
investments.  

The fee revenues of LNC's Investment Management segment and fees earned from
variable annuities are exposed to the risk of a decline in the equity market
values.  Investment advisory fees are generally a fixed percentage of the
market value of assets under management.  In a severe equity market decline,
fee income could be reduced by not only reduced market valuations but also by
customer withdrawals.  Such withdrawals from equity funds and accounts might
be offset, in part, by transfers to LNC's fixed-income accounts and through
the transfer of funds to LNC by customers from competitors.

Derivatives
As indicated in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements (see page 58),
LNC has entered into derivative transactions to reduce its exposure to
interest rate fluctuations, the widening of bond yield spreads over comparable
maturity U.S. Government obligations and foreign exchange risk.  A discussion
of LNC's five significant programs using derivative agreements and contracts
follows.  All these programs are used within the Life Insurance and Annuities
segment except for the foreign exchange risk on an investment in a foreign
subsidiary which is used within Other Operations.

1) LNC uses interest rate cap agreements to hedge against the negative impact
of a significant and sustained rise in interest rates.  Interest rate caps are
contracts that require counterparties to pay LNC at specified future dates the
amount, if any, by which a specified market interest rate exceeds the cap rate
stated in the agreements, applied to a notional amount.  As of December 31,
1995, LNC had agreements with notional amounts of $5.1 billion with cap rates
ranging from 138 to 498 basis points above prevailing interest rates.  These
agreements expire in 1997 - 2003.  The cap rates in some contracts increase
over time.

The revenue that LNC receives from interest rate caps depends on the future
levels of interest rates on U.S. Treasury securities with maturities of two,
five, seven and 10 years; U.S. dollar swap rates for similar maturities; and
the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").  The table below analyzes the
amount of cap revenue LNC would receive if those rates were 1%, 2%, 3%, or 4%
higher than they were at December 31, 1995 and remain at those levels
throughout the remaining lives of the caps owned by LNC.  In relation to the
level of these rates at December 31, 1995, the cap rates were from 1.38% to
4.98% out of the money, i.e., higher.  Revenue from interest rate caps under
these scenarios is as follows:



2) LNC uses spread-lock agreements to hedge a portion of the value of its
fixed maturity securities against the risk of widening in the spreads between
their yields and the yields of comparable maturity U.S. Government
obligations.  The actual risk being hedged is the potential widening of bond
spreads that would be caused by widening swap spreads.  Under each of these
agreements, LNC assumes the right and the obligation to enter into an interest
rate swap at a future date in which LNC would pay a fixed rate equal to a
contractually specified spread over the yield of a specified U.S. Treasury
security and receive a floating rate.  As of December 31, 1995, LNC had
spread-lock agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $600 million with
10 years remaining in the exercise periods.  


 -30-

Over the past five years, swap spreads have typically traded within an annual
range of 30 basis points, i.e., a range of plus or minus 15 basis points
around the mean level. At December 31, 1995, the cash-settlement value of the
spread locks would have changed by approximately $5.0 million for each 15
basis point change in swap spreads.

3) LNC uses exchange-traded financial futures contracts and options on
financial futures to hedge against interest rate risks and to manage duration
of a portion of its fixed maturity securities.  Financial futures contracts
obligate LNC to buy or sell a financial instrument at a specified future date
for a specified price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the
financial instrument.  Cash settlements on the change in market values of
financial futures contracts are made daily.  Put options on a financial
futures contract give LNC the right, but not the obligation, to assume a long
or short position in the underlying futures contract at a specified price
during a specified time period.  

At December 31, 1995, LNC had long positions in the March 1996 five year note,
10 year note, and bond futures with an aggregate face amount of $106.7
million.  As the yields on the underlying Treasury securities rise (fall), the
value of these long positions to LNC will decrease (increase) by approximately
$.9 million for each 10 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve.  

4) LNC uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge against foreign
exchange risk related to LNC's investment in its foreign subsidiary, Lincoln
National (UK).  The foreign exchange forward contracts obligate LNC to deliver
a specified amount of currency at a future date at a specified exchange rate.  

The value of the foreign exchange forward contracts at any given point
fluctuate according to the underlying level of exchange rate and interest rate
differentials.  At December 31, 1995, LNC had contracts in place with 
notional amounts of $398.8 million.  Assuming no difference in the underlying
interest rates, the value of these contracts will rise (fall) by approximately
$4.0 million for each 1% change in the exchange rate.

5) LNC uses a combination of foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign
currency options, and foreign currency swaps to hedge some of the foreign
exchange risk related to its investments in fixed maturity securities
denominated in foreign currencies.  The foreign currency forward contracts
obligate LNC to deliver a specified amount of currency at a future date at a
specified exchange rate.  As of December 31, 1995, LNC had a short position in
foreign exchange forward contracts with a notional amount of $15.7 million.

Foreign currency options give LNC the right, but not the obligation, to buy or
sell a foreign currency at a specific exchange rate during a specified time
period.  At December 31, 1995, LNC had a long position in foreign currency
options with a notional amount of $99.2 million.

A foreign currency swap is a contractual agreement to exchange the currencies
of two different countries pursuant to an agreement to re-exchange the two
currencies at the same rate of exchange at a specified future date.  As of
December 31, 1995, LNC had a foreign currency swap with a notional amount of
$15 million.

The value of the foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency options and
foreign currency swaps, which are used to reduce the risk of reduction of the
value in U.S. dollars of investments denominated in foreign currencies that
might result from an adverse change in currency exchange rates, fluctuate
according to the underlying level of exchange rates.  At December 31, 1995,
LNC had notional amounts of contracts in place of $129.9 million.  If the U.S.
dollar were to appreciate (depreciate) 1% in relation to each of the
currencies involved in these contracts, the value of these positions would 
rise (fall) by $1.3 million.


 -31-

The first three programs discussed above are designed to help LNC achieve more
stable margins while providing competitive crediting rates to policyholders
during periods when interest rates are rising or corporate bond spreads are
widening.  Failure to maintain competitive crediting rates could result in
policyholders withdrawing their funds for placement in more competitive
products.  The other two programs discussed above are designed to reduce LNC's
risk related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

LNC is depending on the ability of derivative product dealers and their
guarantors to honor their obligations to pay the contract amounts under
interest rate cap agreements and other over-the-counter derivative products
such as spread-lock agreements, foreign currency exchange contracts, foreign
currency options and foreign currency swaps.  In order to minimize the risk of
default losses, LNC diversifies its exposures among several dealers and limits
the amount of exposure in accordance with the credit rating of each dealer or
its guarantor.  With the exception of one cap agreement counterparty, at
December 31, 1995, the dealers providing interest rate caps or their
guarantors were rated single A or better by Standard & Poors and Moody's.  In
fact, 84% of the notional amount of caps were from dealers which, giving
effect to guarantees, were rated AA or better by those agencies.  One
counterparty with an aggregate notional amount of $500 million and an
aggregate replacement value of approximately $.1 million, had its rating
lowered from A3 to Baa1 by one of the major rating agencies during 1995.  This
counterparty continues to hold an A rating from another major rating agency. 

In addition to continuing existing programs, LNC may use derivative products
in other strategies to limit risk and enhance returns, particularly in the
management of investment spread businesses.  LNC has established policies,
guidelines and internal control procedures for the use of derivatives as tools
to enhance management of the overall portfolio of risks assumed in LNC's
operations.


LIQUIDITY AND CASH FLOW
Liquidity refers to the ability of an enterprise to generate adequate amounts
of cash from its normal operations to meet cash requirements with a prudent
margin of safety.  Because of the interval of time from receipt of a deposit
or premium until payment of benefits or claims, LNC and other insurers employ
investment portfolios as an integral element of operations.  By segmenting its
investment portfolios along product lines, LNC enhances the focus and
discipline it can apply to managing the liquidity as well as the interest rate
and credit risk of each portfolio commensurate with the profile of the
liabilities.  For example, portfolios backing products with less certain cash
flows and/or withdrawal provisions are kept more liquid than portfolios
backing products with more predictable cash flows.

The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows on page 39 indicate that operating 
activities provided cash of $1.9 billion, $1.2 billion and $.8 billion in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  This statement also classifies the other
sources and uses of cash by investing activities and financing activities and
discloses the amount of cash available at the end of the year to meet LNC's
obligations.

Although LNC generates adequate cash flow to meet the needs of its normal 
operations, periodically LNC may issue debt or equity securities to fund 
internal expansion, acquisitions, investment opportunities and the retirement
of LNC's debt and equity.  In 1995, LNC filed a shelf registration for $600   
million with the Securities and Exchange Commission that would allow LNC to
issue debt or equity securities.  This registration included an aggregate of
$100 million of securities which had not been utilized from a 1994
registration.  Also, cash funds are available from LNC's revolving credit
agreement which provides for borrowing up to $500 million (see note 5 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 51).

Transactions such as those described in the preceding paragraph that occurred
recently included the issuance of $200 million in debt in May 1995.  Proceeds
from this offering were used to pay down short-term debt that had been
incurred in April 1995 related to the acquisition of additional operating
businesses (see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements on page 65). 


 -32-

In order to maximize the use of available cash, the holding company (Lincoln 
National Corporation) maintains a facility where subsidiaries can borrow from
the holding company to meet their short-term needs and can invest their 
short-term funds with the holding company.  Depending on the overall cash 
availability or need, the holding company invests excess cash in short-term 
investments or borrows funds in the external financial markets.  In addition 
to facilitating the management of cash, the holding company receives dividends
from its subsidiaries, invests in operating companies, maintains an investment
portfolio and pays shareholder dividends and certain corporate expenses.



The table above shows the cash flow activity for the holding company from 
1993 through 1995.  The line, "net tax receipts from (payments to)
subsidiaries", recognizes that the holding company receives tax payments from
subsidiaries, pays the consolidated tax liability and reimburses subsidiaries
for the tax effect of any taxable operating and capital losses.

LNC's insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain insurance department
regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payments of dividends
to the holding company (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on
page 56).  However, these restrictions pose no short-term liquidity concerns
for the holding company.  The financial strength and stability of the
subsidiaries permit ready access to short-term or long-term credit sources for
the holding company.

Effect of Inflation
As indicated earlier in this review of consolidated operations, inflation 
affects LNC's revenues and expenses.  LNC's insurance affiliates, as well as 
other companies in the insurance industry, attempt to minimize the effect of 
inflation by anticipating inflationary trends in the pricing of their 
products.  Inflation, except for changes in interest rates, does not have a
significant effect on LNC's balance sheet due to the minimal amount of dollars
invested in property, plant and equipment and the absence of inventories.


 -33-



Consolidated Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements of Lincoln National Corporation and 
Subsidiaries follow on pages 34 through 66.

 -34-



See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 40 - 65.



 -35-



See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 40 - 65.




 -36-





See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 40 - 65.


 -37-



See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 40 - 65.

 -38-


                                                        

See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 40 - 65.    

 -39-



See notes to the consolidated financial statements on pages 40 - 65.

 -40-

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation.  The accompanying consolidated financial statements
include Lincoln National Corporation ("LNC") and its majority-owned
subsidiaries.  Through subsidiary companies, LNC operates multiple insurance
and investment management businesses.  Operations are divided into four
business segments (see note 9 on page 62).  Less than majority-owned entities
in which LNC has at least a 20% interest are reported on the equity basis. 
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

Use of Estimates.  The nature of the insurance and investment management
businesses requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying
notes.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Investments.  LNC classifies its fixed maturity and equity securities (common
and non-redeemable preferred stocks) as available-for-sale and, accordingly,
such securities are carried at fair value.  The cost of fixed maturity
securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and discounts.  The cost
of fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for declines in value that
are other than temporary.  

For the mortgage-backed securities portion of the fixed maturity securities
portfolio, LNC recognizes income using a constant effective yield based on
anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities. 
When estimates of prepayments change, the effective yield is recalculated to
reflect actual payments to date and anticipated future payments.  The net
investment in the securities is adjusted to the amount that would have existed
had the new effective yield been applied since the acquisition of the
securities.  This adjustment is reflected in net investment income.

Mortgage loans on real estate are carried at the outstanding principal
balances less unaccrued discounts and net of reserves for declines that are
other than temporary.  Investment real estate is carried at cost less
allowances for depreciation. Such real estate is carried net of reserves for
declines in value that are other than temporary.  Real estate acquired through
foreclosure proceedings is recorded at fair value on the settlement date which
establishes a new cost basis.  If a subsequent periodic review of a foreclosed
property indicates the fair value, less estimated costs to sell, is lower than
the carrying value at the settlement date, the carrying value is adjusted to
the lower amount.  Policy loans are carried at aggregate unpaid balances.  
Any changes to the reserves for mortgage loans on real estate and real estate
are reported as realized gain (loss) on investments.

Cash and invested cash are carried at cost and include all highly liquid debt
instruments purchased with a maturity of three months or less.

Realized gain (loss) on investments is recognized in net income, net of
related amortization of deferred acquisition costs, using the specific
identification method.  Changes in the fair values of securities carried at
fair value are reflected directly in shareholders' equity after deductions for
related adjustments for deferred acquisition costs and amounts required to
satisfy policyholder commitments that would have been recorded if these
securities would have been sold at their fair value, and after deferred taxes
or credits to the extent deemed recoverable.

Derivatives.  LNC hedges certain portions of its exposure to interest rate
fluctuations, the widening of bond yield spreads over comparable maturity U.S.
Government obligations and foreign exchange risk by entering into derivative
transactions.  A description of LNC's accounting for its hedge of such risks
is discussed in the following two paragraphs. 

The premium paid for an interest rate cap is deferred and amortized to net
investment income on a straight-line basis over the term of the interest rate
cap.  Any settlement received in accordance with the terms of the interest
rate caps is recorded as investment income.  Spread-lock agreements, interest
rate swaps and financial futures which hedge fixed maturity securities
available-for-sale, are carried at fair value with the change in fair value

 -41-

reflected directly in shareholders' equity.  Realized gain (loss) from the
settlement of such derivatives is deferred and amortized over the life of the
hedged assets as an adjustment to the yield.  Foreign exchange forward
contracts, which hedge LNC's investment in its foreign subsidiary, Lincoln
National (UK), are carried at fair value with the change in fair value and
realized gain (loss) on such contracts reflected directly in the foreign
currency translation adjustment component of shareholders' equity.  Foreign
exchange forward contracts, foreign currency options and foreign currency
swaps, which hedge some of the foreign exchange risk of investments in fixed
maturity securities denominated in foreign currencies, are carried at fair
value with the change in fair value reflected in earnings.  Realized gain
(loss) from the settlement of such derivatives is also reflected in earnings.  

Hedge accounting is applied as indicated above after LNC determines that the
items to be hedged expose LNC to interest rate fluctuations, the widening of
bond yield spreads over comparable maturity U.S. Government obligations and
foreign exchange risk; and the derivatives used are designated as a hedge and
reduce the indicated risk by having a high correlation of changes in the value
of the derivatives and the items being hedged at both the inception of the
hedge and throughout the hedge period.  Should such criteria not be met, the
change in value of the derivatives is included in net income.

Property and Equipment.  Property and equipment owned for company use is
carried at cost less allowances for depreciation.

Premiums and Fees.  Revenue for universal life and other interest-sensitive
life insurance policies consists of policy charges for the cost of insurance,
policy initiation and administration, and surrender charges that have been
assessed.  Traditional individual life-health and annuity premiums are
recognized as revenue over the premium-paying period of the policies.  Group
health and property-casualty premiums are prorated over the contract term of
the policies.  

As specified in the investment advisory agreements with the mutual funds, fees
are determined and recognized as revenues monthly, based on the average daily
net assets of the mutual funds managed.  Investment advisory contracts
generally provide for the determination and payment of advisory fees based on
market values of managed portfolios at the end of a calendar month or quarter. 
Investment management and advisory contracts are renewable annually with
cancellation clauses ranging from 30 to 90 days.

Assets Held in Separate Accounts/Liabilities Related to Separate Accounts. 
These assets and liabilities represent segregated funds administered and
invested by LNC's insurance subsidiaries for the exclusive benefit of pension
and variable life and annuity contractholders.  The fees received by LNC's
insurance subsidiaries for administrative and contractholder maintenance
services performed for these separate accounts are included in LNC's
consolidated statements of income. 

Deferred Acquisition Costs.  Commissions and other costs of acquiring
universal life insurance, variable universal life insurance, traditional life
insurance, annuities, group health insurance and property-casualty insurance
which vary with and are primarily related to the production of new business,
have been deferred to the extent recoverable.  Acquisition costs for universal
and variable universal life insurance policies are being amortized over the
lives of the policies in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits
from surrender charges and investment, mortality, and expense margins, and
actual realized gain (loss) on investments.  That amortization is adjusted
retrospectively when estimates of current or future gross profits to be
realized from a group of products are revised.  The traditional life-health
and annuity acquisition costs are being amortized over the premium-paying
period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in
computing policy reserves.  Deferred acquisition costs for property-casualty
policies are amortized over the contract term of the policies; property-ca-
sualty acquisition costs that are not recoverable from future premiums and
related investment income are expensed.  

Expenses.  Expenses for universal and variable universal life insurance
policies include interest credited to policy account balances and benefit
claims incurred during the period in excess of policy account balances. 
Interest crediting rates associated with funds invested in the insurance
company's general account during 1993 through 1995 ranged from 6.1% to 8.25%.  


 -42-

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  The cost of acquired subsidiaries in
excess of the fair value of net assets (goodwill) is amortized using the
straight-line method over periods that generally correspond with the benefits
expected to be derived from the acquisitions.  Goodwill recorded subsequent to
1994 is amortized over 20 to 25 years.  Goodwill arising prior to 1995 is
generally amortized over 40 years.

The present value of business in-force is an asset that is recorded in
connection with the acquisition of an insurance company or a block of
policies.  The initial value is determined actuarially by discounting
estimated future gross profits as a measure of the value of business in-force
purchased.  The resulting asset is amortized on a constant yield basis over
the expected revenue recognition period of the business acquired, with the
accrual of interest added to the unamortized balance at rates ranging from 8%
to 9%.

Other intangible assets (i.e. institutional customer relationships, covenants
not to compete and mutual fund customer relationships) have been recorded in
connection with the acquisition of an asset management services company. 
These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over 6 to 15 years.

The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets is reviewed
periodically for indicators of impairment in value.

Policy Liabilities and Accruals.  The liabilities for future policy benefits
and expenses for universal and variable universal life insurance policies
consist of policy account balances that accrue to the benefit of the
policyholders, excluding surrender charges.  The liabilities for future policy
benefits and expenses for traditional life policies and immediate and deferred
paid-up annuities are computed using a net level premium method and
assumptions for investment yields, mortality and withdrawals based principally
on company experience projected at the time of policy issue, with provision
for possible adverse deviations.  Interest assumptions for traditional direct
individual life reserves for all policies range from 2.3% to 11.7% graded to
5.7% after 30 years depending on time of policy issue.  Interest rate
assumptions for reinsurance reserves range from 5.0% to 11.0% graded to 8.0%
after 20 years.  The interest assumptions for immediate and deferred paid-up
annuities range from 4.5% to 8.0%.

The liability for unpaid property-casualty claims is based on estimates of
payments to be made for individual claims reported and unreported claims,
reduced by estimated recoveries from salvage and subrogation.  With respect to
its policy liabilities and accruals, LNC carries on a continuing review of its
1) overall reserve position, 2) reserving techniques and 3) reinsurance
arrangements, and as experience develops and new information becomes known,
liabilities are adjusted as deemed necessary.  The effects of changes in
estimates are included in the operating results for the period in which such
estimates occur.  

Reinsurance.  LNC's insurance companies enter into reinsurance agreements with
other companies in the normal course of their business.  LNC's insurance
subsidiaries may assume reinsurance from unaffiliated companies and/or cede
reinsurance to such companies.  Assets/liabilities and premiums/benefits from
certain reinsurance contracts which grant statutory surplus to other insurance
companies have been netted on the balance sheets and income statements,
respectively, since there is a right of offset.  All other reinsurance
agreements are reported on a gross basis.  

Depreciation.  Provisions for depreciation of investment real estate and 
property and equipment owned for company use are computed principally on the 
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Postretirement Medical and Life Insurance Benefits.  LNC accounts for its
postretirement medical and life insurance benefits using the full accrual
method.

Stock Options.  LNC recognizes compensation expense for its stock option
incentive plans using the intrinsic value method of accounting.  Under the
terms of the intrinsic value method, compensation cost is the excess, if any,
of the quoted market price of the stock at the grant date, or other
measurement date, over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.


 -43-

Foreign Exchange.  LNC's foreign subsidiaries' balance sheet accounts and 
income statement items are translated at the current exchange and average 
exchange rates for the year, respectively.  Resulting translation adjustments 
are reported as a component of shareholders' equity.  Other translation 
adjustments for foreign currency transactions that affect cash flows are 
reported in earnings.


2.  Changes in Accounting Principles, Changes in Estimates and                 
    Reclassifications

Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions.  Effective January 1, 1993, LNC
changed its method of accounting for postretirement medical and life insurance
benefits for its eligible employees and agents from a pay-as-you-go method to
a full accrual method in accordance with Financial Accounting Standard No. 106
entitled "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
Pensions" ("FAS 106").  This full accrual method recognizes the estimated
obligation for retired employees and agents and active employees and agents 
who are expected to retire in the future.  The effect of the change for 1993
was to increase net periodic postretirement benefit cost by $9,200,000 and
decrease income before cumulative effect of accounting change by $6,000,000
($.06 per share).  The implementation of FAS 106 resulted in a one-time charge
to first quarter 1993 net income of $96,400,000 ($146,100,000 pre-tax) or $.94
per share for the cumulative effect of the accounting change.  See note 6 on
page 53 for additional disclosures regarding postretirement benefits other
than pensions.

Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan.  Financial Accounting
Standard No. 114 entitled "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan"
("FAS 114") issued in May 1993, was adopted by LNC effective January 1, 1993. 
FAS 114 requires that if an impaired mortgage loan's fair value as described
in note 3 on page 46 is less than the recorded investment in the loan, the
difference is recorded in the mortgage loan allowance for losses account.  The
adoption of FAS 114 resulted in additions to the mortgage loan allowance for
losses account and reduced first quarter 1993 income before cumulative effect
of accounting change and net income by $42,300,000 or $.41 per share
($64,100,000 pre-tax).  See note 3 on page 47 for further mortgage loan
disclosures.  Most of the effect of this change in accounting was within the
Life Insurance and Annuities segment.

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.  Financial
Accounting Standard No. 115 entitled "Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities" ("FAS 115") issued in May 1993, was adopted by LNC
as of December 31, 1993.  In accordance with the rules, the prior year
financial statements have not been restated to reflect the change in
accounting principle.  Under FAS 115, securities can be classified as
available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity according to the holder's
intent.  LNC classified its entire fixed maturity securities portfolio as
"available-for-sale."  Securities classified as available-for-sale are carried
at fair value and unrealized gains and losses on such securities are carried
as a separate component of shareholders' equity.  The ending balance of
shareholders' equity at December 31, 1993 was increased by $768,400,000 (net
of $384,600,000 of related adjustments to deferred acquisition costs,
$62,900,000 of policyholder commitments and $412,400,000 in deferred income
taxes, all of which would have been recognized if those securities would have
been sold at their fair value, net of amounts applicable to Security-
Connecticut Corporation) to reflect the net unrealized gain on fixed maturity
securities classified as available-for-sale previously carried at amortized
cost.  Prior to the adoption of FAS 115, LNC carried a portion of its fixed
maturity securities at fair value with unrealized gains and losses carried as
a separate component of shareholders' equity.  The remainder of such
securities were carried at amortized cost.

Change in Estimate for Net Investment Income Related to Mortgage-backed
Securities.  At December 31, 1993, LNC had $6,062,000,000 invested in
mortgage-backed securities.  As indicated in note 1 on page 40, LNC recognizes
income on these securities using a constant effective yield based on
anticipated prepayments.  With the implementation of new investment software
in December 1993, LNC was able to significantly refine its estimate of the
effective yield on such securities to better reflect actual prepayments and
estimates of future prepayments.  This resulted in an increase in the
amortization of purchase discount on these securities of $58,600,000 and,
after related amortization of deferred acquisition costs ($18,500,000) and

 -44-

income taxes ($14,100,000), increased 1993's income before cumulative effect
of accounting change and net income by $26,000,000 or $0.25 per share.  Most
of the effect of this change in estimate was within the Life Insurance and
Annuities business segment.

Change in Estimate for Disability Income Reserves.  During the fourth quarter
of 1993, income before cumulative effect of accounting change and net income
decreased by $32,800,000 or $0.32 per share as the result of strengthening
reinsurance disability income reserves by $50,500,000.  The need for this
reserve increase within the Reinsurance segment was identified as the result
of management's assessment of current expectations for morbidity trends and
the impact of lower investment income due to lower interest rates.

During the fourth quarter of 1995, LNC completed an in-depth review of the
experience of its disability income business.  As a result of this study, and
based on the assumption that recent experience will continue in the future,
income before cumulative effect of accounting change and net income decreased
by $121,600,000 or $1.17 per share ($187,000,000 pre-tax) as a result of
strengthening disability income reserves by $142,700,000 and writing-off
deferred acquisition costs of $44,300,000 in the Reinsurance segment.

Reclassifications.  During the first quarter of 1995, in accordance with
management's current judgement of the economic effect of certain reinsurance
contracts which provide statutory surplus relief to other insurance companies,
changes have been made in the classification of assets, liabilities, revenues,
and total benefits and expenses to reflect deposit accounting for such
contracts.  Amounts for prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
1995 presentation.  Net income and shareholders' equity are not affected by
these reclassifications.  The reclassifications reduced assets/liabilities and
revenues/total benefits and expenses as follows:

December 31                             (in millions)     1994        1993
Assets/liabilities -----------------------------------  $465.3      $555.3

Year Ended December 31                  (in millions)     1994        1993
Revenues/total benefits and expenses -----------------  $804.5      $897.0






 -45-


Provisions (credits) for write-downs and net changes in provisions for losses,
which are included in the realized gain (loss) on investments shown above, are
as follows:



The change in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on investments in fixed 
maturity and equity securities is as follows:



 
The cost, gross unrealized gain and loss, and fair value of securities
available-for-sale are as follows:






 -46-

Future maturities of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale are as
follows:


The foregoing data is based on stated maturities.  Actual maturities will
differ in some cases because borrowers may have the right to call or pre-pay
obligations.

At December 31, 1995, the current par, amortized cost and estimated fair value
of investments in mortgage-backed securities summarized by interest rates of
the underlying collateral are as follows:




The quality ratings of fixed maturity securities available-for-sale are as
follows:



Mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current
information and events, it is probable that LNC will be unable to collect all
amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement.  When
LNC determines that a loan is impaired, a provision for loss is established
for the difference between the carrying value of the mortgage loan and the
estimated value.  Estimated value is based on either the present value of
expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate,
the loan's observable market price or the fair value of the collateral.  The
provision for losses is reported as realized gain (loss) on investments. 
Mortgage loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance
for losses and subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance
for losses.

The allowance for losses is maintained at a level believed adequate by
management to absorb estimated probable credit losses.  Management's periodic
evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for losses is based on LNC's past
loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse
situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay (including the
timing of future payments), the estimated value of the underlying collateral,
composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other
relevant factors.  This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires
estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received
on impaired loans that may be susceptible to significant change.


 -47-

Impaired loans along with the related allowance for losses are as follows:



Impaired loans with no allowance for losses are a result of 1) direct write-
downs or 2) collateral dependent loans where the fair value of the collateral
is greater than the recorded investment in loans.

A reconciliation of the mortgage loan allowance for losses for these impaired
mortgage loans is as follows:



The average recorded investment in impaired loans and the interest income
recognized on impaired loans were as follows:



All interest income on impaired loans was recognized on the cash basis of
income recognition.

As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, LNC had restructured loans of $62,500,000
and $36,200,000, respectively.  LNC recorded $6,300,000 and $800,000 interest
income on these restructured loans in 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Interest
income in the amount of $6,600,000 and $3,900,000 would have been recorded on
these loans according to their original terms in 1995 and 1994, respectively. 
As of December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994, LNC had no outstanding
commitments to lend funds on restructured loans.

As of December 31, 1995, LNC's investment commitments for fixed maturity
securities (primarily private placements), mortgage loans on real estate and
real estate were $546,900,000.

Fixed maturity securities available-for-sale, mortgage loans on real estate
and real estate with a combined carrying value at December 31, 1995 of
$8,000,000 were non-income producing for the year ended December 31, 1995.

The cost information for mortgage loans on real estate, real estate and other
long-term investments are net of allowances for losses.  The balance sheet
account for other liabilities includes a reserve for guarantees of third-party
debt.  The amount of allowances and reserves for such items is as follows:



 -48-

4.  Federal Income Taxes

The Federal income tax expense (benefit) before cumulative effect of
accounting change is as follows:



Cash paid for Federal income taxes in 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $38,300,000,
$70,900,000 and $279,700,000, respectively.  The cash paid in 1995 is net of a
$147,400,000 cash refund related to the carryback of 1994 capital losses to
prior years.

The effective tax rate on pre-tax income before cumulative effect of
accounting change is lower than the prevailing corporate Federal income tax
rate.  A reconciliation of this difference is as follows:



The Federal income tax recoverable (liability) is as follows: 




Significant components of LNC's net deferred tax asset (liability) are as
follows:




 -49

At December 31, 1995, LNC had net operating loss carryforwards of $227,300,000
for income tax purposes related to its foreign life reinsurance companies that
expire in years 2005 through 2009.  Delaware Management Holdings, Inc.
("Delaware"), acquired in 1995, has net operating loss carryforwards for
income tax purposes of $117,500,000 at December 31, 1995, which expire during
the periods 2002 through 2010.  These carryforwards will only be available to
reduce the respective taxable income of the foreign life reinsurance companies
and Delaware.  

LNC is required to establish a "valuation allowance" for any portion of its 
deferred tax assets which are unlikely to be realized.  At December 31, 1994,
$159,300,000 of deferred tax assets relating to net unrealized capital losses
on fixed maturity and equity securities available-for-sale were available to
be recorded in shareholders' equity before considering a valuation allowance.  
For Federal income tax purposes, capital losses may only be used to offset
capital gains in the current year or during a three year carryback and five
year carryforward period.  Due to these restrictions, and the uncertainty at
that time of future capital gains, these deferred tax assets were
substantially offset by a valuation allowance of $135,600,000.  By December
31, 1995, the fair values of fixed maturity and equity securities available-
for-sale were greater than the cost basis resulting in unrealized capital
gains.  Accordingly, no valuation allowance was established as of December 31,
1995, since management believes it is more likely than not that LNC will
realize the benefit of its deferred tax assets.
 
Prior to 1984, a portion of the life companies' current income was not subject 
to current income tax, but was accumulated for income tax purposes in a 
memorandum account designated as "policyholders' surplus."  The total of the 
life companies' balances in their respective "policyholders' surplus" accounts 
at December 31, 1983 of $222,400,000 was "frozen" by the Tax Reform Act of
1984 and, accordingly, there have been no additions to the accounts after that
date.  That portion of current income on which income taxes have been paid
will continue to be accumulated in a memorandum account designated as
"shareholders' surplus," and is available for dividends to shareholders
without additional payment of tax.  The December 31, 1995 total of the life
companies' account balances for their "shareholders' surplus" was
$1,643,800,000.  Should dividends to shareholders for each life company exceed
its respective "shareholders' surplus," amounts would need to be transferred
from its respective "policyholders' surplus" and would be subject to Federal
income tax at that time.  In connection with the 1993 sale of a life insurance
affiliate (see note 11 on page 65) $8,800,000 was transferred from
policyholders' surplus to shareholders' surplus and current income tax of
$3,100,000 was paid.  Under existing or foreseeable circumstances, LNC neither
expects nor intends that distributions will be made from the remaining balance
in "policyholders' surplus" of $213,600,000 that will result in any such tax. 
Accordingly, no provision for deferred income taxes has been provided by LNC
on its "policyholders' surplus" account.  In the event that such excess
distributions were made, it is estimated that income taxes of approximately
$74,800,000 would be due.

Undistributed earnings of certain LNC foreign subsidiaries that are considered
to be indefinitely reinvested amounted to approximately $135,000,000 at
December 31, 1995.  Accordingly, no provisions for U.S. income taxes have been
provided thereon.  Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of
dividends or otherwise, LNC would be subject to both U.S. income taxes
(subject to adjustments for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable
to the applicable foreign countries.  Determination of the amount of
unrecognized deferred U.S. income tax liability is not practicable because of
the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculations.

 -50-


5.  Supplemental Financial Data




At December 31, 1995, property and equipment is also net of a $28,300,000
valuation allowance for operating property held-for-sale.









 -51-
     
The reconciliation shows a decrease of $24,500,000, $78,200,000, and
$26,500,000 to the December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 liability for claims and
claim expenses, respectively, arising in prior years.  Such reserve
adjustments, which affected current operations during 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively, resulted from developed claims for prior years being different
than were anticipated when the liabilities for claims and claim expenses were
originally estimated.  The favorable development trends are reflective of the
changes in underwriting practices adopted during the last three years.  These
development trends have been considered in establishing current year reserves.



The commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 1995 and 1994, had a weighted
average interest rate of approximately 6.00% and 5.90%, respectively. 

Future maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in millions):

1996 - $  1.5                  1998 - $ 18.8                  2000 - $   .4
1997 -   21.1                  1999 -  100.5            Thereafter -  523.0  

LNC maintains a revolving credit agreement with a group of domestic and
foreign banks in the aggregate amount of $500,000,000.  At December 31, 1995,
this agreement, which expires in September 2000, provides for interest on
borrowings based on various money market indices.  Under the terms of this 
agreement, LNC must maintain a prescribed level of adjusted consolidated net
worth.  In addition, debt levels must remain below 45% of adjusted
consolidated net worth.  At December 31, 1995, LNC had no outstanding
borrowings under this agreement.  During 1995, 1994 and 1993, fees paid for
maintaining revolving credit agreements amounted to $649,000, $1,000,000, and
$1,300,000, respectively.  

Cash paid for interest for 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $73,200,000, $47,900,000, 
and $44,200,000, respectively.



The income statement caption, "Benefits and Settlement Expenses," is net of
reinsurance recoveries of $422,600,000, $284,700,000 and $174,000,000 for the
years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

The income statement caption, "Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other 
Expenses," includes amortization of deferred acquisition costs of
$687,300,000, $598,300,000 and $571,800,000 for the years ended December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  An additional $(85,200,000), $81,200,000
and $(23,700,000) of deferred acquisition costs was restored (amortized) and
netted against "Realized Gain (Loss) on Investments" for the years ended
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

 -52-

6.  Employee Benefit Plans

Pensions Plans - U.S.  LNC maintains funded defined benefit pension plans for
most of its U.S. employees and, prior to January 1, 1995, full-time agents.  
The benefits for employees are based on total years of service and the highest
60 months of compensation during the last 10 years of employment.  The
benefits for agents were based on a percentage of each agent's yearly
earnings.  The plans are funded by contributions to tax-exempt trusts.  LNC's
funding policy is consistent with the funding requirements of Federal law and
regulations.  Contributions are intended to provide not only the benefits
attributed to service to date, but also those expected to be earned in the
future.  Plan assets consist principally of listed equity securities and
corporate obligations and government bonds.

All benefits applicable to the funded defined benefit plan for agents were
frozen as of December 31, 1994.  The curtailment of this plan did not have a
significant effect on net pension cost for 1994.  Effective January 1, 1995,
pension benefits for agents have been provided by a new defined contribution
plan.  Contributions to this plan are based on 2.3% of an agent's earnings up
to the social security wage base and 4.6% of any excess.

LNC also sponsors three types of unfunded, nonqualified, defined benefit plans
for certain U.S. employees, agents and directors.  A supplemental retirement
plan provides defined benefit pension benefits in excess of limits imposed by
Federal tax law.  A salary continuation plan provides certain officers of LNC
defined pension benefits based on years of service and final monthly salary
upon death or retirement.  A retirement plan for outside directors provides
benefits based on years of service and the amount of the retainer paid during
the last year of service.





 -53-





 
Pension Plan - Non U.S.  The employees of LNC's primary foreign subsidiary are
covered by a defined benefit pension plan.  The plan provides death and
pension benefits based on final pensionable salary.  At December 31, 1995,
plan assets exceeded the projected benefit obligations by $9,020,000 and were
included in other assets in LNC's balance sheet.  At December 31, 1994, the
projected benefit obligation exceeded plan assets by $3,631,000 and was
included with other liabilities in LNC's balance sheet.  Net pension cost for
the foreign plans was $1,727,000, $633,000 and $1,112,000, for 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively.

401(k) Plan.  LNC and its subsidiaries also sponsor contributory defined 
contribution plans for eligible U.S. employees and agents.  LNC's
contributions to the plans are equal to a participant's pre-tax contribution,
not to exceed 6% of base pay, multiplied by a percentage, ranging from 25% to
150%, which varies according to certain incentive criteria as determined by
LNC's Board of Directors.  Expense for these plans amounted to $20,700,000,
$29,400,000 and $26,300,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

Postretirement Medical and Life Insurance Benefit Plans. LNC sponsors unfunded
defined benefit plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance
benefits to full-time U.S. employees and agents who, depending on the plan,
have worked for LNC 10 to 15 years and attained age 55 to 60.  Medical
benefits are also available to spouses and other dependents of employees and
agents.  For medical benefits, limited contributions are required from
individuals retired prior to November 1, 1988; contributions for later
retirees, which can be adjusted annually, are based on such items as years of
service at retirement and age at retirement.  The life insurance benefits are
noncontributory, although participants can elect supplemental contributory
benefits.




 -54-



The calculation of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes a 
weighted-average annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered 
benefits (i.e. health care cost trend rate) of 9.5% for 1996 gradually 
decreasing to 5.5% by 2004 and remaining at that level thereafter.  The health 
care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amounts 
reported.  For example, increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by 
one percentage point each year would increase the accumulated postretirement 
benefit obligation as of December 1995 and 1994 by $11,100,000 and
$10,300,000, respectively, and the aggregate of the estimated service and
interest cost components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the
year ended December 31, 1995 by $1,100,000.  The calculation assumes a
long-term rate of increase in compensation of 5.0% for both December 31, 1995
and 1994.  The weighted-average discount rate used in determining the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.0% and 8.0% for December
31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Incentive Plans.  LNC has various incentive plans for key employees and agents
of LNC and its subsidiaries which provide for the issuance of stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards and stock incentive awards. 
These plans are comprised primarily of stock option incentive plans.  Stock
options granted under the stock option incentive plans are at the market value
at the date of grant and, subject to termination of employment, expire 10
years from the date of grant.  Such options are not transferable other than on
death and are exercisable one year from date of grant for options issued prior
to 1992.  Options issued subsequent to 1991 are exercisable in 25% increments
on the option issuance anniversary in the four years following issuance.

Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 entitled "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" ("FAS 123") issued in October 1995, was adopted by LNC as of
December 31, 1995.  The provisions of FAS 123 allow companies to either
expense the estimated fair value of stock options or to continue their current
practice but disclose the pro forma effects on net income and earnings per
share had the fair value of the options been expensed.  LNC has elected to
continue its practice of recognizing compensation expense for its stock option
incentive plans using the intrinsic value based method of accounting (see note
1 on page 42) and to provide the required pro forma information for stock
options granted after December 31, 1994.  Accordingly, no compensation expense
has been recognized for stock option incentive plans.  Had compensation
expense for LNC's stock option incentive plans for options granted after
December 31, 1994 been determined based on the estimated fair value at the
grant dates for awards under those plans, LNC's pro forma net income and
earnings per share for 1995 would have been $479,786,000 and $4.61,
respectively (a decrease of $2,400,000 and $.02, respectively).  The effects
on 1995 pro forma net income and earnings per share of expensing the estimated
fair value of stock options are not necessarily representative of the effects
on reported net income for future years due to such things as the vesting
period of the stock options and the potential for issuance of additional stock
options in future years.

The fair value of options granted after December 31, 1994, used as a basis for
the above pro forma disclosures, was estimated as of the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model.  The option pricing assumptions include a
dividend yield of 4.4%; an expected volatility of 22%; a risk-free interest
rate of 6.3%; and an expected life of 5 years.  The weighted-average fair
value per option granted during 1995 was $7.15.


 -55-







7. Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies

Statutory Information and Restrictions


Life-health insurance statutory net income for 1995, 1994 and 1993, excluding 
LNC's foreign life reinsurance companies, was $350,400,000, $411,100,000 and 
$267,200,000, respectively.




 -56-

LNC's insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain insurance department
regulatory restrictions as to the transfer of funds and payments of dividends
to LNC.  In 1996, LNC's insurance subsidiaries can transfer up to $518,100,000
without seeking prior approval from the insurance regulators.

Environmental Losses
Total property-casualty liabilities for unpaid claims and claim expenses were
$2,595,000,000 and $2,703,000,000 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. 
These liabilities include a liability for environmental losses of $256,000,000
and $201,000,000, respectively.  In establishing liabilities for claims and
claim expenses related to environmental matters, management considers facts
currently known and the current state of the law and coverage litigation. 
Liabilities are recognized for known claims (including the cost of related
litigation) when sufficient information has been developed to indicate the
involvement of a specific insurance policy and management can reasonably
estimate its liability.  In addition, liabilities have been established to
cover additional exposures on both known and unasserted claims.  Estimates of
the liabilities are reviewed and updated continually.  Developed case law and
adequate claim history do not exist for a portion of LNC's environmental
exposure, especially because significant uncertainty exists about the outcome
of coverage litigation and whether past claims experience will be
representative of future claims experience.  Accordingly, although management
believes the estimated reserve provided for environmental losses is adequate,
it is reasonably possible that a change in estimate of required reserve levels
could occur in the near term.  It is not possible to provide a meaningful
estimate of a range of possible outcomes at this time.

Disability Income Claims
The liability for disability income claims net of the related asset for
amounts recoverable from reinsurers at December 31, 1995 and 1994 is a net
liability of $1,541,000,000 and $815,800,000, respectively, excluding deferred
acquisition costs.  The bulk of the increase to this liability relates to the
assumption of a large block of disability claim reserves and related assets
during the third quarter of 1995.  In addition, as indicated in note 2 on page
44, LNC strengthened its disability income reserves and wrote off certain
related deferred acquisition costs in the fourth quarter of 1995.  The
reserves were established on the assumption that recent experience will
continue in the future.  If incidence levels or claim termination rates vary
significantly from these assumptions, further adjustments to reserves may be
required in the future.  It is not possible to provide a meaningful estimate
of a range of potential outcomes at this time.  LNC reviews and updates the
level of these reserves on an on-going basis.

Compliance of Qualified Annuity Plans
Tax authorities continue to focus on compliance of qualified annuity plans
marketed by insurance companies.  If sponsoring employers cannot demonstrate
compliance and the insurance company is held responsible due to its marketing
efforts, LNC and other insurers may be subject to potential liability.  It is
not possible to provide a meaningful estimate of the range of potential
liability at this time.  Management continues to monitor this matter and to
take steps to minimize any potential liability.

Group Pension Annuities
The liabilities for guaranteed interest and group pension annuity contracts,
which are no longer being sold, are supported by a single portfolio of assets
which attempts to match the duration of these liabilities.  Due to the very
long-term nature of group pension annuities and the resulting inability to
exactly match cash flows, a risk exists that future cash flows from
investments will not be reinvested at rates as high as currently earned by the
portfolio.  This situation could cause losses which would be recognized at
some future time.

Leases
Certain of LNC's subsidiaries lease their home office properties through 
sale-leaseback agreements.  The agreements provide for a 25 year lease period 
with options to renew for six additional terms of five years each.  The  

 -57-

agreements also provide LNC with the right of first refusal to purchase the 
properties during the term of the lease, including renewal periods, at a price 
as defined in the agreements.  In addition, LNC has the option to purchase the 
leased properties at fair market value as defined in the agreements on the
last day of the initial 25 year lease period ending in 2009 or the last day of
any of the renewal periods.



Insurance Ceded and Assumed
LNC's insurance companies cede insurance to other companies.  The portion of
risks exceeding each company's retention limit is reinsured with other
insurers.  LNC seeks reinsurance coverage within the business segments that
sell life insurance that limits its liabilities on an individual insured to
$3,000,000.  Since 1993, catastrophe reinsurance arrangements for property-
casualty coverages provided for a recovery of an average of approximately 93%
of losses in excess of $30,000,000 up to $180,000,000 per occurrence.  To
cover products other than life and property-casualty insurance, LNC acquires
other insurance coverages with retentions and limits which management believes
are appropriate for the circumstances.  The accompanying financial statements
reflect premiums, benefits and settlement expenses and deferred acquisition
costs, net of insurance ceded (see note 5 on page 51).  LNC's insurance
companies remain liable if their reinsurers are unable to meet their
contractual obligations under the applicable reinsurance agreements.  

Certain LNC insurance companies assume insurance from other companies.  At
December 31, 1995, LNC's insurance companies have provided $602,900,000 of
statutory surplus relief to other insurance companies under reinsurance
transactions.  Generally, such amounts are offset by corresponding receivables
from the ceding company, which are secured by future profits on the reinsured
business.  However, LNC's insurance companies are subject to the risk that the
ceding company may become insolvent and the right of offset would not be
permitted.

Associated with these transactions, LNC's foreign insurance companies have 
obtained letters of credit in favor of various unaffiliated insurance
companies from which LNC assumes business.  This allows the ceding companies
to take statutory reserve credit.  The letters of credit issued by the banks
represent a guarantee of performance under the reinsurance agreements.  At
December 31, 1995, there were $417,000,000 of outstanding bank letters of
credit.  In exchange for the letters of credits, LNC paid the banks
approximately $2,100,000 in fees in 1995.  

Vulnerability from Concentrations
At December 31, 1995, LNC did not have a material concentration of financial
instruments in a single investee, industry or geographic location.  Also at
December 31, 1995, LNC did not have a concentration of 1) business
transactions with a particular customer, lender or distributor, 2) revenues
from a particular product or service, 3) sources of supply of labor or
services used in the business or 4) a market or geographic area in which
business is conducted that makes it vulnerable to an event that is at least
reasonably possible to occur in the near term and which could cause a severe
impact to LNC's financial condition, except for the market and geographic
concentration described in the following paragraph.

LNC writes personal and commercial lines of property and casualty insurance
throughout the United States.  As a result, LNC is always at risk that there
could be significant losses arising in certain geographic areas from
catastrophes, such as earthquakes and hurricanes.  LNC seeks to protect itself
from such events by purchasing catastrophe insurance.  LNC's policies in-force
providing earthquake, hurricane and related coverage in the midwest, western
and southeastern coastal areas of the United States could expose LNC to losses
exceeding its reinsurance limits.  Although the exposure exists, LNC has not
encountered losses in excess of its reinsurance limits during any year.


 -58-

Other Contingency Matters
LNC and its subsidiaries are involved in various pending or threatened legal 
proceedings arising from the conduct of their business.  In some instances, 
these proceedings include claims for punitive damages and similar types of 
relief in unspecified or substantial amounts, in addition to amounts for 
alleged contractual liability or requests for equitable relief.  After 
consultation with counsel and a review of available facts, it is management's 
opinion that these proceedings ultimately will be resolved without materially 
affecting the consolidated financial statements of LNC.

Operations in the U.K. include the sale of pension products to individuals. 
Regulatory agencies have raised questions as to what constitutes appropriate
advice to individuals who bought pension products as an alternative to
participation in an employer sponsored plan.  In cases of inappropriate
advice, LNC may have to do extensive investigation and put the individual in a
position similar to what would have been attained if the individual had
remained in the employer sponsored plan.  A liability has been established for
the estimated cost of this issue following regulatory guidance as to
activities to be undertaken.  Although the provision is based on various
estimates which are subject to considerable uncertainty and, accordingly, may
prove to be deficient or excessive, it is management's opinion that such
future development will not materially affect the consolidated results of
operation.

The number of insurance companies that are under regulatory supervision has
resulted and is expected to continue to result in assessments by state
guaranty funds to cover losses to policyholders of insolvent or rehabilitated
companies.  Mandatory assessments may be partially recovered through a
reduction in future premium taxes in some states.  LNC has accrued 
for expected assessments net of estimated future premium tax deductions.

Guarantees



Certain subsidiaries of LNC have invested in real estate partnerships which
use industrial revenue bonds to finance their projects.  LNC has guaranteed
the repayment of principal and interest on these bonds.  Certain subsidiaries
of LNC are also involved in other real estate partnerships that use
conventional mortgage loans.  In some cases, the terms of these arrangements
involve guarantees by each of the partners to indemnify the mortgagor in the
event a partner is unable to pay its principal and interest payments.  In
addition, certain subsidiaries of LNC have sold commercial mortgage loans
through grantor trusts which issued pass-through certificates.  These
subsidiaries have agreed to repurchase any mortgage loans which remain
delinquent for 90 days at a repurchase price substantially equal to the
outstanding principal balance plus accrued interest thereon to the date of
repurchase.  It is management's opinion that the value of the properties
underlying these commitments is sufficient that in the event of default the
impact would not be material to LNC.

Derivatives
LNC has derivatives with off-balance-sheet risks whose notional or contract
amounts exceed the credit exposure.  LNC has entered into derivative
transactions to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, the
widening of bond yield spreads over comparable maturity U.S. Government
obligations and foreign exchange risks.  In addition, LNC is subject to the
risks associated with changes in the value of its derivatives; however, such
changes in the value generally are offset by changes in the value of the items
being hedged by such contracts.  Outstanding derivatives with off-balance-


 -59-

sheet risks, shown in notional or contract amounts along with their carrying
value and estimated fair values, are as follows:









Interest Rate Caps.  The interest rate cap agreements, which expire in 1997 
through 2003, entitle LNC to receive payments from the counterparties on
specified future reset dates, contingent on future interest rates.  For each
cap, the amount of such quarterly payments, if any, is determined by the
excess of a market interest rate over a specified cap rate times the notional
amount divided by four.  The purpose of LNC's interest rate cap agreement
program is to protect its annuity line of business from the effect of
fluctuating interest rates.  The premium paid for the interest rate caps is
included in other assets ($22,700,000 as of December 31, 1995) and is being
amortized over the terms of the agreements and is included in net investment
income.  

Spread Locks.  Spread-lock agreements in effect at December 31, 1995 all
expire in 2005.  Spread-lock agreements provide for a lump sum payment to or
by LNC depending on whether the spread between the swap rate and a specified


 -60-

U.S. Treasury note is larger or smaller than a contractually specified spread. 
Cash payments are based on the product of the notional amount, the spread
between the swap rate and the yield of an equivalent maturity U.S. Treasury
security and the price sensitivity of the swap at that time, expressed in
dollars per basis point.  The purpose of LNC's spread-lock program is to
protect a portion of its fixed maturity securities against widening spreads.

Financial Futures.  LNC uses exchange-traded financial futures contracts and
options on those financial futures to hedge against interest rate risks and to
manage duration of a portion of its fixed maturity securities.  Financial
futures contracts obligate LNC to buy or sell a financial instrument at a
specified future date for a specified price and may be settled in cash or
through delivery of the financial instrument.  Cash settlements on the change
in market values of financial futures contracts are made daily.  Options on
financial futures give LNC the right, but not the obligation, to assume a long
or short position in the underlying futures at a specified price during a
specified time period.

Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts (Foreign Subsidiary).  LNC uses foreign
exchange forward contracts, which are traded over-the-counter, to hedge the
foreign exchange risk assumed with its investment in its U.K. subsidiary,
Lincoln National (UK).  LNC hedges its exposure to sterling in excess of
$100,000,000 of its investment in Lincoln National (UK).  The foreign exchange
forward contracts obligate LNC to deliver a specified amount of currency at a
future date at a specified exchange rate.

Foreign Currency Derivatives (Foreign Investments).  LNC uses a combination of
foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign currency options, and foreign
currency swaps, all of which are traded over-the-counter, to hedge some of the
foreign exchange risk of investments in fixed maturity securities denominated
in foreign currencies.  The foreign currency forward contracts obligate LNC to
deliver a specified amount of currency at a future date at a specified
exchange rate.  Foreign currency options give LNC the right, but not the
obligation, to buy or sell a foreign currency at a specified exchange rate
during a specified time period.  A foreign currency swap is a contractual
agreement to exchange the currencies of two different countries pursuant to an
agreement to reexchange the two currencies at the same rate of exchange at a
specified future date.

Additional Derivative Information.  Expenses for the agreements and contracts
described above amounted to $9,100,000 and $7,400,000 in 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  Deferred losses of $17,900,000 as of December 31, 1995,
resulting from 1) terminated and expired spread-lock agreements, 2) financial
futures contracts and 3) options on financial futures, are included with the
related fixed maturity securities to which the hedge applied and are being
amortized over the life of such securities.  

LNC is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties
on interest rate cap agreements, spread-lock agreements, interest rate swaps, 
foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign currency option and foreign
currency swaps, but LNC does not anticipate nonperformance by any of the
counterparties.  The credit risk associated with such agreements is minimized
by purchasing such agreements from financial institutions with long-standing,
superior performance records.  The amount of such exposure is essentially the
net replacement cost or market value for such agreements with each
counterparty if the net market value is in LNC's favor.  At December 31, 1995,
the exposure was $7.0 million.


8.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following discussion outlines the methodologies and assumptions used to
determine the estimated fair value of LNC's financial instruments. 
Considerable judgement is required to develop these fair values and,
accordingly, the estimates shown are not necessarily indicative of the amounts
that would be realized in a one time, current market exchange of all of LNC's
financial instruments.

Fixed Maturity and Equity Securities.  Fair values for fixed maturity
securities are based on quoted market prices, where available.  For fixed
maturity securities not actively traded, fair values are estimated using
values obtained from independent pricing services or, in the case of private
placements, are estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using a


 -61-

current market rate applicable to the coupon rate, credit quality, and
maturity of the investments.  The fair values for equity securities are based
on quoted market prices.

Mortgage Loans on Real Estate.  The estimated fair value of mortgage loans on
real estate was established using a discounted cash flow method based on
credit rating, maturity and future income when compared to the expected yield
for mortgages having similar characteristics.  The ratings for mortgages in
good standing are based on property type, location, market conditions,
occupancy, debt service coverage, loan to value, caliber of tenancy, borrower
and payment record.  Fair values for impaired mortgage loans are measured
based either on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at
the loan's effective interest rate, at the loan's market price or the fair 
value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.  

Policy Loans.  The estimated fair value of investments in policy loans was
calculated on a composite discounted cash flow basis using Treasury interest
rates consistent with the maturity durations assumed.  These durations were
based on historical experience.

Other Investments, and Cash and Invested Cash.  The carrying value for assets
classified as other investments, and cash and invested cash in the
accompanying balance sheets approximates their fair value.

Investment Type Insurance Contracts.  The balance sheet captions, "Future
Policy Benefits, Claims and Claim Expenses" and "Contractholder Funds,"
include investment type insurance contracts (i.e. deposit contracts and
guaranteed interest contracts).  The fair values for the deposit contracts and
certain guaranteed interest contracts are based on their approximate surrender
values.  The fair values for the remaining guaranteed interest and similar
contracts are estimated using discounted cash flow calculations based on
interest rates currently being offered on similar contracts with maturities
consistent with those remaining for the contracts being valued.

The remainder of the balance sheet captions, "Future Policy Benefits, Claims
and Claim Expenses" and "Contractholder Funds," that do not fit the definition
of "investment type insurance contracts" are considered insurance contracts. 
Fair value disclosures are not required for these insurance contracts and have
not been determined by LNC.  It is LNC's position that the disclosure of the
fair value of these insurance contracts is important in that readers of these
financial statements could draw inappropriate conclusions about LNC's
shareholders' equity determined on a fair value basis if only the fair value
of assets and liabilities defined as financial instruments are disclosed.  LNC
and other companies in the insurance industry are monitoring the related
actions of the various rule-making bodies and attempting to determine an
appropriate methodology for estimating and disclosing the "fair value" of
their insurance contract liabilities.

Short-term and Long-term Debt.  Fair values for long-term debt issues are
estimated using discounted cash flow analysis based on LNC's current
incremental borrowing rate for similar types of borrowing arrangements.  For
short-term debt, the carrying value approximates fair value.

Guarantees.  LNC's guarantees include guarantees related to industrial revenue
bonds, real estate partnerships and mortgage loan pass-through certificates. 
Based on historical performance where repurchases have been negligible and the
current status, which indicates none of the loans are delinquent, the fair
value liability for the guarantees related to the mortgage loan pass-through
certificates is insignificant.  Fair values for all other guarantees are based
on fees that would be charged currently to enter into similar agreements,
taking into consideration the remaining terms of the agreements and the
counterparties' credit standing.

Derivatives.  LNC's derivatives include interest rate cap agreements, spread-
lock agreements, foreign currency exchange contracts, financial futures
contracts, options on financial futures, interest rate swaps, foreign currency
options and foreign currency swaps.  Fair values for these contracts are based
on current settlement values.  The current settlement values are based on
quoted market prices for the foreign currency exchange contracts, financial
futures contracts and options on financial futures, and on brokerage quotes,
which utilized pricing models or formulas using current assumptions, for all
other swaps and agreements.

 -62-

Investment Commitments.  Fair values for commitments to make investments in
fixed maturity securities (primarily private placements), mortgage loans on
real estate and real estate are based on the difference between the value of
the committed investments as of the date of the accompanying balance sheets
and the commitment date, which would take into account changes in interest
rates, the counterparties' credit standing and the remaining terms of the
commitments.



                                   
As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, the carrying value of the deposit contracts
and certain guaranteed contracts is net of deferred acquisition costs of
$336,000,000 and $399,000,000, respectively, excluding adjustments for
deferred acquisition costs applicable to changes in fair value of securities. 
The carrying values of these contracts are stated net of deferred acquisition
costs in order that they be comparable with the fair value basis.


9.  Segment Information

LNC has four business segments:  Life Insurance and Annuities, Reinsurance,
Property-Casualty and Investment Management.  The Life Insurance and Annuities
segment offers universal life, pension products and other individual coverages
through a network of career agents, independent general agencies, and
insurance agencies located within a variety of financial institutions.  These
products are sold throughout the United States by LNC's U.S.-based companies
and similar products are offered within the United Kingdom by LNC's U.K.-based
companies.  Reinsurance sells reinsurance products and services to insurance
companies, HMOs, self-funded employers and other primary risk accepting
organizations in the U.S. and economically attractive international markets. 
Effective in the fourth quarter of 1995, operating results of the direct
disability income business previously included in the Life Insurance and
Annuities segment, is now included in the Reinsurance segment.  This direct
disability income business, which is no longer being sold, is now managed by
the Reinsurance segment along with its disability income business.  The
Property-Casualty segment writes both commercial and personal coverages
throughout most of the United States through a network of independent
agencies.  The Investment Management segment offers a variety of asset
management services to institutional and retail customers primarily throughout
the United States.  Prior to the sale of 71% of the ownership of its primary
writer of employee life-health benefit coverages in 1994 (see note 11 on page
65), the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment distributed group life and
health insurance, managed health care and other related coverages through
career agents and independent general agencies.  Activity which is not
included in the major business segments is shown as "Other Operations." 

"Other Operations" includes operations not directly related to the business
segments and unallocated corporate items (i.e., corporate investment income,
interest expense on corporate debt and unallocated overhead expenses).  LNC's
other operations also included 1) the equity in the earnings of a 29% owned
unconsolidated affiliate engaged in the life-health benefit business prior to

 -63-

the sale of this interest in 1995 and 2) the earnings of its investment
management companies prior to the formation of the Investment Management
segment in April 1995 as a result of the acquisition of Delaware Management
Holdings, Inc.  See note 11 on page 65.



Provisions for depreciation and capital additions were not material.



All earnings from LNC's U.K. operations have been retained in the U.K. 
Foreign intracompany revenue is not significant.


10.  Shareholders' Equity

LNC's common and preferred stock is without par value.

All of the issued and outstanding series A preferred stock is $3 Cumulative 
Convertible and is convertible at any time into shares of common stock at a 
conversion rate of eight shares of common stock for each share of series A 
preferred stock, subject to adjustment for certain events.  The series A
preferred stock is redeemable at the option of LNC at $80 per share plus
accrued and unpaid dividends.


 -64-

Outstanding series A preferred stock has full voting rights, subject to
adjustment if LNC is in default as to the payment of dividends.  If LNC is 
liquidated or dissolved, holders of series A preferred stock will be entitled
to payments of $80.00 per share.  The difference between the aggregate
preference on liquidation value and the financial statement balance for the
series A preferred stock was $1,900,000 at December 31, 1995.  

On June 30, 1995, the owner of LNC's series E and F preferred stock (Dai-ichi,
Mutual Life Insurance Company), which was 5 1/2% cumulative convertible
exchangeable, converted its entire holdings of series E and F preferred stock
to LNC common stock.  Based on a conversion rate of two shares of common stock
for each share of series E and F preferred stock, 2,201,443 shares of series E
and 2,216,454 shares of series F were converted into 8,835,794 shares of
common stock. 

LNC has outstanding one common share purchase right ("Right") on each
outstanding share of LNC's common stock.  A Right will also be issued with
each share of LNC's common stock that becomes outstanding prior to the time
the Rights become exercisable or expire.  If a person or group acquires
beneficial ownership of 20% or more or announces an offer that would result in
beneficial ownership of 30% or more of LNC's outstanding common stock, the
Rights become exercisable and each Right will entitle its holder to purchase
one share of LNC's common stock for $75.  If LNC is acquired in a business
combination transaction, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase, for
$75, common shares of the acquiring company having a market value of $150.  

Alternatively, if a 20% holder were to acquire LNC by means of a reverse
merger in which LNC and its stock survive or were to engage in certain 
"self-dealing" transactions, each Right not owned by the 20% holder would
entitle its holder to purchase, for $75, common stock of LNC having a market
value of $150.  LNC can redeem each Right for one cent at any time prior to
its becoming exercisable.  The Rights expire in November 1996.  As of December
31, 1995, there were 104,185,117 Rights outstanding.

During February 1993, LNC issued 9,200,000 shares of common stock.  The
proceeds of this offering, net of issuance costs, were $316,100,000.

During November 1994, LNC purchased and retired 500,000 shares of common stock
at a total cost of $18,400,000.  

During May 1994, LNC's Articles of Incorporation were amended to increase the
number of authorized shares of common stock from 400,000,000 to 800,000,000.

Earnings per share are computed based on the average number of common shares 
outstanding during each year (1995 - 104,115,650; 1994 - 103,863,196; 1993 -
102,307,356) after assuming conversion of any outstanding series A, E and F
preferred stock.  The effect of stock options is not dilutive in the
computation of earnings per share.



Adjustments to deferred acquisition costs and amounts required to satisfy
policyholder commitments are netted against the Deferred Acquisition Costs
asset account and included with the Future Policy Benefits, Claims and Claim
Expenses liability account on the balance sheet, respectively.  


 -65-

11.  Acquisitions and Sales of Affiliates/Operating Property

In December 1993, LNC recorded a provision for loss of $98,500,000 (also
$98,500,000 after-tax) in the "Other Operations" segment for the sale of
Security-Connecticut Corporation ("Security-Connecticut").  The sale was
completed on February 2, 1994 through an initial public offering and LNC
received cash and notes, net of related expenses, totaling $237,700,000.  The
loss on sale and disposal expenses did not differ materially from the estimate
recorded in the fourth quarter of 1993.  For the year ended December 31, 1993,
Security-Connecticut, which operated in the Life Insurance and Annuities
segment, had revenues of $274,500,000 and net income of $24,000,000.  

In 1994, LNC completed the sale of 71% of EMPHESYS (parent company of
Employers Health Insurance Company, which comprised LNC's Employee Life-Health
Benefit segment) for $244,700,000 of cash, net of related expenses, and a
$50,000,000 promissory note.  A gain on sale of $48,800,000 (also $48,800,000
after-tax) was recognized in 1994 in "Other Operations".  For the year ended
December 31, 1993, EMPHESYS had revenues of $1,304,700,000 and net income of
$55,300,000.  EMPHESYS had revenue and net income of $314,900,000 and
$14,400,000, respectively, during the three months of ownership in 1994.

In October 1995, LNC completed the sale of its remaining 29% ownership in
EMPHESYS.  As a result of this transaction, LNC received cash of $186,900,000
and recorded pre-tax gain on sale of $89,700,000 ($58,300,000 after-tax) in
the "Other Operations" segment.  

In April 1995, LNC completed the acquisition of Delaware Management Holdings,
Inc. ("Delaware").  Delaware provides a variety of asset management services
through its operating companies.  The purchase price, including LNC's expenses
associated with the acquisition, was $305,000,000.  This acquisition also
involved the assumption of $25,000,000 in short-term debt and $180,000,000
(face amount) in long-term debt.  In May 1995, this debt was repaid from the
proceeds of an LNC debt offering of $200,000,000 plus available cash.  This
acquisition, which was accounted for using purchase accounting, resulted in
goodwill of $339,900,000 and other intangible assets of $131,500,000.  The
results of Delaware's operations are included in LNC's consolidated financial
statements from April 3, 1995.  The Delaware acquisition agreement included a
provision for contingent payments of $22,500,000 based on the levels of future
investment management revenues.  Any such additional payments would be
accounted for as goodwill.

In January and April 1995, LNC completed the acquisitions of Liberty Life
Assurance Company and Laurentian Financial Group plc, respectively.  These
companies  provide unit-linked life and pension products in the United
Kingdom.  The combined purchase price was $274,500,000 including the
assumption of $44,000,000 in debt.  These acquisitions, which were accounted
for using purchase accounting, resulted in other intangible assets of
$388,700,000.  The results of these operations are included in LNC's
consolidated financial statements from their respective purchase dates. 

In October 1995, LNC approved a realignment plan for its Property-Casualty
segment, which includes consolidating its field operations from 20 divisional
offices to four regional offices.  Certain of the locations will remain
service offices.  Those office buildings owned by LNC that will not be used as 
regional offices are expected to be sold.  Management has estimated that the
pre-tax costs of realignment and the loss on sale of the office buildings will
approximate $21,100,000 and $28,300,000, respectively ($13,700,000 and
$18,400,000 after-tax, respectively).  Accordingly, income before cumulative
effect of accounting change and net income decreased by $32,100,000 during the
fourth quarter of 1995.


12.  Subsequent Event.

In January 1996, LNC announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to
acquire the group tax-sheltered annuity business of UNUM Corporation's
affiliates.  This purchase is expected to be completed in the form of a
reinsurance transaction with an initial ceding commission of approximately
$70,000,000.  This ceding commission represents the present value of business
in-force and, accordingly, will be classified as other intangible assets upon
the close of this transaction.  This transaction, which is expected to close
in the third quarter of 1996, will increase LNC's assets and policy
liabilities and accruals by approximately $3,200,000,000.  

 -66-

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

Board of Directors
Lincoln National Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lincoln
National Corporation as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995.  Our audits
also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item
14(a).  These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the
Corporation's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Lincoln National 
Corporation at December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the consolidated results of its 
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 1995, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.
 
As discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 1993 the
Corporation changed its method for accounting for postretirement benefits
other than pensions, accounting for impairment of loans, and accounting for
certain investments in debt and equity securities.



                                          Ernst & Young LLP

Fort Wayne, Indiana
February 7, 1996



Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure

There have been no disagreements with LNC's independent auditors which are
reportable pursuant to Item 304 of Regulation S-K.



 -67-

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information for this item relating to directors of LNC is incorporated by
reference to the sections captioned "NOMINEES FOR DIRECTOR", "DIRECTORS
CONTINUING IN OFFICE" and "COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 16(a) OF THE SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934", of LNC's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
scheduled for May 9, 1996.

Executive Officers of the Registrant as of March 1, 1996 were as follows:

Name                      Position with LNC and Business Experience
(Age)**                   During the Past Five Years    
Ian M. Rolland            Chairman and Director, LNC since 1992.
(63)                      President and Director, LNC (1975-1991).  Chief      
                          Executive Officer, LNC since 1977.

Robert A. Anker           President, Chief Operating Officer and Director,   
(54)                      LNC since 1992.  President and Chief Executive       
                          Officer, American States* (1990-1991). 

Jon A. Boscia             President, Chief Operating Officer, Lincoln Life*    
(44)                      since 1994.  Executive Vice President, LNC (1991-
                          1994).  President, Lincoln National Investment       
                          Management Company ("LNIC")* (1991-1994).            
                          Executive Vice President, LNIC* (1985-1991).

George E. Davis           Senior Vice President, LNC since 1993.
(53)                      Vice President, Eastman Kodak Co. (1985-1993).

Jack D. Hunter            Executive Vice President, LNC since 1986.  General
(59)                      Counsel since 1971.

Barbara S. Kowalczyk      Senior Vice President, LNC since 1994.
(45)                      Senior Vice President, LNIC* (1992-1994).  Vice      
                          President LNIC* (1985-1992).
 
F. Cedric McCurley        Chairman and Chief Executive officer, American
(61)                      States* since 1995.  President and Chief             
                          Executive Officer, American States* (1992-1995).     
                          Executive Vice President, American States*           
                          (1986-1991).

H. Thomas McMeekin        Executive Vice President, LNC since 1994.
(43)                      President, LNIC* since 1994.  Senior Vice            
                          President, LNC (1992-1994).  Executive Vice          
                          President, LNIC* (February 1992-November 1992).      
                          Senior Vice President, LNIC* (1987-1992).

Jeffrey J. Nick           Managing Director, Lincoln National (UK) PLC* since
(43)                      1992.  Senior Vice President, LNC (1990-1993).

Richard S. Robertson      Executive Vice President, LNC since 1986. 
(54)

Gabriel L. Shaheen        Executive Vice President, Lincoln Life* since 1994.  
(42)                      Senior Vice President, Lincoln Life* 1991-1994),     
                          Vice President, Lincoln Life* (1987-1991).

Donald L. Van Wyngarden   Second Vice President & Controller, LNC since 1975.
(56)                           

Richard C. Vaughan        Executive Vice President and Chief Financial         
(46)                      Officer, LNC since 1995.  Senior Vice President and  
                          Chief Financial Officer, LNC (1992-1994).  Senior    
                          Vice President, Lincoln Life* (1990-1992).  Vice     
                          President, EQUICOR, Inc. (1988-1990).


 * Denotes a subsidiary of LNC
** Age shown is based on nearest birthdate to March 1, 1996.

 -68-

There is no family relationship between any of the foregoing executive
officers, all of whom are elected annually.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the section cap-

tioned "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" of LNC's Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting scheduled for May 9, 1996.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management

Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the sections
captioned "SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS" and "SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS, NOMINEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" of LNC's Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for May 9, 1996.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the section cap-

tioned "TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENT" of LNC's Proxy Statement for
the Annual Meeting scheduled for May 9, 1996.

PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports 
         on Form 8-K

Item 14(a)(1) Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of Lincoln National Corpora-

tion and subsidiaries are included in Item 8:

   Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1995 and 1994

   Consolidated Statements of Income - Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 

   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Years ended December 31,  
   1995, 1994 and 1993

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 
   and 1993

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

   Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors


Item 14(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules

The following consolidated financial statement schedules of Lincoln National 
Corporation and subsidiaries are included in Item 14(d):

   I - Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related Parties
  II - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
 III - Supplementary Insurance Information
  IV - Reinsurance
   V - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  VI - Supplementary Information Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance        
       Operations

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under
the related instructions, are inapplicable, or the required information is
included in the consolidated financial statements, and therefore have been
omitted.


 -69-

Item 14(a)(3) Listing of Exhibits

The following exhibits of Lincoln National Corporation and subsidiaries are 
included in Item 14(c) - (Note:  The numbers preceding the exhibits correspond
to the specific numbers within Item 601 of Regulation S-K.):

      3(a)  The Articles of Incorporation of LNC as last amended May 12,       
            1994 are incorporated by reference to LNC's Form S-3/A (File No.   
            33-55379) filed with the Commission on September 15, 1994. 

      3(b)  The Bylaws of LNC as last amended January 1, 1992 are              
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) of LNC's Form 10-K for   
            the year ended December 31, 1991 filed with the Commission on      
            March 27, 1992.

             
      4(a)  Indenture of LNC dated as of January 15, 1987 (Commission File 
            No. 33-22658) is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) of 
            LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, filed with
            the Commission on March 27, 1995.

      4(b)  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 1, 1992, to
            Indenture of LNC dated as of January 15, 1987, and Specimen
            Notes for LNC's 7 1/8% Notes due July 15, 1999 (Commission 
            File No. 33-22658) are incorporated by reference to Annex B 
            and Annex C of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on 
            July 7, 1992.

      4(c)  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 1, 1992, to
            Indenture of LNC dated as of January 15, 1987, and Specimen
            Notes for LNC's 7 5/8% Notes due July 15, 2002 (Commission
            File No. 33-22658) are incorporated by reference to Annex B 
            and Annex D of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on 
            July 7, 1992.
  
      4(d)  Rights Agreement dated November 7, 1986 is incorporated by         
            reference to Exhibit 4(e) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended    
            December 31, 1994, filed with the Commission on March 27, 1995.

      4(e)  Indenture of LNC dated as of September 15, 1994, between LNC and
            The Bank of New York, as Trustee, is incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit No. 4(c) of LNC's S-3/A (File No. 33-55379), filed with
            the Commission on September 15, 1994.

      4(f)  Form of Note is incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4(d) to
            LNC's Registration Statement on Form S-3/A (File No. 33-55379),
            filed with the Commission on September 15, 1994.

      4(g)  Form of Zero Coupon Security is incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit No. 4(f) of LNC's Registration Statement on Form S-3/A
            (File No. 33-55379), filed with the Commission on September 15,
            1994.

      4(h)  Specimen of LNC's 9 1/8% Debentures due October 1, 2024
            (Commission File No. 33-55379) is incorporated by reference to 
            Schedule I of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on 
            September 29, 1994.
            
      4(i)  Specimen of LNC's 7 1/4% Debenture due May 15, 2005 (Commission
            File Nos. 33-55379 and 33-59785) is incorporated by reference to 
            Schedule III of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on 
            May 17, 1995. 

     10(a)* The Lincoln National Corporation 1986 Stock Option Incentive Plan
            (Commission File No. 33-13445 and 33-62315) as last amended and 
            restated effective May 12, 1994 is incorporated by reference to 
            Exhibit No.1 of LNC's Proxy filed with the Commission on 
            March 31, 1994.

     10(b)* The Lincoln National Corporation 1982 Stock Option Incentive       
            Plan (Commission File No. 2-77599) as last amended May 7, 1987 
            is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of LNC's Form 10-K 
            for the year ended December 31, 1993, filed with the Commission 
            on March 30, 1994.

 -70-

     10(c)* The Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Salary Continuation   
            Plan as last amended January 1, 1992 is incorporated by reference  
            to Exhibit 10(c) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December    
            31, 1992, filed with the Commission on March 30, 1993.

     10(d)* The Lincoln National Corporation Executive Value Sharing Plan is   
            incorporated by reference to Exhibit No. 4 of LNC's Proxy filed    
            with the Commission on March 31, 1994.

     10(e)* Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Severance Benefit Plan    
            as last amended and restated effective November 9, 1995.

     10(f)* The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors Retirement      
            Plan as last amended March 15, 1990.

     10(g)* The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors Benefits Plan   
            is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of LNC's Form 10-K   
            for the year ended December 31, 1992, filed with the Commission    
            on March 30, 1993. 

     10(h)* Lincoln National Corporation Executive Savings and Profit          
            Sharing Plan as amended January 1, 1992 is incorporated by         
            reference to Exhibit 10(o) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended   
            December 31, 1992, filed with the Commission on March 30, 1993.

     10(i)* Lincoln National Corporation 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee
            Directors (File No. 33-58113) as last amended and restated 
            effective May 10, 1995.

     10(j)* Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Excess Compensation       
            Benefit Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(r) of      
            LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, filed with   
            the Commission on March 30, 1994.

     10(k)* American States Executives Salary Continuation Plan as amended and
            restated effective May 2, 1995.

     10(l)  Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect to the      
            American States' Home Office property.

     10(m)  Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect to LNL's
            Home Office property located at Magnavox Way, Fort Wayne, Indiana.

     10(n)  Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect to LNL's    
            Home Office properties located at Clinton Street and Harrison      
            Street, Fort Wayne, Indiana.

     10(o)  Lease and Agreement dated December 1, 1994 with respect to LNC's
            Corporate Office located at 200 East Berry Street, Fort Wayne,
            Indiana are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) of LNC's 
            Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, filed with the     
            Commission on March 27, 1995.

           *This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or
            arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this form
            pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

     11     Computation of Per Share Earnings. 

     21     List of Subsidiaries of LNC.

     23     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.                

     27     Financial Data Schedule.

     28     Information from Reports Furnished to State Insurance.             
            Regulatory Authorities.  (Data shown on this report is on a        
            "Combined" basis and does not include data for subsidiaries        
            sold.)

 -71-

Item 14(b)  

During the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 1995, no reports on
Form 8-K were filed with the Commission.


Item 14(c)

The exhibits of Lincoln National Corporation and subsidiaries are listed in
Item 14(a)(3) above.


Item 14(d)

The financial statement schedules for Lincoln National Corporation and
subsidiaries follow on pages through 72 - 79.



 -72-



 -73-



 These condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the   
 consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln       
 National Corporation and subsidiaries (see pages 34 through 65).
 
 -74-



 These condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the   
 consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln       
 National Corporation and subsidiaries (see pages 34 through 65).

 -75-



 These condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the   
 consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln       
 National Corporation and subsidiaries (see pages 34 through 65).

 -76-





 -77-


  
 -78-



  -79-





 -80-


               LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
             EXHIBIT INDEX FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                   For the Year Ended December 31, 1995
                                                                      
Exhibit
Number                                                                     
 3(a)   Articles of Incorporation of LNC as last amended 
          May 12, 1994.*                                                     
 3(b)   Bylaws of LNC as last amended January 1, 1992.*                      

 4(a)   Indenture of LNC due January 15, 1987.*                              
 4(b)   Indenture for 7 1/8% due July 15, 1999 and
          Specimen Notes.*
 4(c)   Indenture for 7 5/8% Notes due July 15, 2002 and
          Specimen Notes.*
 4(d)   Rights Agreement dated November 7, 1986.*                            
 4(e)   Indenture of LNC dated as of September 15, 1994.*
 4(f)   Form of Note dated as of September 15, 1994*
 4(g)   Form of Zero Coupon Security dated as of September 15, 1994*
 4(h)   Specimen Debenture for 9 1/8% Notes due October 1, 2024.*
 4(i)   Specimen of 7 1/4% Debenture due May 15, 2005*

10(a)   Lincoln National Corporation 1986 Stock Option
          Incentive Plan.*                                                   
10(b)   Lincoln National Corporation 1982 Stock Option
          Incentive Plan.*                                                   
10(c)   The Lincoln National Corporation Executives'
          Salary Continuation Plan.*
10(d)   The Lincoln National Corporation Executive Value
          Sharing Plan.*
10(e)   Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Severance
          Benefit Plan as last amended November 9, 1995.                     
10(f)   The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors
          Retirement Plan as last amended March 15, 1990.                  
10(g)   The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors
          Benefits Plan.*
10(h)   The Lincoln National Corporation Executive Savings and
          Profit Sharing Plan as last amended January 1, 1992.*
10(i)   Lincoln National Corporation 1993 Stock Plan for Non-
          Employee Directors as last amended May 10, 1995.                 
10(j)   Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Excess
          Compensation Benefit Plan.*                                     
10(k)   American States Executives' Salary Continuation Plan as last
          amended May 2, 1995.                                            
10(l)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect
          to the American States' home office property.                     
10(m)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect
          to LNL's home office property.                                   
10(n)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect
          to additional LNL home office property.                           
10(o)   Lease dated February 14, 1991, with respect to LNC's 
          Corporate Offices.*                                                

11      Computation of Per Share Earnings.                                 
21      List of Subsidiaries of LNC.                                      
23      Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.                
27      Financial Data Schedule.                                          
28      Information from Reports Furnished to State Insurance 
          Regulatory Authorities.  [Data shown on this report is on       
          a "Combined" basis and does not include data for 
          subsidiaries sold.]

        *Incorporated by Reference

 -81-

                              Signature Page

                       LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

Pursuant to the requirements
of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act      By /s/ Ian M. Rolland          March 14, 1996
of 1934, LNC has duly caused        Ian M. Rolland,
this report to be signed on         (Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and 
its behalf by the under-             Director)
signed, thereunto duly
authorized.                      By /s/ Robert A. Anker         March 14, 1996
                                    Robert A. Anker,
                                    (President, Chief Operating Officer and
                                     Director)

                                 By /s/ Richard C. Vaughan      March 14, 1996
                                    Richard C. Vaughan,
                                    (Executive Vice President and Chief        
                                     Financial Officer)

                                 By /s/ Donald L. Van Wyngarden March 14, 1996
                                    Donald L. Van Wyngarden
                                    (Second Vice President and Controller)


Pursuant to the requirements     By /s/ J. Patrick Barrett      March 14, 1996
of the Securities Exchange          J. Patrick Barrett
Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by         By /s/ Thomas D. Bell, Jr.     March 14, 1996
the following Directors             Thomas D. Bell, Jr
of LNC on the date indicated.
                                 By /s/ Daniel R. Efroymson     March 14, 1996
                                    Daniel R. Efroymson
                             
                                 By /s/ Harry L. Kavetas        March 14, 1996
                                    Harry L. Kavetas

                                 By /s/ M. Leanne Lachman       March 14, 1996
                                    M. Leanne Lachman

                                 By /s/ Earl L. Neal            March 14, 1996
                                    Earl L. Neal

                                 By /s/ John M. Pietruski       March 14, 1996
                                    John M. Pietruski

                                 By /s/ Jill S. Ruckelshaus     March 14, 1996
                                    Jill S. Ruckelshaus

                                 By /s/ Gordon A. Walker        March 14, 1996
                                    Gordon A. Walker

                                 By /s/ Gilbert R. Whitaker,Jr. March 14, 1996
                                    Gilbert R. Whitaker,Jr.













