
10-K
TEXT




                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
                                 FORM 10-K

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended DECEMBER 31, 1993    Commission File Number 1-6028

                         LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             Indiana                               35-1140070             
     (State of incorporation)         (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

           200 East Berry Street, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46802-2706

                    (Address of principal executive offices)

              Registrant's telephone number         (219) 455-2000

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                            Name of each exchange on
        Title of each class                     which registered    

Common Stock (Without Par Value)            New York, Chicago, Pacific,
                                              London and Tokyo Stock 
                                              Exchanges
Common Share Purchase Rights                New York, Chicago and Pacific
                                              Stock Exchanges
$3.00 Cumulative Convertible Preferred      New York and Chicago Stock
  Stock, Series A (Without Par Value)         Exchanges

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                              None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes [ x ]     No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to 
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

As of March 4, 1994, 94,217,427 shares of Common Stock were outstanding. The 
aggregate market value of such shares (based upon the closing price of these 
shares on the New York Stock Exchange) held by nonaffiliates was approximately
$3,827,600,000.

Select materials from the Proxy statement for the Annual meeting of 
Shareholders, scheduled for May 12, 1994, have been incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Form 10-K.

The exhibit index to this report is located on page 69.


                               Page 1 of 167

                                       -2-

*PART I

Item 1.  Business

Lincoln National Corporation ("LNC") is a holding company.  Through subsidiary
companies, LNC operates multiple insurance businesses.  Operations are divided
into four major business segments, 1) Property-Casualty, 2) Life Insurance and
Annuities, 3) Life-Health Reinsurance and 4) Employee Life-Health Benefits. 
Although one of the subsidiaries held by LNC was formed as early as 1905, LNC
itself was formed in 1968.  LNC is an Indiana corporation with its principal
office at 200 East Berry Street, Fort Wayne, Indiana 46802-2706.  As of
December 31, 1993, there were 215 persons on the staff of LNC.  Total
employment of Lincoln National Corporation at December 31, 1993 on a
consolidated basis was 11,890.

Although acquisition and disposition activity has occurred, there has been no 
activity of this nature during the past five years involving all or
predominately all of a business segment.

Numeric presentations showing revenues, pre-tax income, and assets for LNC's
four major business segments and other operations in which LNC engages through
its subsidiaries are included in this report as part of the consolidated
financial statements (see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements on
page 54).  The LNC "Other Operations" category includes LNC's investment
management companies and unallocated corporate items, including corporate
investment income, interest expense on short-term and long-term borrowings,
and unallocated corporate overhead expenses.

Following is a brief description of the four major business segments:

1.  Property-Casualty
Property-Casualty insurance includes automobile, boiler and machinery, 
workers' compensation, fire and allied lines, inland marine, home-owners,
general casualty, special risks and multiple peril insurance.  Fidelity and
surety bonds are also included within property-casualty insurance.

Most of LNC's property-casualty business is conducted through American States
Insurance Company ("American States"), headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana,
and its property-casualty subsidiaries.  These companies operate a multi-line
property-casualty insurance business in most states of the United States
through 22 semi-autonomous division offices with broad authority for
underwriting, agency contracting, marketing and claims settlement for most
lines of business.  The distribution network involves approximately 5,000
independent local agencies.

Other companies within this business segment include Lincoln National
Specialty Insurance Company ("LNSIC") which underwrites select coverages in
the sports and entertainment market and Lincoln National Reinsurance Company
which is a property-casualty company that is involved in servicing a closed
block of reinsurance business.

Approximately 3,900 employees are involved in this business segment.

2.  Life Insurance and Annuities
The primary company within this business segment is The Lincoln National Life
Insurance Company ("LNL").  Other companies within this business segment
include, Security-Connecticut Life Insurance Company ("Security-
Connecticut"), First Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Company ("First Penn"), 
American States Life Insurance Company ("American States Life"), and Lincoln
National (UK) PLC.

LNL, the 6th largest U.S. stockholder-owned life insurance Company (1992
Fortune Rankings of 50 Largest Life Insurance Companies by Assets) is an
Indiana corporation headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana.  A network of 36
life insurance agencies, independent life insurance brokers, insurance
agencies located within financial institutions and specifically trained
employees sells fixed annuities, variable annuities, pension products,
universal life, variable universal life and other individual insurance
coverages in most states of the United States and various foreign countries
including Canada.  The distribution network includes approximately 1,900
career agents, 13,000 brokers and access to 42,000 stockbrokers and financial
planners.

                                       -3-

Security-Connecticut is a Connecticut corporation headquartered in Avon,
Connecticut.  It specializes in writing universal life and term insurance
through independent general agencies in most states of the United States.  A
wholly owned subsidiary of Security-Connecticut, Lincoln Security Life
Insurance Company, operates in the state of New York.  In January 1993, LNC
announced it would seek a buyer for Security-Connecticut.  The sale of the
common stock of Security-Connecticut Corporation (a recently formed holding
company to which ownership of the operating companies was transferred prior to
the sale) was completed on February 2, 1994 through an Initial Public Offering
(IPO).
   
First Penn, headquartered in Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois, specializes in the
writing and administration of universal life products through independent
marketing companies and the sale of LNL's annuities through insurance agencies
located within financial institutions in most states of the United States. 

American States Life is an Indiana corporation headquartered in Indianapolis,
Indiana.  Its products, principally universal life and term insurance, are
marketed through independent local agencies (who also offer property-casualty
insurance) in most states of the United States.
   
Lincoln National (UK) PLC is a United Kingdom company headquartered in
Wembley, England that is licensed to do business throughout the United
Kingdom.  The principal products produced by this operation known as unit-
linked assets are similar to U.S. produced universal life products.  This
company was previously named Cannon Assurance Limited, but was renamed
following the acquisition and merger of another UK company that previously
operated as Citibank Life (UK).  Lincoln National (UK) is the 16th largest
writer of unit-linked new business premiums in the UK as measured in 1992
(Money Management Survey-New Business Trends, published in June 1993.)  

Approximately 4,325 employees are involved in this business segment.

3.  Life-Health Reinsurance
The primary companies within this business segment are Lincoln National Life
Reinsurance Company ("LNLR"), Lincoln National Reassurance Company, ("LNRAC"),
Lincoln National Health & Casualty Insurance Company ("LNH&C") and LNL.  These
companies are headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana.  A broad range of risk 
management products and services are offered to insurance companies, HMOs,
self-funded employers and other primary market risk accepting organizations
throughout the United States and economically attractive international
markets.  Marketing efforts are conducted primarily through the efforts of a
reinsurance sales staff.  Some business is presented by reinsurance
intermediaries and brokers.  The reinsurance organization is one of the
largest life-health reinsurers worldwide (Swiss Re survey, May 1993).   

LNH&C offers accident and health products and services on both a direct and
reinsurance basis.
   
Other companies in this business segment include various general business
corporations and foreign reinsurance companies.  The general business
corporations are used to support the segment's sales, service and
administration efforts.  One of the general business corporations, Lincoln
National Risk Management Inc. has developed and patented a knowledge based 
underwriting system ("Life Underwriting System") which it is marketing to
other insurance companies.  The foreign reinsurance corporations are used to
support LNC's U.S. companies through reinsuring select business.

Approximately 575 employees are involved in this business segment.

4.  Employee Life-Health Benefits
This segment's business is conducted through Employers Health Insurance 
Company ("Employers Health"), a Wisconsin Corporation, headquartered in Green
Bay, Wisconsin.  Employers Health manufactures and distributes group life and
health insurance, managed health care, dental, disability products and
flexible benefit administrative services with a primary focus on the small
business market (companies with 2-150 employees).  It also provides
administrative services to medium and large self-funded accounts in Wisconsin
and is extending such services to other core market areas for self-funded
groups of 100 - 1,000 lives.  Employers Health has a strong market position in
the Midwest, California, Texas, Colorado, Georgia, Tennessee, Maryland and
Virginia, representing approximately 80 percent of its in-force business.  In 
December 1993, LNC announced it would attempt to sell a portion of its 

                                       -4-

ownership in Employers Health through an initial public offering (IPO) of
Common Stock in a newly formed holding company known as EMPHESYS Financial
Group, Inc.  In March 1994, this IPO was completed and resulted in the sale of
64% of the company.

Approximately 2,590 employees are involved in this segment.

Liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses ("LAE") for the property-
casualty business segment are estimated at the end of each accounting period 
using case-basis evaluations and statistical projections.  These liabilities 
include estimates for the ultimate cost of claims 1) which have been reported
but not settled and 2) which have been incurred but not yet reported.  A
provision for inflation is implicitly considered in the estimated liability as
the development of the estimated liability is based on historical data which
reflects past inflation and on other factors which are judged to be
appropriate modifiers of past experience.  Adjustments to previously
established estimates are reflected in current operating results along with
initial estimates for claims arising within the current accounting period. 
Further, beginning in 1993 such estimates no longer recognize the effects of
reinsurance recoverable because such amounts are now recorded as an asset with
the adoption of FAS 113 (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements
on page 38).


     
The reconciliation shows an increase (decrease) of ($26.5) million, $47.0
million, and $12.3 million to the December 31, 1992, 1991 and 1990 liability
for losses and LAE, respectively, for claims arising in prior years.  Such
reserve adjustments, which affected current operations during 1993, 1992 and
1991, respectively, resulted from developed losses for prior years being
different than were anticipated when the liabilities for losses and LAE were
originally estimated.



                                      -5-                

The following table shows the development of the estimated liability for loss 
and LAE for the ten year period prior to 1993.  Each column shows the 
liability as originally estimated and cumulative data on payments and re-
estimated liabilities for that accident year and all prior accident years, 
making up that calendar year-end liability; and all amounts are reflected net
of reinsurance recoverable for all years.  As a result of adopting FAS 113 in
1993, the 1993 liability is $225 million less than reported in the financial
statements.  The resulting redundancy  (deficiency) is also a cumulative
amount for that year and all prior years.  The reserves include an estimated
liability for unreported environmental losses.  Prior to 1993, this liability
was generally recognized in the more recent accident years and allocated to
the appropriate accident year when reported.  In 1993, this estimated
liability for unreported environmental losses was reallocated to more
appropriate accident years and as a result increased the deficiency for the
period 1983 and prior.  Beginning in 1986, the overall reserves were
strengthened and this action has been maintained as evidenced by the
cumulative development reported for 1987 through 1993.  Conditions and trends
that have affected the development of these liabilities in the past may not
necessarily recur in the future; therefore, it would not be appropriate to use
this cumulative history in the projection of future performance.



In order to protect itself against losses greater than the amount it is  
willing to retain on any one risk or event, LNC's insurance subsidiaries 
purchase reinsurance from unaffiliated insurance companies (see note 7 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 50).  

                                         -6-

In order to maximize returns on its investment portfolio, LNC's investment
personnel continually monitor both current investment income produced by the
portfolio and current market values of the portfolio.  The type, maturity,
quality and liquidity of investments selected to place in the segmented
portfolios vary depending on the nature of the underlying liabilities that are
being supported.

All the areas of business activity in which LNC is involved are highly 
competitive because of the marketing structure and the large number of 
competing companies.

At the end of 1992, the latest year for which data is available, there were
approximately 1,200 groups and unaffiliated  individual companies selling
property and casualty insurance.  LNC's group of  companies writing
property-casualty insurance ranked 25th in net written  premiums for 1992
(A.M. Best Aggregates and Averages) among all such groups  and companies.

At the end of 1992 there were more than 2,100 life insurance companies in the
United States and LNL was the 13th largest stock and mutual life insurance
company in the United States based on assets and 15th based on insurance
in-force (1992 Fortune Ranking of 50 Largest Life Insurance Companies by
Assets).

The business of LNC's property-casualty, life insurance and annuities, 
life-health reinsurance and employee life-health benefits business segments, 
in common with those of other insurance companies, is subject to regulation 
and supervision by the states, territories and foreign countries in which 
they are admitted to do business. The laws of these jurisdictions generally 
establish supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to 
granting and revoking licenses to transact business, regulating trade 
practices, licensing agents, prescribing and approving policy forms, 
regulating premium rates for some lines of business, establishing reserve 
requirements, regulating competitive matters, prescribing the form and 
content of financial statements and reports, and regulating the type and 
amount of investments permitted.  The ability to continue an insurance 
business is dependent upon the maintenance of the licenses in the various 
jurisdictions.

Because of the nature of the insurance business, there is no single customer 
or group of customers upon whom the business is dependent.  Factors such as 
backlog, raw materials, patents (including trademarks, licenses, franchises, 
and any other concessions held), seasonality, or environmental impact do not 
have a material effect upon such business.  However, within LNC's Life-Health
Reinsurance segment, Lincoln National Risk Management, Inc. does own the
patent for a knowledge based underwriting system known as "Life Underwriting 
System."  LNC does not have a separate unit that conducts market research. 
Research activities related to new products or services or the improvement of
existing products or services is completed by persons within the business
segments.  Expenses related to such activities are not material.  Also, sales
are not dependent upon select geographic areas and foreign sales are not
material in relationship to either LNC's total sales or sales of individual
business segments.        

Item 2. Properties

LNC and the various operating businesses headquartered in Fort Wayne lease 
approximately 1.3 million square feet of office space in the Fort Wayne area.  
Approximately 1.0 million square feet of space is leased by operating 
businesses headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana; Oakbrook Terrace, Illinois;
Green Bay, Wisconsin; and Wembley, London England.  In addition, branch
offices owned or leased for all of the operating businesses referenced above
as well as the space for some smaller operations total approximately 1.2
million square feet.  As shown in the notes to consolidated financial
statements, (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on page 49)
the rental expense on operating leases for office space and equipment for
continuing operations totaled $55.9 million for 1993 of which $49.6 million 
was for office space.  This discussion regarding properties does not include
information on investment properties.

                                         -7-  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

LNC and its subsidiaries are involved in various pending or threatened legal
proceedings arising from the conduct of their business.  In some instances, 
these proceedings include claims for punitive damages and similar types of 
relief in unspecified or substantial amounts, in addition to amounts for 
alleged contractual liability or requests for equitable relief.  After 
consultation with counsel and a review of available facts, it is management's 
opinion that these proceedings ultimately will be resolved without materially 
affecting the consolidated financial statements of LNC.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of 1993, no matters were submitted to security 
holders for a vote.

       
PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters



Exchanges:  New York, Chicago, Pacific, London and Tokyo.

Stock Exchange Symbol:  LNC

Dividend Guideline:
The dividend on LNC's Common Stock is determined each quarter by the
Corporation's Board of Directors.  The Board takes into consideration the
financial condition of the Corporation, including current and expected 
earnings, projected cash flows and anticipated financing needs.  The Board 
also considers the ability to maintain the dividend through bad times as well 
as good so that the dividend rate would need to be reduced only under unusual 
circumstances.  One guideline that the Board has found useful in recent years 
is to consider a dividend approximately equal to five percent of the book
value per share with such book value computed excluding the impact of marking
its securities available-for-sale to fair value.

Notes:
1.  The data for 1992 and the first quarter of 1993 has been adjusted to 
reflect the effects of a June 1993 two-for-one split of LNC's Common Stock.

2.  At December 31, 1993, the number of shareholders of record of LNC's 
Common Stock was 13,600.

3.  The payment of dividends to shareholders is subject to the restrictions
described in notes 5, Supplemental Financial Data, and 7, Restrictions, 
Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements (see
pages 45 and 48) and is discussed in the Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Information (see page 28).

                                          -8-




Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations

The pages to follow review LNC's results of operations and financial condi-
tion.  Historical financial information is presented and analyzed.  Where
appropriate, factors that may affect future financial performance are 
identified and discussed.

On pages 9 through 22, the financial results of our business segments, 
investments and other operations are presented and discussed.  Within these
business segment discussions reference is made to "Income from Operations"
(see definition in item 6 above).  Pages 23 through 28 discuss factors that
have affected specific elements of the consolidated financial statements as
well as information pertaining to LNC as a whole. 

This "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations" should be read in conjunction with the audited financial
statements, including the notes thereto, presented on pages 30 through 54.

                                          -9-


In 1993, the Property-Casualty segment, primarily American States Insurance 
Companies, produced its second consecutive year of improving profitability 
and its best results in four years.  Income from operations increased 
substantially to $133.9 million from $77.6 million a year ago.  The combined 
loss and expense ratio improved 5.2 points to 107.5% from the segment's 1992 
experience of 112.7%.  More than half of this improvement is attributed to 
the ongoing recovery in underwriting results. The programs implemented in 
recent years to counteract the uncertainties of a changing market have firmly
taken hold.  Fewer catastrophe losses during the year for American States
account for the remainder of the combined ratio improvement.  

American States' favorable financial performance in 1993 resulted from a 
combination of being able to sustain strong results on its preferred book of 
personal lines business while making significant progress to improve results 
on its high quality book of small commercial business.  The company is 
focused on specializing in these areas and continues to provide significant 
value for customers, shareholders and agents. 

Return to Profitability
In the last few years, industry observers have watched for traditional signs 
marking the beginning of a cycle upturn.  American States' management decided
several years ago it would no longer wait for a general industry recovery and
took purposeful measures, counter to the industry, to bring its business back
to profitability.  The company began a process of focusing underwriting
efforts on those geographies and product lines which have historically
provided better than average returns while de-emphasizing those lines and
areas of less profitable experience.  As a result of these activities,
American States' profitability has returned to levels superior to the general
property-casualty industry. 

The aggressive restructuring of the book of business did result in a moderate
reduction in premium volume.  For 1993, direct written premiums decreased 12%. 
While we're currently continuing to see a reduction in the commercial lines
premium volume, we have relative stability in premium volume in the personal
lines business.  We anticipate there will be an aggregate positive change in
premium volume in the latter part of 1994. 


                                         -10-

Restructuring
In 1993, LNC divested two minor operations in an effort to streamline and 
focus its resources on those businesses that have the greatest potential for 
profitable growth.  The business of the American Union, a small property-
casualty reinsurance affiliate, was unable to contribute to earnings in a 
significant manner because the company lacked substantial size.  K&K 
Insurance Group, Inc., a specialty risk insurer, did not strategically fit 
LNC's underwriting approach nor its definition of "main street" business 
risks.  

Personal Lines
American States' personal lines business continued to show strong improvement
in 1993.  The combined ratio improved to 103.0% from 105.5% a year ago. 
Approximately 40% of the company's total net written premiums are from the
personal lines business.  The preferred private passenger automobile and
homeowners markets represent 86% of the personal lines business. 

Over the last five years, the company worked to improve private passenger
automobile pricing and profitability by writing all new business in the
preferred sector.  This strategy has been successful, returning this line to 
a position of profitability.  

In the homeowners line, American States also continues to emphasize the 
preferred sector of the market.  While standard homeowners business is still 
written, an increasing percentage of new premium written in 1993 was in the 
preferred sector.  Homeowners has been a troubled line for the industry 
because of the mismatch between coverage purchased and actual replacement 
costs.  American States undertook an aggressive program to improve the 
profitability of this business line over the last two years.  Each homeowners
policy has been evaluated to ensure that the amount of insurance purchased
does indeed correlate to the current property value.  

Commercial Lines
In the commercial lines, American States is focused on serving those markets 
where it can deliver to its customer base the greatest service levels and 
efficiencies its automated systems can provide.  American States defines this
market as small-to-medium-sized commercial "main street" business risks.
Selected larger accounts with low-hazard risk characteristics are also among
American States' current and potential client base.  

The commercial lines combined ratio improved to 110.3% in 1993 from 116.5% in
1992.  The 6.2 points of total improvement is the result of 4.6 points of  
basic underlying improvement with the remainder attributable to fewer 
catastrophic losses.  Management anticipates more selective underwriting, 
geographic repositioning of exposures and a continuation of overall pricing 
increases will result in greater profitability and a slowing and subsequent 
reversal of the decline in premium levels. 

Product Distribution
American States distributes its products through a unique network of 22 
semi-autonomous division offices across the United States which maintain 
relationships with approximately 5,000 independent local agencies.  This 
"multi-regional" structure allows each division office to function as an 
independent operation with broad authority for underwriting, agency 
contracting, marketing and claims settlement.  Nearly all of the agencies are
electronically interfaced with the division offices.  American States
continues to realize one of the lowest internal expense ratios in the 
industry while at the same time providing distinctive levels of underwriting 
and claims service.  

Investment Income 
Paralleling the decline in investment income throughout the property-casualty
industry, American States' net investment income after taxes fell to $217.0
million in 1993 versus $242.4 million in 1992.  As premium levels declined,
the amount of funds available for new investment also decreased.  In addition,
the general decline in interest rates during 1993 has resulted in lower
investment yields.  

                                         -11-

Outlook
In early 1994, the property-casualty industry experienced two significant 
catastrophic events:  the Southern California earthquake and the Eastern and 
Midwestern winter freeze.  Based on information currently available,  
American States estimates it will pay approximately $15 million, pre-tax, for
claims on the earthquake, while the freeze will result in claims of about $18
million, pre-tax.  The industry currently estimates property-casualty claims
from both catastrophes may reach more than $3 billion. 

American States is optimistic that its methodology for operating in a 
changing environment will continue to yield stronger profitability and 
opportunities for growth.  Absent further unusually severe catastrophic 
losses, we expect that 1994 will be our third consecutive year of increased 
property-casualty earnings.  



The Life Insurance and Annuities segment produced an all time high income 
from operations of $175.3 million, a 16% increase over 1992.  This reflects 
record results in the majority of operations that comprise the business 
segment.  Earnings were affected by an unusually large charge of $20.5 
million, after-tax, for guaranty fund assessments.  This is $16.3 million 
greater than the previous year's assessment.  In addition, there was an 
unusually large $23.2 million, after-tax, credit arising from an accelerated 
amortization of discount on mortgage-backed securities caused by interest 
rate declines.    

                                         -12-

Our strategy with respect to mortgage-backed securities has included the 
purchase of securities with lower underlying interest rates, at a discount.  
The accounting for such securities provides that the discount is to be 
amortized over the expected life of the investment to produce an estimated 
constant effective yield.  However, even on the lower interest rate 
securities, repayments generally increase and the expected duration of the 
investment shortens.  This releases additional discount and increases 
investment income.  The significant change in interest rates in 1993 coupled 
with the implementation of new investment computer software in the fourth 
quarter released the $23.2 million of additional discount into investment 
income.  The new software allows us to calculate more accurately the 
estimated constant effective yields on these securities.  

Lincoln Life Progress 
The Life Insurance and Annuities segment made substantial progress in 1993 
toward its goal of comprehensively streamlining and integrating the various 
units selling products under the Lincoln Life banner.  These actions are 
aimed at transforming an already substantial operation with a wide range of 
asset accumulation and income protection products into one with sustainable 
profitability, well above-average growth potential, and benchmark product and
service capabilities.  

During the year, Lincoln Life, our flagship life insurance company, completed
a progressive analytical effort.  The goal of this self-analysis was to
re-examine all tasks and functions and to determine the value each function
adds to customer service and sales efforts.  This analysis resulted in a
clearer vision of Lincoln Life's strengths and capabilities and a reinforced
commitment to increase the market visibility of the Lincoln Life brand name.  

Security-Connecticut Divested
In early 1993, LNC announced that as part of the restructuring of the Lincoln
Life operations, it would consider divesting Security-Connecticut 
Corporation, an affiliate specializing in sales of universal life and term 
life insurance through independent insurance brokers.  With the decision to 
rebuild the visibility of the Lincoln Life brand name, Security-Connecticut's
distribution system no longer fit with Lincoln Life's distribution strategy.  

In October, LNC filed a registration statement for an initial public offering
of 8.5 million shares of Security-Connecticut common stock, representing 100%
of Lincoln Life's interest in this affiliate.  The offering was completed at
$22 per share on February 2, 1994.  Please refer to "Other Operations" on page
32 for more detail on how the sale affected LNC's net income. 

Going forward, the proceeds from the sale will be reinvested in Lincoln Life 
to support growth of its life insurance and annuities operations.  Lincoln 
Life agents will have the ability to continue selling Security-Connecticut 
term life insurance products for at least two years.  

Lincoln National UK Positioned for Growth
In another restructuring move, LNC completed its first strategic acquisition 
in six years.  Cannon-Lincoln, its life insurance affiliate in the United 
Kingdom, consolidated with Citibank Life UK following LNC's acquisition of
that company to form Lincoln National (UK) PLC.  This acquisition effectively
doubled the size of LNC's United Kingdom operations.  The acquisition is part
of LNC's corporate strategy to grow its UK operations to ensure that it
continues to be a significant player in the UK life and pension markets. 
Lincoln National, is the 16th largest writer of unit-linked new business
premiums in the UK as measured in 1992.  (Money Management Survey-New
Business Trends, published June 1993).

Distribution
Lincoln Life's core strengths are the variety of markets it serves and the 
expansive portfolio of products it offers.  Unlike many of its single-
product, single-channel competitors, Lincoln Life offers a portfolio of 
insurance and retirement planning products through multiple distributors.  It
sells life insurance through approximately 1,900 career agents and 13,000 
independent agents and wholesalers.  It sells annuities, not just through 
these channels, but also through 42,000 stockbrokers, financial planners and 
a wide range of financial institutions.  In general, Lincoln Life's products 
and services are engineered to meet the financial security needs of middle- 
to-upper income professionals and small-business owners.

                                         -13-

Lincoln Life Annuities 
Lincoln Life's annuities operation produced another year of record earnings. 
Income from operations increased 29% to $79.2 million and annuity assets 
under management grew 27% to $18.4 billion.  Maintaining excellent services 
for contractholders and delivering attractive investment returns in an 
environment of lower interest rates played an important part in this 
performance.  Measured by individual annuity deposits in 1992, Lincoln Life 
was recognized as being the leading seller of individual annuities in the 
United States (Best's Review, Life-Health Edition, November 1993).

Another of Lincoln Life's unique marketing advantages is its ability and 
commitment to continually improve the service it provides to the distributors
and owners of its annuities.  In 1993, the company established electronic
interfaces to transmit applications to and from many of the broker/dealers,
simplifying and increasing the speed of the application process.  

In 1994, the operation will enhance its annuity products with additional fund
alternatives and options, including a wider selection of outside investment
managers.  New product development remains active in order to meet the
changing needs of the marketplace. 

Lincoln Life Pensions
Lincoln Life's pension operations had a banner year, earning a record $30.6 
million and increasing assets under management by 10% to $6.8 billion.  Among
the pension products the company sells, the 401(k) product continues to be in
great demand among employers who wish to provide their employees the option of
a contributory retirement savings benefit in addition to or in place of a
defined benefit upon retirement.  Lincoln Life introduced a new version of the
401(k) product in 1993 with new fund options to meet the needs of this growing
employer market. 

Opportunistic sales in Guaranteed Interest Contracts (GICs) continue as a  
steady source of pension earnings. Low acquisition costs and an integrated 
investment strategy give the GIC unit the flexibility to bid on contracts 
selectively, when adequate profit margins are available.  

Lincoln Life -- Life/Health
Lincoln Life's life/health operations sell a wide range of life insurance 
products including universal life, variable universal life, disability income
and long-term care products.  Income from operations increased to $31.4
million in 1993.  Variable universal life sales increased by 75% in 1993.  

The variable universal life product has been increasingly attractive to 
individuals seeking returns greater than those generally available in the 
current low interest rate environment.  Universal life account values, 
including both the variable and fixed products, increased more than 11% to 
$1.6 billion during 1993.

In recent years, disability income claim experience had been deteriorating.  
By 1992, it had become clear that additional reserves were needed to avoid 
future losses from this product, and such reserving action was taken at that 
time.  In addition, new management with disability income experience was 
brought into the product line.  Other corrective actions included modifying 
the design of the product's basic underwriting and benefit structure,
strengthening claims administration and tracking procedures, and increasing
rates.  These actions were completed while maintaining the marketplace
competitiveness of the product. As a result of these changes, the disability
income product returned to profitability in 1993. 

American States Life Insurance Company
American States Life contributed a record $12.1 million to 1993 income from 
operations.  This affiliate sells universal life, term life insurance and 
annuity products, distributing them through the American States property-
casualty independent agency network.  Sales remained level in 1993 and in- 
force business grew by 5% despite actions related to our property-casualty 
operations which reduced the number of independent agents distributing the 
product. 

                                         -14-

First Penn-Pacific
First Penn-Pacific posted a sizeable increase in income from operations as 
increased investment income contributed to record earnings in both the life 
insurance and annuities units.  Earnings from the life insurance unit also 
benefitted from improved mortality as income from operations nearly doubled 
to $9.9 million.  Annuity earnings increased 37% to $17.3 million as annuity 
assets, after coinsurance, grew to $1.8 billion.  First Penn underwrites and  
distributes universal life through independent marketing companies and 
administers and distributes annuities, including Lincoln National Life 
annuities, through financial institutions. 

Lincoln National UK PLC
Lincoln National (UK) PLC, formerly Cannon-Lincoln, produced earnings of 
$11.8 million in 1993, a 28% increase in income from operations.  These 
results primarily reflect the successful consolidation with the Citibank Life
operations.  Lincoln National UK markets life and pension products, similar to
variable universal life policies, through more than 1,700 career agents across
the United Kingdom.

FAS 115
Effective December 31, 1993, LNC adopted Financial Accounting Standard 115 
(FAS 115), which results in the inclusion in Shareholders' Equity of the 
unrealized gain or loss on fixed-income securities, subject to certain 
adjustments.  The December 31, 1993 book value of $39.39 per share includes 
$8.85 of unrealized gains on securities.

Gains, whether realized or unrealized, on securities that support long-term 
life insurance and annuity contracts are expected to be used to support life 
insurance and annuity benefits.  If there are losses, those losses would 
generally be recovered from reduced future insurance and annuity payments.  
Net Income and Shareholders' Equity now include realized and unrealized, 
respectively, gains and losses on securities, part of which will be needed to
support insurance and annuity benefits.

Current accounting standards do not require or permit adjustment of insurance
and annuity reserves to recognize the full effect of these realized and
unrealized gains and losses on future benefit payments, unless there is a
contractual obligation which requires the attribution of these gains or losses
to policyholders.

We believe that an appropriate adjustment for these future benefits as of 
December 31, 1993 would increase policy reserves and reduce Shareholders' 
Equity by $665.3 million, net of taxes, or $6.45 per share.  If Shareholders'
Equity were calculated on this adjusted basis, it would be $32.94 per share. 
These adjustments reflect the reversal of interest related fixed income
unrealized gains and the deferral and amortization of such realized gains from
portfolios supporting life and annuity products.

Outlook
In 1994, efforts will continue to streamline and bring greater focus to the 
identity of Lincoln Life and its nationwide network of agencies.  One 
strategy that will be implemented during the year will involve gathering our 
life insurance agency offices under a common banner.  They will all be 
members of the Lincoln Financial Group. 

Lincoln Life will continue to find opportunities to apply its knowledge of 
the retirement marketplace and the investment markets to continue growing its
life insurance and annuities operations.  In 1994, Lincoln Life's agency 
system will be the primary distributor for LNC's new family of mutual funds, 
the Lincoln Advisor Funds.

We are encouraged by the growth in sales of Lincoln Life's life insurance 
products.  It appears that this growth is continuing into 1994.  We 
anticipate that annuity assets will continue to grow near the high rate of 
recent years. 

                                         -15-


The Life-Health Reinsurance segment, comprised of Lincoln National 
Reinsurance Cos. (LNRC), reported 1993 income from operations of $18.9 
million.  This included a loss of $51.0 million from disability income 
reinsurance, largely from reserve strengthening.  Reinsurance products other 
than disability income produced earnings of $69.9 million.  Thus, strong 
performances in the individual life, group and international lines of 
business were overshadowed by the poor results in the disability income 
reinsurance area.  In 1992, the segment earnings of $58.3 million included a 
loss from disability income of $8.7 million. 

Customer Focus
LNRC provides a full range of risk management products and consulting 
services to four primary customer groups: insurance companies in the United
States and selected international markets, health maintenance organizations
(HMOs), self-funded employer groups with risk management needs, and other
primary risk-accepting organizations.  An exclusive network of account
executives and sales specialists distributes products with a consultative
client approach.  Based upon LNRC's competitive analysis of premium volume for
the year ended December 31, 1992, it is clear that the long-term business
relationships and the value added in providing unique client solutions
continue to position LNRC as the leading life-health reinsurer in the United
States.   

Disability Income 
The reinsurance industry's profitability in the disability income business has
been adversely affected by several external factors.  These included
consolidation among the direct disability income writers, lower interest
rates, and the white-collar recession's effect on the professional market. 
The key competitive factors in the marketplace became large amounts of monthly
income replacement and liberal benefit definitions for non-cancelable policies
which do not provide any means to correct underpricing. 

In 1990, LNRC, then the largest reinsurer of disability income, began to 
perceive problems developing in the market.  The company took action to apply
its risk management skills to those aspects of the business it could 
positively affect.  This included increasing rates and tightening underwriting
standards.  One consequence of these actions was a reduction in new business
by 67% since 1990.

                                          -16-

Because of the inability to correct pricing on existing in-force business, 
and in order to manage its exposure, LNRC expanded its aggressive program to 
help client companies with claims management and claims closure.  In the 
fourth quarter of 1993, we recognized that despite our efforts, our 
experience was not improving.  This led to further strengthening reserves to 
recognize expected future losses.  The adequacy of disability income reserves
is dependent on future morbidity experience and other factors which are
subject to substantial variability.  Accordingly, we cannot be assured future
losses will not emerge.

Individual Life
One of the primary reasons for LNRC's strong earnings of the last two years 
was favorable mortality on Individual Life reinsurance.  Individual life 
sales increased 24% in 1993.

Group Markets
Group Reinsurance has experienced favorable morbidity in the last two years,
contributing to the strong earnings reported.  Competition has intensified in
the HMO market, one of LNRC's primary group market customers.  As HMO's move
to a broader spectrum of products, LNRC is prepared to provide market
knowledge and ancillary products such as short-term disability, accidental
death and dismemberment, and group life.  

There are still many uncertainties surrounding national health care reform.  
Whatever the outcome, LNRC is well positioned to follow the risk to design and
provide products and services to meet risk management needs.  

Life Underwriting System
The essence of the partnership and integration between an insurer and 
reinsurer is moving to new, more sophisticated levels.  Today, strategic 
relationships are developed around the flow of information.  Companies are  
migrating to electronic commerce where billing, underwriting and other risk 
management functions are increasingly shared with their reinsurer in a direct
electronic interface.  LNRC's Life Underwriting System (LUS), a patented
state-of-the-art risk management tool, provides decision support to the
underwriter, improving service and reducing insurers' expenses. In addition to
the LUS, a new risk management product, Datalliance, has been  delivered to
the marketplace. Both products were developed by LNRC.  Datalliance provides
an electronic interchange of information between parties sharing in the risk
management process.  These products provide the foundation for insurance
companies to re-engineer their internal processes and interactions with their
risk management partners. 

Outlook
LNRC will continue to closely monitor the disability income situation and, as
always, take necessary actions to protect the fundamental earnings strength in
our other reinsurance operations.  The company expects 1994 reinsurance
earnings to recover and believes over the long-term LNRC will continue to
contribute a steady and significant stream of earnings to LNC. 

LNRC's ongoing strategy will be to make the best use of its unique 
competencies to design customer focused, custom-made, total risk management 
solutions for its clients.  LNRC will expand the range of products and 
services offered to maintain its position as the premier life-health 
reinsurer in the United States. 


                                          -17-



Employers Health Insurance Company produced record income from operations of 
$54.3 million in 1993 versus $40.8 million in 1992.  A reduction in medical 
cost trends contributed to this earnings improvement. 

For the year, the company's health insurance premium reached $1.2 billion.  
Employers Health is ranked as the 12th largest U.S. group health insurer 
based on 1992 annual statutory premiums (The National Underwriter, June 
1993).  In 1993, in-force members grew by 11% over the previous year, 
bringing total members to more than 1 million.

Employers Health is a single source provider of a broad line of managed care 
products and employee benefit products for small businesses.  The company has
focused primarily on employer groups of 2 to 150 lives and also offers 
administrative services for larger groups in selected markets.  

Employers Health distributes managed care medical insurance products, as well
as non-medical specialty products and administrative services through more
than 40,000 independent agents.  While it writes business in 40 states, the
company has managed care geographic concentration, with more than 75% of its
medical membership concentrated in 10 states.  Employers Health offers 
Preferred Provider Organizations (PPOs) and Health Maintenance Organizations 
(HMOs) services through wholly or partially owned plans and through alliances
and contractual relationships with other managed care organizations.  

In July 1993, Employers Health began providing all of the marketing and 
administrative services for the Health Insurance Plan of California, the 
nation's first state sponsored purchasing pool.  A purchasing pool enables 
employers to group together for combined purchasing power and administrative 
efficiencies.  

Outlook
In December 1993, LNC, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Lincoln National 
Life Insurance Company, announced it would sell, through a public offering, 
approximately 60% or 10.5 million shares of EMPHESYS Financial Group, Inc.  
EMPHESYS is a holding company created by Lincoln Life which owns the stock of
Employers Health.  Depending on market demand, Lincoln Life may sell more 
than 60% of the company.  

LNC has decided to divest a majority interest of Employers Health in order to
devote more of its resources to its primary businesses and further reduce its
investment in the group health business. LNC intends to use the proceeds from
the sale for further growth.  At the time of this writing, LNC anticipates the
sale will close in March 1994. 


                                          -18-







Net realized gain (loss) on investments in 1993 and 1992 was $268.4 million
($170.3 million after taxes) and $176.9 million ($118.6 million after taxes),
respectively.  These gains were the result of the sale of investments, less
write-downs and allowances for losses.  The write-downs of fixed maturity and
equity securities were recorded when the securities were deemed to have
declines in market value that were other than temporary.  With the exception
of interest only mortgage-backed securities, the fixed maturity securities to
which these write-downs apply were generally of investment grade quality at
the time of purchase, but were classified as "below investment grade" at the
time of the write-downs.  Provision for losses were established for mortgage
loans on real estate and real estate where the underlying value of the
property was deemed to be less than the carrying value.  The provision for
losses in 1993 includes $64.1 million for the adoption of FAS 114 (see note 2
to the consolidated financial statements on page 38).  The amount of these
write-downs and provisions for losses is disclosed within the notes to the
accompanying financial statements (see note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 40).

Net investment income increased 8% in 1993 as the result of a 12% increase in
mean invested assets (cost basis) being partially offset by a decrease in the
yield on investments from 8.24% to 7.93%.  Lower net investment income for
1993 in the Property-Casualty segment, due to lower volumes of business, were
more than offset by increases in the other business segments.  Net investment
income increased 10% in 1992 as the result of a 13% increase in invested
assets being partially offset by a decrease in the yield from 8.38% to 8.24%.

The investment portfolio, excluding cash and invested cash, is comprised of 
fixed maturity securities; equities; mortgage loans on real estate; real
estate, either wholly owned or joint ventures; and other long-term
investments.  LNC purchases investments which have yield, duration and other
characteristics which take into account the liabilities of the products being
supported.  The dominant investment held is fixed maturity securities which
represents 81% of the investment portfolio.  A $3.6 billion increase in the
fixed maturity portfolio, including increases related to the adoption of FAS
115, accounted for most of the $4.2 billion increase in the investment
portfolio in 1993.

Fixed Maturity Securities
In 1993, LNC's fixed maturity portfolio produced a return of 12.7% compared to
an industry recognized index (Lehman Brothers, Government/Corporate Bond
Index) which produced 11.0% 

LNC maintains a high-quality fixed maturity securities portfolio.  As of 
December 31, 1993, $11.8 billion or 53% of the securities in the portfolio 
were rated AA or better and $956.9 million or 4.3% of the portfolio was  

                                         -19-

invested in below investment grade (BB or less) securities (see note 3 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 41).  The below investment grade
securities represent 3.2% of the total investment portfolio.  The interest
rates available on these below investment grade securities are significantly
higher than are available on other corporate debt securities.  Also, the risk
of loss due to default by the borrower is significantly greater with respect
to such below investment grade securities because these securities are
generally unsecured, often subordinated to other creditors of the issuer and
issued by companies that usually have high levels of indebtedness.  LNC
attempts to minimize the risks associated with these below investment grade
securities by limiting the exposure to any one issuer and by closely
monitoring the credit worthiness of such issuers.  For the year ended December
31, 1993, the aggregate cost of such investments purchased was $391.4 million. 
Aggregate proceeds from such investments sold were $283.2 million, resulting
in a realized pre-tax gain at the time of sale of $17.4 million.

As of December 31, 1993, LNC adopted FAS 115 and reclassified its entire fixed
maturity securities portfolio as "available-for-sale."  With such
reclassification, the fixed maturity securities are carried at current fair
value and changes in fair values, net of related deferred acquisition costs,
amounts required to satisfy policyholder commitments and taxes, are charged or
credited directly to shareholders' equity (see note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 39).  As of December 31, 1993, LNC's fixed
maturity securities were comprised of securities with gross unrealized gains
of $1,925.0 million and gross unrealized losses of $179.9 million.  

LNC's fixed maturity securities available-for-sale includes mortgage-backed
bonds.  The mortgage-backed bonds are subject to risks associated with
variable prepayments.  This may result in these securities having a different
actual maturity than planned at the time of purchase.  Securities that have an
amortized cost greater than par which are backed by mortgages that prepay
faster than expected will incur a reduction in yield or a loss.  Those
securities that have an amortized cost lower than par that prepay faster than
expected will generate an increase in yield or a gain.  The degree to which a
security is susceptible to either gains or losses is influenced by the
difference between its amortized cost and par, the relative sensitivity of the
underlying mortgages backing the assets to prepayment in a changing interest
rate environment and the repayment priority of the securities in the overall
securitization structure.

LNC limits the extent of these risks by generally avoiding securities whose
cost significantly exceeds par, by purchasing securities which are backed by
stable collateral, and by concentrating on securities with enhanced priority
in their trust structure.  Such securities with reduced risk typically have a
lower yield (but higher liquidity) than higher-risk mortgage-backed bonds.  At
selected times, higher-risk securities may be purchased if they do not
compromise the safety of the general portfolio.  At December 31, 1993, LNC did
not have a significant amount of higher-risk mortgage-backed bonds.  There are
negligible default risks in the mortgage-backed bond portfolio as a whole as
the vast majority of the assets are either guaranteed by U.S. government-
sponsored entities or are supported in the securitization structure by junior
securities enabling the assets to achieve high investment grade status.



                                         -20-

Equities
The equity securities portion of the investment portfolio produced a realized
pre-tax gain of $156.7 million in 1993 as compared with $83.5 million in 1992. 
This continued strong performance reflects the success of LNC's two affiliates
(Lynch & Mayer and Vantage Global Advisors, Inc).  These advisors manage
equity funds for Lincoln National.  While the stock market, as measured by the
S&P 500, had an investment return of 10.1% for the year, the combined return
on assets managed by Lynch & Mayer and Vantage Global Advisors, Inc. was
14.6%.

Total Return
While many insurance companies invest to maximize current income, we follow a
total return strategy that focuses the change in market value of our assets in
addition to current income.  This approach permits us to be more effective in
our asset liability management efforts, since decisions can be made based upon
the true economic value of assets and true economic costs of liabilities. 
Total return requires that we evaluate the risk and expected return of each
asset.

Mortgage Loans and Real Estate
Mortgage loans on real estate represented 11.1% of the total investment 
portfolio as of December 31, 1993, while real estate owned represented 2.1%. 
In January 1994, LNC announced its intention to sell approximately $300
million in performing and non-performing mortgage loans and real estate
holdings through a sealed bid process.  If the transaction is consummated, the
selling price is expected to approximate the carrying value.  As of December
31, 1993, the underlying properties supporting the mortgage loans on real
estate consisted of 29% in commercial office buildings, 27% in retail stores,
19% in apartments, 12% in industrial buildings, 3% in hotels/motels and 10% in
other.  In addition to the dispersion by type of property, the mortgage loan
portfolio is distributed regionally throughout the United States. 

Mortgage loans on real estate are actively monitored to identify problem
loans.  LNC classifies mortgage loans as problem loans if they are non-accrual
loans (i.e., principal and interest are 60 days past due), restructured loans
(i.e., the terms of the original loan have been modified) or all other loans
not in the first two categories that are considered impaired.  LNC considers a
mortgage loan impaired when, based on current information and events, it is
probable that LNC will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the
contractual terms of the loan agreement.  In addition, LNC also classifies
loans as potential problem loans when available information causes management
to be concerned about the borrowers' ability to comply with the present loan
terms, including the repayment of outstanding interest and principal.

When LNC determines that a loan is impaired as defined above, a provision for
loss is established for the difference between the carrying value of the
mortgage loan and the estimated value.  Estimated value is based on either the
present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective
interest rate, the loan's observable market price or the fair value of the
collateral.  Additional amounts were added to the mortgage loan provision for
losses during 1993 due to the adoption of FAS 114 (see note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 38).  When a mortgage loan becomes
60 days past due, all existing accruals for interest due are reversed and
interest is recorded on a cash basis until the mortgage loan is brought
current.

The commercial mortgage loan market deteriorated throughout the nation in 1992
and 1993.  Lincoln National, like many other insurers, did not escape an
increase in impaired loans.  We continued to strengthen our provision for
losses throughout 1992 and 1993, increasing the reserve level and the ratio of
reserves to impaired mortgages.  Net impaired loans as of December 31, 1993,
totaled $554.7 million, as compared with $421.7 million as of December 31,
1992.  Net impaired loans were only 1.9% of total investments at December 31,
1993.

                                         -21-



LNC has a commitment to lend $132,000 on a restructured loan.  No other future
commitments have been made on non-accrual or restructured loans.  

Outlook
Entering 1994, the market consensus was for slightly higher inflation than 
last year and moderate improvement in the economy.    

The current consensus view and market focus are on much stronger economic 
growth and increasing inflationary pressures.  Much of this focus could be 
attributed to the unusually high fourth quarter Gross Domestic Product report
and potential inflationary findings in the Purchasing Manager's Report.  This
has resulted in further declines in bond and stock prices.

We are not as concerned with inflation versus the market at this time.  While
interest rates may be expected to continue to rise in the short term, we
believe they are likely to fall in the second half of this year.

We made a strong commitment to the international equity market last year and 
continue to pursue this strategy.  The returns for both domestic fixed-income
and equity instruments will not approach that of the decade of the 1980's but
should result in real returns closer to historical averages.   

                                        -22-



 
The income (loss) from operations shown above for "Other Operations"
represents unallocated revenues and expenses including LNC's investment
management companies, corporate investment income, interest expense on short-
term and long-term borrowings, corporate overhead expenses and certain other
operations that are not directly related to the four business segments.

The Investment Management operations reported above include Lincoln National
Investment Management Company, Lynch & Mayer and Vantage Global Advisors, Inc. 
These investment advisors provide investment advisory services and asset
management services to LNC's annuity, pension and insurance customers as well
as for LNC's corporate portfolios.  In addition to managing these accounts,
their services are provided to outside, institutional clients and high net
worth individuals.

Corporate interest expense included within the LNC financing line above was
less for 1993 than 1992 due to the use of proceeds from a Common Stock
offering (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page 52) to
pay down corporate debt.

Net income shown above for "Other Operations" includes the items described
above under income from operations plus the cumulative effect of the
accounting change for the consolidated group of companies related to
postretirement benefits, the gain (loss) on sale of subsidiaries (see note 10
to the consolidated financial statements on page 53) and certain realized gain
(loss) on sale of investments.


                                         -23-



REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS

Consolidated operations are reviewed below except for Net Investment Income 
and Realized Gain on Investments which are reviewed in the preceding 
Discussion and Analysis of Investments section.  Revenue and expenses 
associated with the portion of the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment 
which was sold have been excluded from the 1993 and 1992 operating results as
the estimated cost of the run-off of such operations was included in the loss
on sale of subsidiaries recorded in the fourth quarter of 1991.

Insurance Premiums
Property-casualty premiums decreased 12% in 1993 and 7% in 1992.  The decrease
in 1993 and 1992 is primarily the result of implementing a more stringent
underwriting policy to improve loss experience.  The volume of premium that
this segment will produce in 1994 is dependent upon whether the pricing within
the property-casualty insurance market place allows price increases that are
necessary to maintain and improve profitability.
  
Health premiums increased $69.3 million or 4% in 1993 as the result of
increased volumes of business and rate increases implemented over the past
year.  Health premiums decreased $1.2 billion in 1992.  Excluding the 1991
impact of the portion of the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment which was
sold in 1992, health premiums decreased $22.2 million or 1%.  This decrease
was due to premium rate increases on business retained being more than offset
by lower volumes of business.  The premium rate increases and the lower volume
resulted from holding healthcare trend factors at a high level for new and
renewal business quotes.  If LNC consummates the sale of its primary direct
writer of health coverages (see note 10 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 53) health premiums will be approximately 50% lower in
1994. 

                                        -24-

Life and annuity premiums increased 17% in 1993.  This increase resulted from
increases in the volume of transactions by the Life Insurance and Annuities
and Life-Health Reinsurance segments.  Life and annuity premiums decreased 2%
in 1992.  Excluding the 1991 impact of the portion of the Employee Life-Health
Benefits segment which was sold in 1992, life and annuity premiums increased
4% primarily as the result of an increase in the volume of transactions in the
Life-Health Reinsurance segment.  Barring the passage of unfavorable tax
legislation that would eliminate the tax-advantages for some of LNC's life and
annuity products, LNC expects life and annuity premium growth in 1994 similar
to the growth for 1993.  

Insurance Fees
Insurance fees from universal life and other interest-sensitive life insurance
contracts increased 15% in 1993 and 1992.  The growth in fees from this
business is expected to continue in 1994.

Loss on Sale of Subsidiaries
In December 1993, LNC recorded a provision for loss on the sale of its
Security-Connecticut subsidiary (see note 10 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 56).  In December 1991, LNC recorded a loss on the
anticipated sale of a portion of the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment
(see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements on page 53).  

Other Revenue
Other revenue decreased 10% in 1993 as a result of a decrease in the Property-
Casualty segment due to the sale of an agency company that specialized in the
sports and entertainment market.  Excluding the 1991 impact of a portion of
the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment which was sold in 1992, other
revenue increased 20% in 1992.  This increase is the result of increased
revenues from fees in the Life Insurance and Annuities segment.  

Insurance Benefits and Expenses
Property-casualty benefits decreased by 18% compared with 1992.  This decrease 
was the result of reduced volumes of insurance as indicated by the reduction
in insurance premiums and a decrease in weather-related claims.  Property- 
casualty benefits decreased by 7% as compared with 1991.  This decrease was
the net result of reduced volumes of insurance in-force and an increase in
weather-related claims.  The 1991-1993 period had above average catastrophe
and storm losses.  Assuming an average catastrophe and storm loss year in
1994, the property-casualty benefits will likely parallel the change in
property-casualty premiums.

Health benefits increased 4% in 1993 compared to 1992.  This increase was the
result of higher volumes of business and the impact of a change in estimate of
the reserve level needed for the Life-Health Reinsurance segments disability
income business (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page
42) being partially offset by moderating claims in the Employee Life-Health
Benefits segment.  Health benefits, excluding the 1991 impact of the portion
of the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment which was sold in 1992, were
$12.6 million or 7% more in 1992 than in 1991.  This is the net result of
lower volumes of business and inflation in the cost of providing health care
in the Life-Health Reinsurance and Employee Life-Health Benefits segments.  As
noted within the insurance premium section, if LNC consummates the partial
sale of its primary direct writer of health coverages (see note 10 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 53) the volume of health business
will decrease by about 50% in 1994.  Health benefits are also expected to
decrease by approximately 50%.

                                       -25-

Life and annuity benefits and settlement expenses increased 7% in 1993 
compared to 1992.  This increase was the result of increased volumes of
business in the Life Insurance and Annuities and Life-Health Reinsurance
segments.  Life and Annuity benefits and settlement expenses, excluding the
1991 impact of the portion of the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment which
was sold in 1992, increased by 9%, primarily as a result of increased business
in 1992 in the Life-Health Reinsurance segment and more favorable mortality
than in 1991.  The increase in life and annuity benefits expense in 1994 is
expected to parallel the growth in life and annuity premiums.

Expenses
Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other expenses increased 9% in 1993 
compared to 1992.  This increase was the result of inflation, higher volumes 
of insurance and higher costs for postretirement benefits.  Excluding the 1991
impact of the portion of the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment which was
sold in 1992, underwriting, acquisition, insurance and other expenses
increased $232.9 million or 14% in 1992.  This increase was the result of
inflation and an increase in the volume of insurance except in the
Property-Casualty segment.  In 1994, LNC's segments will continue to adjust
staff levels as appropriate to match business volumes.  

Interest expense decreased $9.5 million or 18% in 1993 compared to 1992 as a
result of decreases in the average debt outstanding.  The average debt was
lower due to the use of the proceeds of the February 1993 Common Stock
offering to pay down debt (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements
on page 52).  Interest expense decreased $17.4 million in 1992 as the result
of decreases in the average debt outstanding, decreases in short-term interest
rates and changes in the composition of debt outstanding.  The average debt
level for 1994 is expected to be lower than 1993 due to cash available at the
holding company from subsidiary dividends being used to reduce debt
outstanding.  In addition, the 8% notes due in 1997 were called in March 1994.

Federal Income Taxes (Credits)
Federal income taxes increased $107.0 million in 1993 compared to 1992.  This
increase is primarily the result of increased pre-tax earnings and the lack of
any tax benefit on the loss on sale of subsidiary (due to federal income tax
regulations) being partially offset by an increase in tax-exempt investment
income.  The increase in the prevailing Corporate federal income tax rate from
34% to 35% during 1993 increased 1993 current taxes by approximately $5
million.   However, this increase was offset by a one-time increase to LNC's
deferred tax recoverable (see note 4 to the consolidated financial statements
on page 42).  As restated for the effect of FAS 109 (see note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 38), federal income taxes increased
from the tax credit of $3.1 million in 1991 to a tax charge of $65.5 million
in 1992.  This increase resulted primarily from an increase in pre-tax
earnings.

Summary
Net income for 1993 was $318.9 million compared with $359.2 million in 1992.  
The 1992 amount has been restated for the effect of FAS 109 (see note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 38).  Excluding realized gain on
investments, loss on sale of subsidiary and the cumulative effect of
implementing FAS 106, all net of tax, LNC earned $343.5 million for 1993
compared to $240.6 million in 1992.  All the business segments except for
Life-Health Reinsurance contributed to this increase.  Net income for 1993
includes two changes in estimates which essentially offset each other (see
note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 39).  As restated,
net income for 1992 was $359.2 million compared with $201.9 million in 1991. 
Excluding net realized gains on investments net of taxes and the 1991 impact
of the $89.1 million after-tax ($135.0 million pre-tax) loss on sale of
subsidiaries, LNC earned $240.6 million in 1992 compared to $177.7 million in
1991.  All the business segments contributed to this increase.  

                                        -26-

REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL CONDITION

Consolidated financial condition is reviewed below except for Investments 
which are reviewed in the preceding Discussion and Analysis of Investments 
section.

Cash and Invested Cash
Cash and invested cash decreased by $306.2 million in 1993 as the result of 
moving invested cash to longer term investments.  

Variable Life and Annuity and Segregated Pension Funds 
This asset account as well as the corresponding liability account increased 
by $4.1 billion, reflecting a continued increase in funds under management.

Federal Income Taxes 
Federal Income Taxes increased $261.3 million in 1993 and on a restated basis
(see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 38) increased
$149.3 million in 1992.  These increases resulted from the net effect of
increases in discounting of insurance reserves, deferred acquisition costs and
investment reserve additions; and in 1993 due to the effect of implementing
FAS 115 (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 39). 

Amount Recoverable from Reinsurers
This balance sheet account was added in 1993 as the result of the adoption of
FAS 113 (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 38). 
These amounts were previously netted against policy liabilities and accruals.

Other Assets
The decrease in other assets relates to a decrease in expected proceeds from
sales of security investments in the last few days of 1993 versus a higher
volume of such transactions late in 1992.

Total Liabilities
Total liabilities increased by $7.6 billion in 1993.  This increase reflects 
1)an increase in business activity as evidenced by an increase of $2.1 
billion in contractholder funds, an increase of $4.1 billion in the liability
for variable life and annuity and segregated pension funds and an increase in
the policy liabilities and accruals of $1.4 billion; 2)a decrease in debt of
$169.9 million; and 3)an increase in all other liabilities of $.2 million. 
The increase in the policy liabilities and accruals includes $900 million
related to the adoption of FAS 113 (see note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 38).  Policy liabilities for both December 31, 1993 and
December 31, 1992 included a liability for environmental losses of
approximately $204.0 million.  The increase in other liabilities relates to an
increase in the expected payouts for security investments purchased in the
last few days of 1993 versus a lower volume of such transactions late in 
1992.

Shareholders' Equity
The increase in Shareholders' Equity of $1.2 billion compared to the restated
December 31, 1992 balance (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements
on page 38), was the result of increases of $316.1 million from the public
stock offering (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page
52), $318.9 million of net income, $26.2 million from the issuance of Common
Stock related to benefit plans and $768.4 million related to the cumulative
effect of accounting change for debt and equity securities (see note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 39) being partially offset by $162.8
million in dividends to stockholders, $16.5 million related to the change in
net unrealized gain (loss) on trading and equity securities and a $4.8 million
reduction in the accumulated foreign exchange gain.

                                        -27-

Capital adequacy is a primary measurement used by insurance regulators to
determine the financial stability of an insurance company.  New risk-based
capital guidelines developed by the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners became effective in 1993 for life insurance companies.  The 
risk-based capital formula is designed to analytically determine,based on the
level of insurance and investment risks of individual companies,the amount of 
capital that represents minimum acceptable operating amounts related to these 
risks.  Regulatory action is triggered when an insurer's statutory-basis 
capital falls below the formula-produced capital level.  Similar guidelines 
for property-casualty insurance companies were adopted for 1994.  At December 
31, 1993, statutory-basis capital for each of LNC's life and property casualty 
insurance subsidiaries was substantially in excess of regulatory action levels 
of risk-based capital (using the 1994 formula for property-casualty).

LIQUIDITY AND CASH FLOW

In the insurance industry, liquidity generally refers to the ability of an 
enterprise to generate adequate amounts of cash from its normal operations, 
including activities in its investment portfolio, to meet its financial 
commitments.  LNC manages its operations, including prudent investment 
portfolio structuring, to provide for appropriate liquidity levels.  The 
portfolio structuring involves segregating LNC's investments by segment, 
sub-segment or type of product.  The investments selected for each segregated
portfolio are based on LNC's desire to match the characteristics (e.g.
duration and yield) of the underlying liabilities.

The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows on page 38 indicate that operating 
activities provided cash of $1.0 billion, $870 million and $1.3 billion in
1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  This statement also classifies the other
sources and uses of cash by investing activities and financing activities and
discloses the amount of cash available at the end of the year to meet LNC's
obligations.

Although LNC generates adequate cash flow to meet the needs of its normal 
operations, periodically LNC may issue debt or equity securities to fund 
internal expansion, acquisitions, investment opportunities and the retirement
of LNC's debt and equity.  Additional cash funds are available from LNC's
revolving credit agreements which provides for borrowing up to $550 million
(see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements on page 45).

Transactions such as those described in the preceding paragraph that occurred
during 1993 included a public stock offering which netted $316.1 million after
expenses (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page 52). 
The proceeds from this offering were used to paydown short-term debt pending
application for general corporate purposes, which may include further
investment in existing insurance businesses or to finance acquisitions.  In
March 1994, LNC redeemed its $100 million of 8% notes payable due in 1997. 
The redemption was funded with additional short-term debt.  

In order to maximize the use of available cash, the holding company (Lincoln 
National Corporation) maintains a facility where subsidiaries can borrow from
the holding company to meet their short-term needs and can invest their 
short-term funds with the holding company.  Depending on the overall cash 
availability or need, the holding company invests excess cash in short-term 
investments or borrows funds in the external financial markets.  In addition 
to facilitating the management of cash, the holding company receives dividends
from its subsidiaries, invests in operating companies, maintains an investment
portfolio and pays shareholder dividends and certain corporate expenses.

                                         -28-


The table above shows the cash flow activity for the holding company from 
1991 through 1993.  The line, "net tax receipts from subsidiaries", recognizes
that the holding company receives tax payments from subsidiaries, pays the
consolidated tax liability and reimburses subsidiaries for the tax effect of
any taxable operating or capital loss.

LNC's insurance subsidiaries are subject to assessments by state guaranty 
funds to cover losses to policyholders of insolvent or rehabilitated companies
(see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on page 51).  LNC
believes that it is unlikely that any such payments required to be made in
1994 could have a material negative effect on LNC's liquidity and cash flows.

As of December 31, 1993, $2.3 billion of consolidated shareholders' equity 
represents net assets of the consolidated insurance subsidiaries that is 
limited as to transfer in the form of dividends, loans or advances to the 
holding company (see note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on page
48).  However, this restriction poses no short-term liquidity concerns for the
holding company.  The financial strength and stability of the subsidiaries
permit ready access to short-term or long-term credit sources for the holding
company.

Effect of Inflation
As indicated earlier in this review of consolidated operations, inflation 
affects LNC's revenues and expenses.  LNC's insurance affiliates, as well as 
other companies in the insurance industry, attempt to minimize the effect of 
inflation by anticipating inflationary trends in the pricing of their 
products.  Inflation does not have a significant effect on LNC's balance 
sheet due to the minimal amount of dollars invested in property, plant and 
equipment and the absence of inventories.

                                         -29-



Applicable 1992 data has been restated for the adoption of FAS 109 (see note 2
to the consolidated financial statements on page 38) and the 1993 two-for-one
split of LNC's Common Stock (see note 9 to the consolidated financial
statements on page 52).  Operating results in the first quarter of 1993 were
affected by the adoption of FAS 106 and FAS 114 (see note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 38) and in the fourth quarter of
1993 by a provision for the loss on sale of Security-Connecticut Corporation
which was completed in February 1994 (see note 10 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 53).  Income before cumulative effect of
accounting change and net income for the fourth quarter of 1993 include two
changes in estimate which essentially offset each other (see note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements on page 39).  Per share amounts were
affected by the February 1993 issuance of 9,200,000 shares of Common Stock
(see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on page 52).


Consolidated Financial Statements


The consolidated financial statements of Lincoln National Corporation and 
Subsidiaries follow on pages 30 through 54.

                                        -30-


                                         -31-





                                         -32-



                                         -33-





                                         -34-



                                         -35-


                                           -36- 

LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation.  The accompanying consolidated financial statements of
Lincoln National Corporation ("LNC") and its majority owned subsidiaries have
been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

Investments.  As of December 31, 1993, fixed maturity securities are
classified based on management's current intent as available-for-sale and,
accordingly, are carried at fair value (see note 2 on page 42).  The cost of
fixed maturity securities are adjusted for amortization of premiums and
discounts.  Equity securities (common and non-redeemable preferred stocks) are
carried at fair value.  Securities designated as fixed maturity-trading
account and equity as of December 31, 1992, have been reclassified for the
1993 balance sheet as securities available-for-sale since their accounting
treatment is the same as the securities designated as such as of December 31,
1993.  Prior to December 31, 1993, LNC classified fixed maturity securities in
accordance with existing accounting standards and, accordingly, selected those
fixed maturity securities that were not intended to be held to maturity and
designated them as a trading account.  These securities were carried at fair
value.  Other fixed maturity securities were carried at cost, adjusted for
amortization of premium or discount, since LNC had both the ability and intent
to hold such securities until maturity.

For the mortgage-backed bond portion of the fixed maturity securities
portfolio, LNC recognizes income using a constant effective yield based on
anticipated prepayments and the estimated economic life of the securities. 
When actual prepayments differ significantly from anticipated prepayments, the
effective yield is recalculated to reflect actual payments to date and
anticipated future payments.  The net investment in the securities is adjusted
to the amount that would have existed had the new effective yield been applied
since the acquisition of the securities.  This adjustment is reflected in net
investment income.

Mortgage loans on real estate are carried at the outstanding principal
balances less unaccrued discounts.  Investment real estate and property and
equipment owned for company use are carried at cost less allowances for
depreciation.  Policy loans are carried at the aggregate unpaid balances.  All
such investments are carried net of reserves for declines in value that are
other than temporary.  The change in these reserves is reported as realized
gain (loss) on investments.

Cash and invested cash are carried at cost and include all highly liquid debt
instruments purchased with a maturity of three months or less and carrying
value approximates fair value.

Realized gain (loss) on investments are recognized in net income, net of
related amortization of deferred acquisition costs, using the specific
identification method.  Changes in the fair values of securities carried at
fair value are reflected directly in shareholders' equity after deductions for
related adjustments for deferred acquisition costs and amounts required to
satisfy policyholder commitments that would have been recorded if these
securities would have sold at their fair value and after deferred tax effects.

Premiums and Fees.   Property-casualty and group health gross premiums are 
prorated over the contract term of the policies.  Revenue for universal life 
and other interest-sensitive life insurance policies consist of policy charges 
for the cost of insurance, policy initiation and administration, and surrender 
charges that have been assessed.  Traditional individual life-health and 
annuity premiums are recognized as revenue over the premium-paying period of 
the policies.

                                        -37-

Deferred Acquisition Costs.  Commissions and other costs of acquiring
property-casualty insurance, group health insurance, universal life and other
interest-sensitive life insurance, and traditional life insurance and
annuities, which vary with and are primarily related to the production of new
business, have been deferred.  Deferred acquisition costs for property-
casualty policies are amortized over the contract term of the policies;
property-casualty acquisition costs that are not recoverable from future
premiums and related investment income are expensed.  Acquisition costs for
universal life and other interest-sensitive life insurance policies are being
amortized over the lives of the policies in relation to the incidence of
estimated gross profits from surrender charges and investment, mortality, and
expense margins, and actual realized gain (loss) on investments.  The
traditional life-health and annuity acquisition costs are being amortized over
the premium-paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent
with those used in computing policy reserves.

Expenses.  Expenses for universal life and other interest-sensitive life 
insurance policies include interest credited to policy account balances and 
benefit claims incurred during the period in excess of policy account
balances.  Interest crediting rates for these products during 1991 through
1993 ranged from 6.25% to 9.10%.  

Intangible Assets.  The present value of acquired insurance in-force, which is 
classified with other assets on the balance sheet, is amortized over the 
premium recognition period of the policies acquired.  The costs of acquired 
subsidiaries in excess of the fair value of net assets (goodwill) are
amortized using the straight-line method over a 20 to 40 year period.

Policy Liabilities and Accruals.  The liability for unpaid property-casualty 
claims is based on estimates of payments to be made for individual claims
reported and unreported losses, reduced by estimated recoveries from salvage
and subrogation.  These estimates are continually reviewed and, as experience
develops and new information becomes known, the liability is adjusted as
necessary; such adjustments are included in current operations.  The
liabilities for future policy benefits and expenses for universal life and
other interest-sensitive life insurance policies consist of policy account
balances that accrue to the benefit of the policyholders, excluding surrender
charges.  The liabilities for future policy benefits and expenses for
traditional life-health policies and annuities are computed using a net level
premium method and assumptions for investment yields, mortality, morbidity,
and withdrawals based principally on company experience projected at the time
of policy issue, with provision for possible adverse deviations.  Interest
assumptions range from a 2.25% level to a 14.5% level graded to 5.7% after 30
years depending on time of policy issue.

Depreciation.  Provisions for depreciation of investment real estate and 
property and equipment owned for company use are computed principally on the 
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

Postretirement Medical and Life Insurance Benefits.  Effective January 1,
1993, LNC changed its method of accounting for its postretirement medical and
life insurance benefits to the full accrual method (see note 2 on page 38). 
Prior to January 1, 1993, LNC accounted for such benefits on a pay-as-you-go
method.

Foreign Exchange.  LNC's foreign subsidiaries' balance sheet accounts and 
income statement items are translated at the current exchange and average 
exchange rates for the year, respectively.  Resulting translation adjustments 
are reported as a component of shareholders' equity.  Other translation 
adjustments for foreign currency transactions that affect cash flows are 
reported in earnings.


                                         -38-

2.  Changes in Accounting Principles and Changes in Estimates

Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions.  Effective January 1, 1993, LNC
changed its method of accounting for postretirement medical and life insurance
benefits for its eligible employees and agents from a pay-as-you-go method to
a full accrual method in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards
Board statement entitled "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions" ("FAS 106").  This full accrual method recognizes the
estimated obligation for retired employees and agents and active employees and
agents that are expected to retire in the future.  The effect of the change
for 1993 was to increase net periodic postretirement benefit cost by
$9,200,000 and decrease income before cumulative effect of accounting change
by $6,000,000 ($.06 per share).  The implementation of FAS 106 resulted in a
one-time charge to first quarter 1993 net income of $96,400,000 ($146,100,000
pre-tax) or $.94 per share for the cumulative effect of the accounting change. 
Prior year data has not been restated for the accounting change.  See note 6
on page 47 for further postretirement benefits other than pensions
disclosures.

Accounting for Income Taxes.  Effective January 1, 1993, LNC changed its
method of accounting for income taxes in accordance with the Financial
Accounting Standards Board statement entitled "Accounting for Income Taxes"
("FAS 109").  Under FAS 109, the liability method is used in accounting for
income taxes.  Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of
assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws. 
Prior to the adoption of FAS 109, income tax expense was determined using the
deferred method.  Deferred tax expense was based on items of income and
expense that were reported in different years in the financial statements and
tax returns and were measured at the tax rate in effect in the year the
differences originated.

The implementation of FAS 109 resulted in the restatement of the 1992 and 1991 
financial statements.  Net income for the years ended December 31, 1992 and
1991 decreased by $3,700,000 ($.04 per share) and $6,500,000 ($.07 per share),
respectively.  The cumulative effect of adopting FAS 109 as of December 31,
1990, decreased 1991's beginning earned surplus by $114,200,000.  See note 4
on page 45 for further income tax disclosures.

Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration 
Contracts.  Effective January 1, 1993, LNC adopted the Financial Accounting
Standards Board statement entitled "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance
of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts" ("FAS 113").  Under FAS 113,
all assets and liabilities related to reinsurance ceded contracts are reported
on a gross basis rather than the previous practice of reporting such assets
and liabilities net of reinsurance.  The effect of adopting FAS 113 was to
increase both assets and liabilities by $900,000,000.  All amounts recoverable
from reinsurers are now classified separately on the balance sheet.  As
permitted under the new rules, the prior year's balance sheet has not been
restated to the gross basis.

Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan.  Financial Accounting
Standards Board statement entitled "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of
a Loan" ("FAS 114") issued in May 1993, was adopted by LNC during the second
quarter of 1993.  LNC adopted this statement with an effective date of January
1, 1993 by restating its first quarter 1993 financial statements.  FAS 114
requires that an impaired mortgage loan's fair value be measured based either
on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's
effective interest rate, at the loan's observable market price or the fair
value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.  If the fair
value of the mortgage loan as described above is less than the recorded
investment in the loan, the difference is recorded in the mortgage loan
allowance for losses account.  The change in the mortgage loan allowance for
losses account is reported with realized gain (loss) on investments.  The
adoption of FAS 114 resulted in additions to the mortgage loan allowance for
losses account and reduced first quarter 1993 income before cumulative effect
of accounting change and net income by $42,300,000 or $.41 per share
($64,100,000 pre-tax).  See note 3 on page 41 for further mortgage loan
disclosures.  Most of the effect of this change in accounting was within the
Life Insurance and Annuities segment.

                                         -39-

Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.  Financial
Accounting Standards Board statement entitled "Accounting for Certain Invest-
ments in Debt and Equity Securities" ("FAS 115") issued in May 1993, was
adopted by LNC as of December 31, 1993.  In accordance with the new rules, the
prior year financial statements have not been restated to reflect the change
in accounting principle.  Under FAS 115, securities can be classified as
available-for-sale, trading or held-to-maturity according to the holders
intent.  LNC classified its entire fixed maturity securities portfolio as
"available-for-sale."  Securities classified as available-for-sale are carried
at fair value and unrealized gains and losses on such securities are carried
as a separate component of shareholders' equity.  The ending balance of
shareholders' equity was increased by $768,400,000 (net of $384,600,000 of
related adjustments to deferred acquisition costs, $62,900,000 of policyholder
commitments and $412,400,000 in deferred income taxes, all of which would have 
been recognized if those securities would have been sold at their fair value,
net of amounts applicable to Security-Connecticut Corporation) to reflect the
net unrealized gain on fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-
sale previously carried at amortized cost.  Prior to the adoption of FAS 115,
LNC carried a portion of its fixed maturity securities at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses carried as a separate component of stockholders'
equity.  The remainder of such securities were carried at amortized cost. 

Change in Estimate for Net Investment Income Related to Mortgage-backed Bonds.
At December 31, 1993, LNC had $6,062,000,000 invested in mortgage-backed
bonds.  As indicated in note 1 on page 36, LNC recognizes income on these
securities using a constant effective yield based on anticipated prepayments. 
With the implementation of new investment software in December 1993, LNC was
able to significantly refine its estimate of the effective yield on such
securities to better reflect actual prepayments and estimates of future
prepayments.  This resulted in an increase in the amortization of purchase
discount on these securities of $58,600,000 and, after related amortization of
deferred acquisition costs ($18,500,000) and income taxes ($14,100,000),
increased 1993's income before cumulative effect of accounting change and net
income by $26,000,000 or $0.25 per share.  Most of the effect of this change
in estimate was within the Life Insurance and Annuities business segment.

Change in Estimate for Reinsurance Disability Income Reserves.  During
December 1993, income before cumulative effect of accounting change and net
income decreased by $32,800,000 or $0.32 per share as the result of
strengthening reinsurance disability income reserves by $50,500,000.  The need
for this reserve increase within the Life-Health Reinsurance segment was
identified as the result of management's assessment of current expectations
for morbidity trends and the impact of lower investment income due to lower
interest rates.



                                         -40-














                                         -41-

Fair values for fixed maturity securities are based on quoted market prices, 
where available.  For fixed maturity securities not actively traded, fair 
values are estimated using values obtained from independent pricing services 
or, in the case of private placements, are estimated by discounting expected 
future cash flows using a current market rate applicable to the coupon rate, 
credit quality, and maturity of the investments.  The fair values for equity
securities are based on quoted market prices.




The foregoing data is based on stated maturities.  Actual maturities will
differ in some cases because borrowers may have the right to call or pre-pay
obligations.



Fixed maturity securities available-for-sale, mortgage loans on real estate
and real estate with a combined carrying value of $147,300,000 were non-income
producing for the year ended December 31, 1993.



LNC has estimated the fair value of its investment in mortgage loans on real 
estate to be $3,466,700,000 at December 31, 1993 and $3,252,400,000 at
December 31, 1992.  These estimates were established using a discounted cash
flow method based on rating, maturity and future income when compared to the
expected yield for mortgages having similar characteristics.  The rating for
mortgages in good standing are based on property type, location, market
conditions, occupancy, debt service coverage, loan to value, caliber of
tenancy, borrower and payment record.  Impaired mortgage loan's fair values
are measured based either on the present value of expected future cash flows
discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, at the loan's observable 

                                         -42-


market price or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral 
dependent.  If the fair value of the mortgage loan as described above is less
than the recorded investment in the loan, the difference is recorded in the
mortgage loan provision for losses account.  The change in the mortgage loan
provision for losses account is reported with realized gain (loss) on invest-
ments.



LNC has estimated the fair value of its investments in policy loans to be
$626,400,000 at December 31, 1993 and $582,200,000 at December 31, 1992.  This 
estimate was calculated on a composite discounted cash flow basis using 
Treasury interest rates consistent with the maturity durations assumed. These 
durations were based on historical experience.

The carrying value for assets classified as other investments in the
accompanying balance sheet approximates their fair value.

As of December 31, 1993, LNC's commitments to make investments in fixed 
maturity securities (primarily private placements), mortgage loans on real 
estate and real estate were $256,700,000.  At December 31 1993, the $2,400,000
net fair value of the liability for these commitments, was based on the
difference between the value of the committed investments as of this date and
the commitment date, which would take into account changes in interest rates,
the counterparties' credit standing and the remaining terms of the commit-
ments.



Cash paid for federal income taxes in 1993, 1992 and 1991 was $279,700,000,  
$195,300,000, and $123,400,000 respectively.

The Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("1993 Act") changed LNC's prevailing
corporate federal income tax rate from 34% to 35% effective January 1, 1993. 
The application of this new tax rate to the December 31, 1992 deferred tax
recoverable balance resulted in a decrease in federal income taxes of $4.9
million for 1993.



                                        -43-





At December 31, 1993, LNC had net operating loss carryforwards of $312,100,000
for income tax purposes related to its foreign life reinsurance companies that
expire in years 1999 through 2008.

LNC is required to establish a "valuation allowance" for any portion of the 
deferred tax asset that management believes will not be realized.  In the 
opinion of management it is more likely than not that LNC will realize the 
benefit of the deferred tax asset and therefore no valuation allowance has
been established.  Of the total deferred tax asset, $548,800,000 is realizable
as a carryback to prior years income.  The remaining amounts will be realized
as they reverse against future income over the fifteen year carryforward
period.  Based on LNC's historical taxable income record, future income should
be more than sufficient to absorb the reversal of the deferred tax asset.

Prior to 1984, a portion of the life companies' current income was not subject 
to current income tax, but was accumulated for income tax purposes in a 
memorandum account designated as "policyholders' surplus."  The total of the 
life companies' balances in their respective "policyholders' surplus" accounts 
at December 31, 1983 of $222,400,000 was "frozen" by the Tax Reform Act of
1984 and, accordingly, there have been no additions to the accounts after that
date.  That portion of current income on which income taxes have been paid
will continue to be accumulated in a memorandum account designated as
"shareholders' surplus," and is available for dividends to shareholders
without additional payment of tax.  The December 31, 1993 total of the life
companies' account balances for their respective "shareholders' surplus" was
$1,560,500,000.  Should dividends to shareholders for each life company exceed
its respective "shareholders' surplus," amounts would need to be transferred
from its respective "policyholders' surplus" and would be subject to federal
income tax at that time.  In connection with the sale of Security-Connecticut
(see note 10 on page 53) $8,800,000 was transferred from policyholders'
surplus to shareholders' surplus and current income tax of $3,100,000 was
paid.  Under existing or foreseeable circumstances, LNC neither expects nor
intends that distributions will be made from the remaining balance in
"policyholders' surplus" of $213,600,000 that will result in any such tax. 
Accordingly, no provision for deferred income taxes has been provided by LNC
on its "policyholders' surplus" account.  In the event that such excess
distributions were made, it is estimated that income taxes of approximately
$74,800,000 would be due.

Undistributed earnings of LNC's foreign subsidiaries that are considered to be
indefinitely reinvested amounted to approximately $135,000,000 at December 31,
1993.  Accordingly, no provisions for U.S. income taxes have been provided

                                         -44-

thereon.  Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or
otherwise, LNC would be subject to both U.S. income taxes (subject to adjust-
ments for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to the applicable
foreign countries.  Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred U.S.
income tax liability is not practicable because of the complexities associated
with its hypothetical calculations.







The balance sheet captions, "Future Policy Benefits and Losses, Claims and
Loss Expense" and "Contractholder Funds," include investment type insurance 
contracts (i.e. deposit contracts and guaranteed interest contracts).  As of 
December 31, 1993 and 1992, the deposit contracts, which do not have defined
maturities, have a carrying value of $10,756,100,000 and $8,919,200,000,
respectively, (net of deferred acquisition costs of $636,700,000 and
$552,000,000, respectively) and a corresponding fair value of $10,557,000,000
and $8,782,800,000, respectively.  The fair values for the deposit contracts
are based on their approximate surrender values.  As of December 31, 1993 and
1992, guaranteed interest and similar contracts have a carrying value of
$3,824,400,000 and $3,506,900,000, respectively (net of deferred acquisition
costs of $17,300,000 and $30,900,000, respectively), and a corresponding fair
value of $3,967,700,000 and $3,696,600,000, respectively.  The fair values for
the guaranteed interest and similar contracts are estimated using principally
discounted cash flow calculations based on interest rates currently being
offered on similar contracts with maturities consistent with those remaining
for the contracts being valued.  The carrying value of the investment type
insurance contracts is stated net of deferred acquisition costs in order that
they be comparable with the fair value basis. 

The remainder of the balance sheet captions, "Future Policy Benefits and
Losses, Claims and Loss Expense" and "Contractholder Funds," that do not fit
the definition of "investment type insurance contracts" are considered
insurance contracts.  Fair value disclosures are not required for these
insurance contracts and have not been determined by LNC.  It is LNC's position
that the disclosure of the fair value of these insurance contracts is
important in that readers of these financial statements could draw
inappropriate conclusions about the LNC's shareholders' equity determined on a
fair value basis if only the fair value of assets and liabilities defined as
financial instruments are disclosed.  LNC and other companies in the insurance
industry are monitoring the related actions of the various rule-making bodies
and attempting to determine an appropriate methodology for estimating and
disclosing the "fair value" of their insurance contract liabilities.

                                         -45-




The 8% notes were called in March 1994 and, therefore, are classified as 
"current portion of long-term debt."

Future maturities of long-term debt are as follows (in millions):

1994 - $101.5                  1996 - $1.6                   1998 - $  1.6
1995 -  101.6                  1997 -  1.5             Thereafter -  228.8  

Fair values for long-term debt are estimated using discounted cash flow 
analysis based on LNC's current incremental borrowing rate for similar types
of borrowing arrangements.  For short-term debt, the carrying value approxi-
mates fair value.

LNC has a revolving credit agreement with a group of domestic and foreign
banks in the aggregate amount of $500,000,000.  This agreement, which expires
in July 1995, provides for interest on borrowings on various bases, including 
prime rates and certificate of deposit rates.  Under the terms of this 
agreement, LNC must maintain a prescribed level of tangible net worth and debt 
levels below 50% of tangible net worth, and is restricted in its ability to 
place additional liens against Corporate assets.  LNC has an additional
$50,000,000 revolving credit agreement with a bank. At December 31, 1993, LNC 
had no outstanding borrowings under these agreements.  During 1993, 1992 and
1991, fees paid under these agreements amounting to $1,300,000, $1,700,000,
and $518,000, respectively.  At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the $250,000 and
$1,100,000 fair value, respectively, for these unexercised revolving credit
agreements are based on fees LNC has paid to enter into these agreements or
will pay prior to maturity after taking into account the remaining term of the
agreements and LNC's credit standing.

Cash paid for interest for 1993, 1992 and 1991 was $44,200,000, $48,500,000, 
and $73,300,000, respectively.




The income statement caption, "Benefits and Settlement Expenses," is net of
reinsurance recoveries of $274,000,000, $218,200,000 and $348,400,000 for
the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively

The income statement caption, "Underwriting, Acquisition, Insurance and Other 
Expenses," includes amortization of deferred acquisition costs of
$571,800,000, $563,700,000 and $588,200,000 for the years ended December
31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  An additional $23,700,000 of deferred
acquisition costs was amortized and netted against "Realized Gain on
Investments" for the year ended December 31, 1993.


                                         -46- 

 6.  Employee Benefit Plans

Pensions Plans.  Eligible employees and full-time agents of LNC and its 
principal subsidiaries are covered by tax-qualified defined benefit pension 
plans.  The benefits for employees are based on total years of service and the 
highest 60 months of compensation during the last 10 years of employment.  The 
benefits for agents are based on a percentage of each agents' yearly earnings. 
The plans are funded by contributions to tax-exempt trusts.  LNC's funding 
policy is consistent with the funding requirements of federal law and 
regulations.  Contributions are intended to provide not only the benefits 
attributed to service to date, but also those expected to be earned in the 
future.  Plan assets consist principally of listed equity securities and 
corporate obligations and U.S. Government bonds.

LNC also sponsors three types of unfunded, nonqualified, defined benefit
plans.  A supplemental retirement plan provides employees and agents defined
benefit pension benefits in excess of limits imposed by federal tax law.  A
salary continuation plan provides certain officers of LNC defined pension
benefits based on years of service and final monthly salary upon death or
retirement.  A retirement plan for directors provides benefits based on years
of service and the amount of the retainer paid during the last year of
service.



Determination of the projected benefit obligation for the defined benefit
plans was based on an assumed discount rate of 7.0% and 7.5% for December 31, 
1993 and 1992, respectively.  The assumed long-term rate of increase in
compensation was 5.0% and 5.5% (6.0% and 6.5% for the salary continuation
plan) for December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  The assumed long-term
rate of return on plan assets was 9.0% for 1993, 1992 and 1991.


                                         -47-



401k Plan.  LNC and its subsidiaries also sponsor contributory defined 
contribution plans for eligible employees and agents.  LNC's contributions to 
the plans are equal to a participant's pre-tax contribution, not to exceed 6% 
of base pay, multiplied by a percentage, ranging from 25% to 150%, which
varies according to the certain incentive criteria as determined by LNC's
Board of Directors.  Expense for these plans amounted to $26,300,000,
$15,200,000 and $7,000,000 in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

Postretirement Medical and Life Insurance Benefit Plans. LNC sponsors unfunded
defined benefit plans that provide postretirement medical and life insurance
benefits to full-time employees and agents who, depending on the plan, have
worked for LNC 10 to 15 years and attained age 55 to 60.  Medical benefits are
also available to spouses and other dependents of employees and agents.  For
medical benefits, limited contributions are required from individuals retired
prior to November 1, 1988; contributions for later retirees, which can be
adjusted annually, are based on such items as years of service at retirement
and age at retirement.  The life insurance benefits are noncontributory,
although participants can elect supplemental contributory benefits.





The costs for postretirement benefits for years ended December 31, 1992 and
1991 shown above are prior to the adoption of FAS 106 (see note 2 on page 41)
and, therefore, represent the total amount of claims and premiums actually
paid.

The calculation of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation assumes a 
weighted-average annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered 
benefits (i.e. health care cost trend rate) of 13.5% for 1994 gradually 
decreasing to 5.5% by 2004 and remaining at that level thereafter.  The health 
care cost trend rate assumption has a significant affect on the amounts 
reported.  For example, increasing the assumed health care cost trend rates by 
one percentage point each year would increase the accumulated postretirement 
benefit obligation as of December, 1993 and 1992 by $13,600,000 and
$13,000,000, respectively, and the aggregate of the estimated service and
interest cost components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the
year ended December 31, 1993 by $1,500,000.  The calculation assumes a
long-term rate of increase in compensation of 5.0% and 5.5% for December 31,
1993 and 1992, respectively.  The weighted-average discount rate used in
determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 7.0% and
7.5% for December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

                                         -48-

Stock Option Plan.  LNC has a stock option incentive plan for key employees
of LNC and its subsidiaries which provides for the issuance of stock options,
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards and stock incentive awards. 
Stock options granted under the plan are at the market value at the date of
grant and, subject to termination of employment, expire ten years from the
date of grant.  Such options are not transferable other than on death and are
exercisable one year from date of grant for options issued prior to 1992. 
Options issued subsequent to 1991 are exercisable in 25% increments on the
option issuance anniversary in the four years following issuance.



Shares under options that were exercisable at December 31, 1993 totaled
1,497,502.

7. Restrictions, Commitments and Contingencies
Generally, the net assets of LNC's insurance subsidiaries available for 
transfer to the parent company are limited to the amounts that the insurance 
subsidiaries' net assets, as determined in accordance with statutory
accounting practices, exceed minimum statutory capital requirements; however,
payments of such amounts as dividends may be subject to approval by regulatory
authorities.  As of December 31, 1993, $2,300,000,000 of consolidated
shareholders' equity represents net assets of the LNC's insurance subsidiaries
that cannot be transferred in the form of dividends, loans or advances to the
parent company without prior approval of such regulatory authorities.  



Life-health insurance statutory net income for 1993, 1992 and 1991, excluding 
LNC's foreign life reinsurance companies, was $267,200,000, $202,600,000 and 
$259,600,000, respectively.



Certain of LNC's subsidiaries lease their home office properties through 
sale-leaseback agreements.  The agreements provide for a 25 year lease period 
with options to renew for six additional terms of five years each.  The

                                            -49- 

agreements also provide LNC with the right of first refusal to purchase the
properties during the term of the lease, including renewal periods, at a price
as defined in the agreements.  In addition, LNC has the option to purchase the
leased properties at fair market value as defined in the agreements on the
last day of the initial 25 year lease period ending in 2009 or the last day of
any of the renewal periods.
                                                                           
Total rental expense on operating leases in 1993, 1992 and 1991 was
$55,900,000, $62,300,000 and $78,700,000, respectively.  Future minimum rental
commitments are as follows (in millions):

1994 - $51.8                     1996 - $42.8                 1998 - $ 33.4
1995 -  47.1                     1997 -  37.8           Thereafter -  378.6

Rental expense excludes amounts previously reserved for as part of the sale of 
a portion of the Employee Life-Health Benefit segment (see note to 10 on page 
53); future minimum rental commitments include amounts applicable to such 
businesses.



Certain subsidiaries of LNC have invested in real estate partnerships which
use industrial revenue bonds to finance their projects.  LNC has guaranteed
the repayment of principal and interest on these bonds.  Certain subsidiaries
of LNC are also involved in other real estate partnerships that use
conventional mortgage loans.  In some cases, the terms of these arrangements
involve guarantees by each of the partners to indemnify the mortgagor in the
event a partner is unable to pay its principal and interest payments.  In
addition, certain subsidiaries of LNC have sold commercial mortgage loans
through grantor trusts which issued pass-through certificates.  These
subsidiaries have agreed to repurchase any mortgage loans which remain
delinquent for 90 days at a repurchase price substantially equal to the
outstanding principal balance plus accrued interest thereon to the date of
repurchase.  It is management's opinion that the value of the properties
underlying these commitments is sufficient that in the event of default the
impact would not be material to LNC.  Based on historical performance where
repurchases have been negligible and the current status, which indicates none
of the loans are delinquent, the fair value liability for the guarantees
related to the mortgage loan pass-through certificates is insignificant.  Fair
values for all other guarantees are based on fees that would be charged
currently to enter into similar agreements, taking into consideration the
remaining terms of the agreements and the counterparties' credit standing.


                                       -50-

LNC has entered into foreign currency exchange contracts to sell foreign
currencies at future dates and at specific prices.  LNC has also entered into
interest rate swaps, United Kingdom forward swaps, interest rate cap
agreements, spread-lock agreements, mortgage-backed securities total return
swaps and purchased financial future contracts.  LNC is subject to the risk
that the counterparties to these contracts will fail to perform and the risks
associated with changes in the value of underlying securities; however, such
changes in the value generally are offset by changes in the value of the items
being hedged by such contracts.  Fair values for these contracts are based on
current settlement values.  The current settlement values are based on quoted
market prices for the foreign currency exchange contracts and financial future
contracts, and on brokerage quotes, which utilized pricing models or formulas
using current assumptions, for all other swaps and agreements.



The spread-lock agreements expire in 1994 and 1995 and the interest rate cap
agreements expire in 1997 through 2003.  No realized gains or losses from
these agreements have been deferred.  Expense for these agreements amounted to
$3,600,000 and $1,200,000 in 1993 and 1992, respectively.

At December 31, 1993, LNC did not have a material concentration of financial
instruments in a single investee, industry or geographic location.

LNC's insurance companies both cede and assume reinsurance from other
companies.  That portion of risks exceeding each company's retention limit is
reinsured with other insurers.  During 1993, catastrophe reinsurance
arrangements for property-casualty coverages provided for a recovery of an
average of approximately 85% of losses in excess of $30,000,000 up to
$180,000,000 per occurrence.  The same limits are in effect for 1994 with
average recovery of 93% of losses.  Also, LNC seeks reinsurance coverage
within the business segments that sell life insurance that limits its
liabilities on an individual insured to $3,000,000.  To cover products other
than property-casualty and life insurance, LNC acquires other reinsurance
coverages with retentions and limits which management believes are appropriate
for the circumstances.  The accompanying financial statements reflect
premiums, benefits and settlement expenses and deferred acquisition costs, net
of reinsurance ceded (see note 5 on page 48).  Prior to January 1, 1993,
policy liabilities and accruals were also net of reinsurance ceded (see note 2
on page 38).  LNC's insurance companies remain liable if their reinsurers are
unable to meet their contractual obligations under the applicable reinsurance
agreements.  

For financial reinsurance assumed, reserve charges are netted against premiums
and substantially all assets and liabilities are netted due to a right of
offset.  At December 31, 1993, LNC's insurance companies have granted
$767,000,000 of statutory surplus to other insurance companies under these
transactions.  Generally, such amounts are offset by corresponding receivables
from the ceding company, which are secured by future profits on the reinsured
business.  However, LNC's insurance companies are subject to the risk that the
ceding company may become insolvent and the right of offset would not be
permitted.

Associated with these transactions, LNC's foreign reinsurance companies have 
obtained letters of credit in favor of various unaffiliated insurance
companies from which LNC assumes business.  This allows the ceding companies
to take statutory reserve credit.  The letters of credit issued by the banks
represent a guarantee of performance under the financial reinsurance agree-
ments.  At December 31, 1993, there were $928,800,000 of outstanding bank
letters of credit.  In exchange for the letters of credits, LNC paid the banks
$2,255,000 in fees.  Since substantially all the fees were based on rates
effective December 31, 1993, such fees approximate the fair value of LNC's
asset for the letters of credit as of December 31, 1993.

                                         -51-

LNC and its subsidiaries are involved in various pending or threatened legal 
proceedings arising from the conduct of their business.  In some instances, 
these proceedings include claims for punitive damages and similar types of 
relief in unspecified or substantial amounts, in addition to amounts for 
alleged contractual liability or requests for equitable relief.  After 
consultation with counsel and a review of available facts, it is management's 
opinion that these proceedings ultimately will be resolved without materially 
affecting the consolidated financial statements of LNC.

The increase in the number of insurance companies that are under regulatory 
supervision has resulted and is expected to continue to result in an increase 
in assessments by state guaranty funds to cover losses to policyholders of 
insolvent or rehabilitated companies.  Mandatory assessments may be partially 
recovered through a reduction in future premium taxes in some states.  LNC has 
accrued for these assessments net of estimated future premium tax deductions.

8.  Segment Information

LNC has four major business segments:  Property-Casualty, Life Insurance and 
Annuities, Life-Health Reinsurance and Employee Life-Health Benefits.  The 
Property-Casualty segment writes both commercial and personal coverages
through a network of independent agents.  The Life Insurance and Annuities
segment offers universal life, pension products and other individual coverages
through a network of career agents, independent general agencies, and
insurance agencies located within a variety of financial institutions. 
Life-Health Reinsurance sells reinsurance products and services to insurance
companies, HMOs, self-funded employers and other primary risk accepting
organizations in the U.S. and economically attractive international markets. 
The Employee Life-Health Benefits segment distributes group life and health
insurance, managed health care and other related coverages through career
agents and independent general agencies.  Activity which is not included in
the four major business segments is shown as "Other Operations." 

"Other Operations" includes unallocated corporate items, including corporate
investment income, interest expense on corporate debt and unallocated overhead
expenses.  Prior to 1993, all realized gain (loss) on investments were
included in Other Operations and corporate investment income was net of
amounts allocated to the business segments in lieu of realized gain (loss) on
investments.



Provisions for depreciation and capital additions were not material.

                                          -52-

9.  Shareholders' Equity

LNC's common and preferred stock is without par value.

All of the issued and outstanding Series A Preferred Stock is $3 Cumulative 
Convertible and is convertible at any time into shares of Common Stock at a 
conversion rate of eight shares of Common Stock for each share of Series A 
Preferred Stock, subject to adjustment for certain events. The Series A
Preferred Stock is redeemable at the option of the Corporation at $80 per
share plus accrued and unpaid dividends.

Each share of the Series E and F Preferred Stock is 5 1/2% Cumulative
Convertible Exchangeable Preferred Stock and is convertible into two shares of
LNC's Common Stock.  The Series E and Series F (issued during May 1991)
Preferred Stock issued at $68.85 and $71.604 per share, respectively, are
owned by Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance Company.  

The Series A, E and F Preferred Stock have full voting rights, subject to  
adjustment if LNC is in default as to the payment of dividends.  If LNC is 
liquidated or dissolved, holders of Series A, E and F Preferred Stock will be 
entitled to payments of $80.00, $68.85 and $71.604 per share, respectively. 
The difference between the aggregate preference on liquidation value and the
financial statement balance for the Series A and E Preferred Stock was
$2,200,000 and $400,000, respectively, at December 31, 1993.  Series A, E and
F Preferred Stock have parity with respect to liquidating distributions.

LNC has outstanding one Common Share Purchase Right ("Rights") on each
outstanding share of LNC's Common Stock.  A Right will also be issued with
each share of LNC's Common Stock that becomes outstanding prior to the time
the Rights become exercisable or expire.  If a person or group acquires
beneficial ownership of 20% or more or announces an offer that would result in
beneficial ownership of 30% or more of LNC's outstanding Common Stock, the
Rights become exercisable and each Right will entitle its holder to purchase
one share of LNC's Common Stock for $75.  If LNC is acquired in a business
combination transaction, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase, for
$75, common shares of the acquiring company having a market value of $150. 
Alternatively, if a 20% holder were to acquire LNC by means of a reverse
merger in which LNC and its stock survive or were to engage in certain 
"self-dealing" transactions, each Right not owned by the 20% holder would
entitle its holder to purchase, for $75, Common Stock of LNC having a market
value of $150.  LNC can redeem each Right for one cent at any time prior to
its becoming exercisable.  The Rights expire in November 1996.  As of December
31, 1993, there were 94,183,190 Rights outstanding.

During February 1993, LNC issued 9,200,000 shares of Common Stock.  The
proceeds from this offering, net of issuance and distribution costs, were
$316,100,000.  

During May 1993, LNC's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock split
for its Common Stock.  The record date for the stock split was June 4, 1993
and the additional shares were distributed to shareholders on June 25, 1993. 
Following this Common Stock split the conversion rate of LNC's Preferred Stock
Series A changed from four shares of Common Stock to eight shares of Common
Stock for each Series A Preferred Stock.  The conversion rate of LNC's
Preferred Stock Series E and F changed from one share of Common Stock to two
shares of Common Stock for each share of Series E and F Preferred Stock.  The
consolidated financial statements have been adjusted to reflect the effects of
the common stock split for all periods presented.

Earnings per share are computed based on the average number of common shares 
outstanding during each year (1993 - 102,307,356; 1992 - 92,977,312; 1991 - 
90,658,726) after assuming conversion of the Series A, E and F Preferred Stock
and the retroactive effect of the 1993 two-for-one stock split.  The effect of
stock options is not dilutive in the computation of earnings per share.


                                         -53-



Adjustments to deferred acquisition costs and amounts required to satisfy
policyholder commitments are netted against the Deferred Acquisition Costs
asset account and included with the Future Policy Benefits and Losses, Claims
and Loss Expenses liability account on the balance sheet, respectively.  


10.  Sale of Subsidiaries

LNC decided to substantially exit certain businesses that made up its Employee 
Life-Health Benefits segment by selling the third party administrator
operations and the health maintenance organizations along with certain related
group life and health policies, and to allow the remaining group life and
health operations conducted within the Lincoln National Life Insurance Company
to run off, except for certain small group business, which was to be
transferred to a subsidiary.  In December 1991, the estimated pre-tax loss
from these planned transactions of $135,000,000 ($89,100,000, after-tax) was
charged to loss on sale of subsidiaries.  This loss, which affected "Other
Operations", included the estimated cost of operating these entities to the
date of sale in May 1992, and the estimated cost of the run-off of the group
life and health operations and downsizing LNC's related management staff and
service operation, less the estimated gain from the sale of the business
described above.  During 1992, LNC completed the sale and received cash of
$145,300,000.  The 1992 gain from the sale and the disposal expenses have not
differed materially from the 1991 estimate.  The after-tax income from
operations for these businesses for the year ended December 31, 1991 was
$200,000.  The revenues for these businesses for the year ended December 31,
1991 was $1,461,000,000.

In December 1993, LNC recorded a provision for loss of $98,500,000 (also
$98,500,000 after-tax) in the "Other Operations" segment for the sale of
Security-Connecticut Corporation ("Security-Connecticut").  The sale was
completed on February 2, 1994 through an initial public offering and LNC
received cash and notes, net of related expenses, totaling $237,700,000.  For
the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, Security-Connecticut, which
operated in the Life Insurance and Annuities segment, had revenues of
$274,500,000, $252,400,000 and $243,600,000, respectively, and net income of
$24,000,000, $26,200,000 and $29,400,000, respectively.  As of December 31,
1993, Security-Connecticut had assets of $1,830,600,000 and liabilities of
$1,504,900,000.  

LNC filed a registration statement in December 1993 with the Securities
Exchange Commission involving an initial public offering of stock of its
subsidiary Employers Health Insurance Company ("Employers Health"), which
comprises the Employee Life-Health Benefits segment.  Should the initial
public offering be consummated, it is anticipated that LNC will retain a less
than 50% equity ownership interest in Employers Health and that a gain on sale
will be recognized in 1994.  The amount of gain cannot be determined until the
pricing of the offering has been completed.  For the years ended December 31,
1993, 1992 and 1991, Employers Health had revenues of $1,304,700,000,
$1,247,600,000 and $1,184,100,000, respectively, and net income of
$55,300,000, $43,900,000 and $43,700,000, respectively.  As of December 31,
1993, Employers Health had assets of $793,700,000 and liabilities of
$453,400,000.




                                        -54-

Report of Ernst and Young, Independent Auditors

Board of Directors
Lincoln National Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lincoln
National Corporation as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  Our audits
also included the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item
14(a).  These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the
Corporation's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements and schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Lincoln National 
Corporation at December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the consolidated results of its 
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 1993, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.
 
As discussed in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, in 1993 the
Corporation changed its method of accounting for postretirement benefits other
than pensions, accounting for income taxes, accounting for impairment of
loans, and accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities.



                                          Ernst & Young

Fort Wayne, Indiana
February 10, 1994




Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

There have been no disagreements with LNC's independent auditors which are
reportable pursuant to Item 304 of Regulation S-K.



                                          -55-

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information for this item relating to directors of LNC is incorporated by
reference to the sections captioned "NOMINEES FOR DIRECTOR" and "DIRECTORS
CONTINUING IN OFFICE" of  LNC's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
scheduled for May 12, 1994.

Executive Officers of the Registrant as of December 31, 1993 were as follows:

Name                      Position with LNC and Business Experience
(Age)                     During the Past Five Years    

Robert A. Anker           President, Chief Operating Officer and Director,   
(52)                      LNC since 1992.  President and Chief Executive       
                          Officer, American States* (1990-1991).  President    
                          and Chief Operating Officer, American States*        
                          (1985-1990).

Jon A. Boscia             Executive Vice President, LNC since 1991.            
(42)                      President, Lincoln National Investment               
                          Management Company* since 1991.  Senior Vice         
                          President, LNL* (1985-1991).

George E. Davis           Senior Vice President, LNC since March 1993.
(51)                      Vice President, Eastman Kodak Co. (1985-March 1993).


P. Kenneth Dunsire        Executive Vice President, LNC since 1986.
(62) 

Jack D. Hunter            Executive Vice President, LNC since 1986. General
(57)                      Counsel since 1971.

William J. Lawson         President and Chief Executive, Officer, Employers
(54)                      Health* since 1988.  Senior Vice President, LNL*     
                          (1984-1988).

F. Cedric McCurley        President and Chief Executive Officer, American    
(59)                      States* since 1992.  Executive Vice President,       
                          American States* (1986-1991).

H. Thomas McMeekin, III   Senior Vice President, LNC since 1992.
(40)                      Executive Vice President, Lincoln National           
                          Investment Management Company* (1987-1992).

Richard S. Robertson      Executive Vice President, LNC since 1986. 
(51)

Ian M. Rolland            Chairman and Director, LNC since 1992.
(60)                      President and Director, LNC (1975-1991).  Chief      
                          Executive Officer, LNC since 1977.

Richard C. Vaughan        Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer,
(44)                      LNC since 1992.  Senior Vice President, LNL* since   
                          1990.  Vice President, EQUICOR, Inc. (1988-1990).

Donald L. Van Wyngarden   Second Vice President and Controller, LNC since   
(54)                      1975.

Thomas M. West            Executive Vice President, LNL* since 1981.
(53)
                                        
*Denotes a subsidiary of LNC

There is no family relationship between any of the foregoing executive
officers, all of whom are elected annually.

                                         -56- 

Item 11. Executive Compensation

Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the section cap-
tioned "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" of LNC's Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting scheduled for May 12, 1994.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the sections
captioned "SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS" and
"SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS, NOMINEES AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS"
of LNC's
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for May 12, 1994.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
Information for this item is incorporated by reference to the section cap-
tioned "TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT ARRANGEMENTS" of LNC's
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting scheduled for May 12, 1994.

PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
Item 14(a)(1) Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of Lincoln National Corpora-
tion and subsidiaries are included in Item 8:

   Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 1993 and 1992

   Consolidated Statements of Income - Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992
and 1991 

   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity - Years ended December 31,  
1993, 1992 and 1991

   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years ended December 31, 1993, 
1992 and 1991 

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

   Report of Independent Auditors


Item 14(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules

The following consolidated financial statement schedules of Lincoln National 
Corporation and subsidiaries are included in Item 14(d):

   I - Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related Parties
 III - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant
   V - Supplementary Insurance Information
  VI - Reinsurance
 VII - Guarantees of Securities of Other Issuers
VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  IX - Short-term Borrowings
   X - Supplementary Information Concerning Property-Casualty Insurance        
       Operations

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under
the related instructions, are inapplicable, or the required information is
included in the consolidated financial statements, and therefore have been
omitted.


                                         -57-

Item 14(a)(3) Listing of Exhibits

The following exhibits of Lincoln National Corporation and subsidiaries are 
included in Item 14(c) - (Note:  The numbers preceding the exhibits correspond
to the specific numbers within Item 601 of Regulation S-K.):

      3(a)   The Articles of Incorporation of LNC as last amended May 24,      
      1991 are incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(a) of LNC's Form  
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991 filed with the          
      Commission on March 27, 1992.

      3(b)   The Bylaws of LNC as last amended January 1, 1992 are             
      incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) of LNC's Form 10-K for  
      the year ended December 31, 1991 filed with the Commission on       
      March 27, 1992.

      4(a)   Indenture for 8% Notes of LNC due March 15, 1997 and the 
      specimen Notes is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) of    
      LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, filed with  
      the Commission on March 27, 1992.
           
      4(b)   First Supplemental Indenture and Specimen Notes for LNC's 7 1/8%  
      Notes due July 15, 1999 are incorporated by reference to Annex B  
      and Annex C of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July   
      7, 1992.

      4(c)   First Supplemental Indenture and Specimen Notes for LNC's 7 5/8%  
      Notes due July 15, 2002 are incorporated by reference to Annex B  
      and Annex D of LNC's Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July   
      7, 1992.

      4(d)   Fiscal Agency Agreement related to sale of $100,000,000           
      aggregate principal amount of 9 3/4% Notes of LNC due October 20, 
      1995 and the specimen of 9 3/4% Notes.

     10(a)*  The Lincoln National Corporation 1986 Stock Option Incentive      
     Plan as last amended May 13, 1993.

     10(b)*  The Lincoln National Corporation 1982 Stock Option Incentive      
     Plan as last amended May 7, 1987.

     10(c)*  The Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Salary Continuation  
     Plan as last amended January 1, 1992 is incorporated by reference 
     to Exhibit 10(c) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December   
     31, 1992, filed with the Commission on March 30, 1993.

     10(d)*  The Lincoln National Corporation Executive Value Sharing Plan is  
     incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) of LNC's Form 10-K     
     for the year ended December 31, 1992, filed with the Commission   
     on March 30, 1993.

     10(e)*  The Lincoln National Corporation Management Incentive Plan II as  
     last amended August 1, 1989, is incorporated by reference to      
     Exhibit 10(e) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,  
     1989, filed with the Commission on March 29, 1990.

     10(f)*  Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Severance Benefit Plan   
     as last amended January 10, 1990, is incorporated by reference    
     to Exhibit 10(f) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December   
     31, 1990, filed with the Commission on March 28, 1991.

     10(g)*  The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors Retirement     
     Plan as last amended March 15, 1990, is incorporated by reference 
     to Exhibit 10(g) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December   
     31, 1990, filed with the Commission on March 28, 1991.

     10(h)*  The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors Benefits Plan  
     is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) of LNC's Form 10-K  
     for the year ended December 31, 1992, filed with the Commission   
     on March 30, 1993. 

                                       -58-


     10(i)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect to the     
     American States' home office property, is incorporated by         
     reference to Exhibit 10(i) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended  
     December 31, 1990, filed with the Commission on March 28, 1991.

     10(j)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect to LNL's   
     home office property, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit     
     10(j) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990,    
     filed with the Commission on March 28, 1991.

     10(k)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect to         
     Lincoln National Pension Insurance Company's ("LNP") home office  
     property, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) of LNC's  
     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, filed with the    
     Commission on March 28, 1991.  [LNP was merged into its parent,   
     LNL, effective January 1, 1989.]

     10(l)   Lease dated March 1, 1984, with respect to Security-              
     Connecticut's home office property, is incorporated by reference  
     to Exhibit 10(l) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December   
     31, 1990, filed with the Commission on March 28, 1991.

     10(m)*  Descriptions of compensation arrangements with Executive          
     Officers.

     10(n)*  The Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Supplemental         
     Pension Benefit Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit      
     10(n) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992,    
     filed with the Commission on March 30, 1993.

     10(o)*  Lincoln National Corporation Executive Savings and Profit         
     Sharing Plan as amended as of January 1, 1992 is incorporated by  
     reference to Exhibit 10(o) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year ended  
     December 31, 1992, filed with the Commission on March 30, 1993.

     10(p)   Lease dated February 14, 1991, with respect to property occupied  
     by select Fort Wayne operations of the Registrant is incorporated 
     by reference to Exhibit 10(q) of LNC's Form 10-K for the year     
     ended December 31, 1991 filed with the Commission on March 27,    
     1992.

     10(q)*  Lincoln National Corporation 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee     
     Directors.

     10(r)*  Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Excess Compensation      
     Benefit Plan.


             *This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or    
              arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this form      
              pursuant to Item 14(c) of this report.

     11      Computation of Per Share Earnings 

     21      The List of Subsidiaries of LNC.

     23      Consent of Independent Auditors.               

     28      Information from Reports Furnished to State Insurance             
             Regulatory Authorities.

Item 14(b) - During the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 1993,    
             no reports on Form 8-K were filed with the Commission.

Item 14(c) - The exhibits of Lincoln National Corporation and subsidiaries     
             are listed in Item 14(a)(3) above.

Item 14(d) - The financial schedules for Lincoln National Corporation and      
             subsidiaries follow on pages 59 through 68.


                                         -59-



(A) Investments which are deemed to have declines in value that are            
    other than temporary are written down or reserved for to reduce their      
    carrying value to their estimated realizable value.


                                           -60-



 These condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the   
 consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln       
 National Corporation and subsidiaries (see pages 30 through 54).


                                         -61-



 These condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the   
 consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln       
 National Corporation and subsidiaries (see pages 30 through 54).


                                         -62-


 These condensed financial statements should be read in conjunction with the   
 consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes of Lincoln       
 National Corporation and subsidiaries (see pages 30 through 54).



                                         -63-



                                          -64-




                                         -65-


                                           -66-


      

                                          -67-               


                                         -68-





                                         -69-

               LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
             EXHIBIT INDEX FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                   For the Year Ended December 31, 1993


Exhibit
Number                                                                    Page 
 3(a)   Articles of Incorporation of LNC as last amended 
          May 24, 1991.                                                      
 3(b)   Bylaws of LNC as last amended January 1, 1992.                       

 4(a)   Indenture for 8% Notes due March 15, 1997 and
          Specimen Notes. 
 4(b)   Indenture for 7 1/8% due July 15, 1999 and
          Specimen Notes.*
 4(c)   Indenture for 7 5/8% Notes due July 15, 2002 and
          Specimen Notes.*
 4(d)   Fiscal Agency Agreement for 9 3/4% Notes due 
          October 30, 1995, and Specimen Notes.                            71  

10(a)   Lincoln National Corporation 1986 Stock Option
          Incentive Plan.                                                 101
10(b)   Lincoln National Corporation 1982 Stock Option
          Incentive Plan.                                                 110
10(c)   The Lincoln National Corporation Executives'
          Salary Continuation Plan.*

10(d)   The Lincoln National Corporation Executive Value
          Sharing Plan.*
10(e)   The Lincoln National Corporation Management Incentive
          Plan II.*
10(f)   Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Severance
          Benefit Plan as last amended January 10, 1990.*
10(g)   The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors
          Retirement Plan.*
10(h)   The Lincoln National Corporation Outside Directors
          Benefits Plan.*
10(i)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect
          to the American States' home office property.*
10(j)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect
          to LNL's home office property.*
10(k)   Lease and Agreement dated August 1, 1984, with respect
          to LNP's home office property.*
10(l)   Lease dated March 1, 1984, with respect to the
          Security-Connecticut's home office property.*
10(m)   Descriptions of Compensation Arrangements with
          Executive Officers.                                             118 
10(n)   The Lincoln National Corporation Executives'
          Supplemental Pension Benefit Plan.*
10(o)   The Lincoln National Corporation Executive Savings and
          Profit Sharing Plan as last amended January 1, 1992.*
10(p)   Lease dated February 14, 1991, with respect to select
          Fort Wayne business operation's office space.*
10(q)   Lincoln National Corporation 1993 Stock Plan for Non-
          Employee Directors.                                             120
10(r)   Lincoln National Corporation Executives' Excess
          Compensation Benefit Plan.                                      125

11      Computation of Per Share Earnings.                                128 

21      List of Subsidiaries of LNC.                                      129

23      Consent of Independent Auditors.                                  135

28      Information from Reports Furnished to State Insurance 
          Regulatory Authorities.                                   P     136

        *Incorporated by Reference


                                         -70-

                              Signature Page



                       LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION

Pursuant to the requirements
of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act      By /s/ Ian M. Rolland          March 10, 1994
of 1934, LNC has duly caused        Ian M. Rolland,
this report to be signed on         (Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and 
behalf by the under-                 Director)
signed, thereunto duly
authorized.                      By /s/ Robert A. Anker         March 10, 1994
                                    Robert A. Anker,
                                    (President, Chief Operating Officer and
                                     Director)

                                 By /s/ Richard C. Vaughan      March 10, 1994
                                    Richard C. Vaughan,
                                    (Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
                                     Officer)

                                 By /s/ Donald L. Van Wyngarden March 10, 1994
                                    Donald L. Van Wyngarden
                                    (Second Vice President and Controller)


Pursuant to the requirements     By /s/ J. Patrick Barrett      March 10, 1994
of the Securities Exchange          J. Patrick Barrett
Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by         By /s/ Thomas D. Bell, Jr.     March 10, 1994
the following Directors             Thomas D. Bell, Jr
of LNC on the date indicated.
                                 By /s/ Daniel R. Efroymson     March 10, 1994
                                    Daniel R. Efroymson
                             
                                 By /s/ Harry L. Kavetas        March 10, 1994
                                    Harry L. Kavetas

                                 By /s/ M. Leanne Lachman       March 10, 1994
                                    M. Leanne Lachman

                                 By /s/ Leo J. McKernan         March 10, 1994
                                    Leo J. McKernan

                                 By /s/ Earl L. Neal            March 10, 1994
                                    Earl L. Neal

                                 By /s/ John M. Pietruski       March 10, 1994
                                    John M. Pietruski

                                 By /s/ Jill S. Ruckelshaus     March 10, 1994
                                    Jill S. Ruckelshaus

                                 By /s/ Gordon A. Walker        March 10, 1994
                                    Gordon A. Walker

                                 By /s/ Gilbert R. Whitaker,Jr. March 10, 1994
                                    Gilbert R. Whitaker,Jr.




