
10-K
THE SOUTHERN COMPANY FORM 10-K 1997





          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:1

Each of the  following  classes or series of securities  registered  pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act is registered on the New York Stock Exchange.









             Indicate by check mark whether the  registrants  (1) have filed all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the
registrants  were required to file such  reports),  and (2) have been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No___

             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers pursuant
to  Item  405 of  Regulation  S-K is  not  contained  herein,  and  will  not be
contained,  to the  best of  registrants'  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or
information  statements  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ( )

             Aggregate  market value of voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of
The Southern  Company at February 28, 1998:  $17.1  billion.  Each of such other
registrants  is a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of The Southern  Company and has no
voting stock other than its common stock. A description of  registrants'  common
stock follows:



                                       i









                         CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING
                           FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

         This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking  statements in
addition to  historical  information.  The  registrants  caution  that there are
various  important  factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those indicated in the forward-looking statements;  accordingly,  there can
be no assurance  that such  indicated  results will be realized.  These  factors
include  legislative  and  regulatory  initiatives  regarding  deregulation  and
restructuring  of the electric  utility  industry;  the extent and timing of the
entry of  additional  competition  in the  markets of  SOUTHERN's  subsidiaries;
potential business strategies,  including acquisitions or dispositions of assets
or internal  restructuring,  that may be pursued by the  registrants;  state and
federal rate  regulation  in the United  States;  changes in or  application  of
environmental  and  other  laws  and  regulations  to  which  SOUTHERN  and  its
subsidiaries  are  subject;   political,   legal  and  economic  conditions  and
developments  in the  United  States  and in  foreign  countries  in  which  the
subsidiaries  operate;  financial market conditions and the results of financing
efforts;  changes in  commodity  prices and  interest  rates;  weather and other
natural phenomena; the performance of projects undertaken by the non-traditional
business and the success of efforts to invest in and develop new  opportunities;
and other  factors  discussed  elsewhere  herein and in other reports filed from
time to time by the registrants with the SEC.



                                      iii





                                     PART I
Item 1.  BUSINESS

    SOUTHERN was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945.
SOUTHERN is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do
business as a foreign corporation under the laws of Alabama. SOUTHERN owns all
the outstanding common stock of ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and
SAVANNAH, each of which is an operating public utility company. ALABAMA and
GEORGIA each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. The operating
affiliates supply electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, Florida,
Mississippi and Georgia, respectively, and SEGCO owns generating units at a
large electric generating station which supplies power to ALABAMA and GEORGIA.
More particular information relating to each of the operating affiliates is as
follows:

      ALABAMA is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama
      on November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power
      Company, Gulf Electric Company and Houston Power Company. The predecessor
      Alabama Power Company had had a continuous existence since its
      incorporation in 1906.

      GEORGIA was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June
      26, 1930, and admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948.

      GULF is a corporation which was organized under the laws of the State of
      Maine on November 2, 1925, and admitted to do business in Florida on
      January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976 and in Georgia on
      November 20, 1984.

      MISSISSIPPI was incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on
      July 12, 1972, was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28,
      1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the
      predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and
      properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power
      Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine on November
      24, 1924, and was admitted to do business in Mississippi on December 23,
      1924, and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

    SAVANNAH is a corporation existing under the laws of the State of Georgia;
    its charter was granted by the Secretary of State on August 5, 1921.

    SOUTHERN also owns all the outstanding common stock of Southern Energy,
Southern Communications, Southern Nuclear, SCS (the system service company),
Energy Solutions and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. Southern Energy is
focused on several key international and domestic business lines, including
energy distribution, integrated utilities, stand-alone generation, and other
energy-related products and services. A further description of Southern Energy's
business and organization follows later in this section under "Non-Traditional
Business." Southern Communications provides digital wireless communications
services to SOUTHERN's operating affiliates and also markets these services to
the public within the Southeast. Southern Nuclear provides services to the
Southern electric system's nuclear plants. Energy Solutions develops new
business opportunities related to energy products and services.

    SEGCO owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of 1,019,680
kilowatts at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama, and
ALABAMA and GEORGIA are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO's capacity and
energy. ALABAMA acts as SEGCO's agent in the operation of SEGCO's units and
furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its units. SEGCO also owns three 230,000
volt transmission lines extending from Plant Gaston to the Georgia state line at
which point connection is made with the GEORGIA transmission line system.

The SOUTHERN System

Traditional Business

The transmission facilities of each of the operating affiliates and SEGCO are
connected to the respective company's own generating plants and other sources of
power and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other
operating affiliates and SEGCO by means of heavy-duty high voltage lines. (In
the case of GEORGIA's integrated transmission system, see Item 1 - BUSINESS -
"Territory Served By Operating Affiliates" herein.)

                                      I-1


    Operating contracts covering arrangements in effect with principal
neighboring utility systems provide for capacity exchanges, capacity purchases
and sales, transfers of economy energy and other similar transactions.
Additionally, the operating affiliates have entered into voluntary reliability
agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power
Coordinating Group and TVA and with Carolina Power & Light Company, Duke Energy
Corporation, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and Virginia Electric and
Power Company, each of which provides for the establishment and periodic review
of principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation and
transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs,
emergency operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power
supply. The operating affiliates have joined with other utilities in the
Southeast (including those referred to above) to form the SERC to augment
further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply. Through the SERC, the
operating affiliates are represented on the National Electric Reliability
Council.

    An intra-system interchange agreement provides for coordinating operations
of the power producing facilities of the operating affiliates and SEGCO and the
capacities available to such companies from non-affiliated sources and for the
pooling of surplus energy available for interchange. Coordinated operation of
the entire interconnected system is conducted through a central power supply
coordination office maintained by SCS. The available sources of energy are
allocated to the operating affiliates to provide the most economical sources of
power consistent with good operation. The resulting benefits and savings are
apportioned among the operating affiliates.

    SCS has contracted with SOUTHERN, each operating affiliate, Southern Energy,
various of the other subsidiaries, Southern Nuclear and SEGCO to furnish, at
cost and upon request, the following services: general executive and advisory
services, power pool operations, general engineering, design engineering,
purchasing, accounting, finance and treasury, taxes, insurance and pensions,
corporate, rates, budgeting, public relations, employee relations, systems and
procedures and other services with respect to business and operations. Southern
Energy, Energy Solutions and Southern Communications have also secured from the
operating affiliates certain services which are furnished at cost.

    Southern Nuclear has contracted with ALABAMA to operate its Farley Nuclear
Plant, as authorized by amendments to the plant operating licenses. Effective
March 22, 1997, Southern Nuclear, pursuant to a contract with GEORGIA, assumed
responsibility for the operation of plants Hatch and Vogtle, as authorized by
amendments to the operating licenses for both plants. See Item 1 BUSINESS -
"Regulation - Atomic Energy Act of 1954" herein.

Non-Traditional Business

SOUTHERN continues to consider new business opportunities, particularly those
which allow use of the expertise and resources developed through its regulated
utility experience. These endeavors began in 1981 and are conducted through
Southern Energy and other subsidiaries. SOUTHERN presently has authorization
from the SEC (the "SEC Order") which in effect will allow it to use the proceeds
from financings for investment in EWGs and FUCOs up to an amount not exceeding
100% of SOUTHERN's consolidated retained earnings. A consumer group that had
sought to intervene in the SEC proceeding has filed an appeal, which remains
pending, with U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit seeking judicial review
of the SEC Order. At December 31, 1997, SOUTHERN's consolidated retained
earnings amounted to $3,842 million and its aggregate investment in EWGs and
FUCOs amounted to $2,795 million.

    Worldwide, Southern Energy develops and manages electricity and other energy
related projects, including domestic energy trading and marketing.

    Reference is made to Note 15 to the financial statements of SOUTHERN in Item
8 herein for additional information regarding SOUTHERN's segment and related
information.

    In 1995, SOUTHERN acquired SWEB, one of the United Kingdom's 12 regional
electric distribution companies, for approximately $1.8 billion. In July 1996, a
25 percent interest in SWEB was sold. SWEB is, to some extent, involved in power
generation and certain non-regulated activities which include gas marketing and
telecommunications. In mid-1997, the acquisition of all interest in CEPA was
completed for a total net investment of $2.1 billion. CEPA is engaged in the
business of developing, constructing, owning and operating electric power

                                      I-2


generation facilities. Its current operations include installed operating
capacity of approximately 3,306 megawatts, with projects either completed or
under development in the Philippines, the People's Republic of China, and
Pakistan. In September 1997, Southern Energy acquired a 26% interest in a German
utility for approximately $820 million. For additional information regarding the
acquisitions of SWEB and CEPA, reference is made to Note 14 to SOUTHERN's
financial statements in Item 8 herein.

    See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Other Electric Generation Facilities" herein for
additional information regarding Southern Energy projects.

    As the energy marketplace evolves, Southern Energy is positioning SOUTHERN
to become a major competitor in energy trading and marketing activities. As part
of this strategy, Southern Energy entered into a joint venture with Vastar
Resources effective in January 1998. The two companies combined their energy
trading and marketing operations to form a new full-service energy provider,
Southern Company Energy Marketing. Southern Company Energy Marketing holds a top
10 position in the United States in both natural gas and power marketing.

    Southern Energy and Energy Solutions render consulting services and market
SOUTHERN system expertise in the United States and throughout the world. They
contract with other public utilities, commercial concerns and government
agencies for the rendition of services and the licensing of intellectual
property. More specifically, Energy Solutions is focusing on new and existing
programs to enhance customer satisfaction and efficiency and stockholder value,
such as: Good Cents, an energy efficiency program for electric utility
customers; EnerLink, a group of energy management products and services for
large commercial and industrial electricity users; Energy Services, providing
total energy solutions to industrial and commercial customers; other energy
management programs under development; and telecommunications operations related
to energy management programs.

     In 1995, Southern Communications began serving SOUTHERN's operating
affiliates and marketing its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast.
The system covers 122,000 square miles and combines the functions of two-way
radio dispatch, cellular phone, short text and numeric messaging and wireless
data transfer.

    These continuing efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities
offer the potential of earning returns which may exceed those of rate-regulated
operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of risk.
SOUTHERN expects to make substantial investments over the period 1998-2000 in
these and other new businesses.

Certain Factors Affecting the Industry

Various factors are currently affecting the electric utility industry in
general, including increasing competition and the regulatory changes related
thereto, costs required to comply with environmental regulations, and the
potential for new business opportunities (with their associated risks) outside
of traditional rate-regulated operations. The effects of these and other factors
on the SOUTHERN system are described herein. Particular reference is made to
Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Non-Traditional Business," "Competition" and "Environmental
Regulation."

                                      I-3




Construction Programs

The subsidiary companies of SOUTHERN are engaged in continuous construction
programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective
systems. Construction additions or acquisitions of property during 1998 through
2000 by the operating affiliates, SEGCO, SCS, Southern Communications and
Southern Energy are estimated as follows: (in millions)

   ---------------------------------------------------------
                                   1998      1999      2000
                                ----------------------------
   ALABAMA                       $  615    $  723   $  524
   GEORGIA                          506       561      549
   GULF                              68        62       62
   MISSISSIPPI                       67        92      291
   SAVANNAH                          22        23       21
   SEGCO                              3         8        1
   SCS                                7        15        6
   Southern
   Communications                    67        20       18
   Southern Energy*                 629       493       78
   Other                             19        13       18
   =========================================================
   SOUTHERN system               $2,003    $2,010   $1,568
   =========================================================

    *These construction estimates do not include amounts which may be expended
by Southern Energy on future power production projects or by any subsidiaries
created to effect such future projects. (See Item 1 - BUSINESS -
"Non-Traditional Business" herein.)


                                      I-4





    *Southern Communications, SCS and Southern Nuclear plan capital additions to
general  plant  in 1998 of $67  million,  $7  million  and  $400  thousand,
respectively,  while SEGCO plans  capital  additions of $3 million to generating
facilities.   Southern  Energy  plans  capital  additions  of  $555  million  to
generating facilities, $73 million to distribution facilities, and $1 million to
general  plant.  These  estimates  do not  reflect the  possibility  of Southern
Energy's   securing  a  contract(s)  to  buy  or  build  additional   generating
facilities.  Other  non-traditional  capital  additions  planned  for  1998  are
approximately $19 million.  (See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Non-Traditional  Business"
herein.)

    The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and
actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous
factors. These factors include changes in business conditions; revised load
growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations; changes in existing
nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements; increasing costs of labor,
equipment and materials; and cost of capital.

    The operating affiliates have approximately 1,600 megawatts of combined
cycle generation scheduled to be placed in service by 2001. In addition,
significant construction will continue related to transmission and distribution
facilities and the upgrading of generating plants . (See Item 2 - PROPERTIES -
"Other Electric Generation Facilities" herein for additional information
relating to facilities under development.)

    In 1991, the Georgia legislature passed legislation which requires GEORGIA
and SAVANNAH each to file an Integrated Resource Plan for approval by the
Georgia PSC. Under the plan rules, the Georgia PSC must pre-certify the
construction of new power plants and new purchase power contracts. (See Item 1 -
BUSINESS - "Rate Matters - Integrated Resource Planning" herein.)

    See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Regulation - Environmental Regulation" herein for
information with respect to certain existing and proposed environmental
requirements and Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein for
additional information concerning ALABAMA's and GEORGIA's joint ownership of
certain generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated
utilities.
                                      I-5





Financing Programs

In 1997, SOUTHERN raised $360 million from the issuance of new common stock
under SOUTHERN's various stock plans. Also in 1997, SOUTHERN issued a total of
$600 million in trust and capital preferred securities for the direct benefit of
SOUTHERN. SOUTHERN plans to issue additional equity capital in 1998. The amount
and timing of additional equity capital to be raised in 1998, as well as
subsequent years, will be contingent on SOUTHERN's investment opportunities.
Equity capital can be provided from any combination of public offerings, private
placements, or SOUTHERN's stock plans. Any portion of the common stock required
during 1998 for SOUTHERN's stock plans that is not provided from the issuance of
new stock will be acquired on the open market in accordance with the terms of
such plans.

    The operating affiliates plan to obtain the funds required for construction
and other purposes from sources similar to those used in the past, which was
primarily from internal sources. However, the type and timing of any financings
- -- if needed -- will depend on market conditions and regulatory approval.
Historically the operating affiliates have relied on issuances of first mortgage
bonds and preferred stock, in addition to pollution control revenue bonds issued
for their benefit by public authorities, to meet their long-term external
financing requirements. Recently, financings have consisted of unsecured debt
and trust preferred securities. In this regard, the operating affiliates --
except SAVANNAH -- sought and obtained stockholder approval in 1997 to amend
their respective corporate charters eliminating restrictions on the amount of
unsecured indebtedness they may incur.

    Short-term debt is often utilized as appropriate at SOUTHERN and the
operating affiliates. The amount of securities representing short-term unsecured
indebtedness allowable under SAVANNAH's charter at December 31, 1997 was $71
million (20% of secured indebtedness and other capital). Under the provisions of
SAVANNAH's charter, this percentage will be reduced to 10% on July 1, 1999. In
the case of ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF and MISSISSIPPI, preferred shareholders
approved the removal of restrictions on unsecured indebtedness under the
respective charters. SOUTHERN does not have a charter limitation on short-term
unsecured indebtedness.

    The maximum amounts of short-term or term-loan indebtedness authorized by
the appropriate regulatory authorities are shown on the following table:

                                      Outstanding at
                       Amount        December 31, 1997
                     ------------    ---------------------
                               (in millions)
    ALABAMA          $  750 (1)             $306.9
    GEORGIA           1,700 (2)              366.2
    GULF                 300(1)               82.3
    MISSISSIPPI          350(1)               80.0
    SAVANNAH              90(2)               30.0
    SOUTHERN           2,000(1)              768.7
    ------------------------------------------------------

Notes:

    (1) ALABAMA's authority is based on authorization received from the Alabama
PSC, which expires December 31, 1998. No SEC authorization is required for
ALABAMA. GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SOUTHERN have received SEC authorization to issue
from time to time short-term and/or term-loan notes to banks and commercial
paper to dealers in the amounts shown through December 31, 2003, December 31,
2002 and March 31, 2001, respectively.

    (2) GEORGIA and SAVANNAH have received SEC authorization to issue from time
to time short-term and term-loan notes to banks and commercial paper to dealers
in the amounts shown through December 31, 2002. Authorization for term-loan
indebtedness is also required by and has been received from the Georgia PSC.
Currently, GEORGIA and SAVANNAH have remaining authority from the Georgia PSC of
$1.4 billion and $96.1 million, respectively, expiring December 31, 1998.

    Reference is made to Note 5 to the financial statements for SOUTHERN,
ALABAMA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH and Note 9 to the financial statements
for GEORGIA in Item 8 herein for information regarding the registrants' credit
arrangements.

    New projects undertaken by subsidiaries of Southern Energy are generally
financed through a combination of equity funds
provided by SOUTHERN and non-recourse debt incurred on a project-specific basis.


                                      I-6


Fuel Supply

The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's supply of electricity is derived
predominantly from coal. The sources of generation for the years 1995 through
1997 and the estimates for 1998 are shown below:
                                                   Oil and
   ALABAMA            Coal    Nuclear    Hydro       Gas
                    --------- ---------- --------- ---------
            1995       73%       19%        8%        *
            1996       72        20         8         *
            1997       72        19         8         1
            1998       74        18         7         1

   GEORGIA
            1995       74        22         3         1
            1996       74        22         3         1
            1997       75        22         2         1
            1998       75        21         3         1
                                         
   GULF
            1995       99        **        **         1
            1996       99        **        **         1
            1997      100        **        **         *
            1998       99        **        **         1

   MISSISSIPPI
            1995       79        **        **        21
            1996       85        **        **        15
            1997       85        **        **        15
            1998       85        **        **        15

   SAVANNAH
            1995       80        **        **        20
            1996       90        **        **        10
            1997       87        **        **        13
            1998       88        **        **        12

   SEGCO
            1995      100        **        **         *
            1996      100        **        **         *
            1997      100        **        **         *
            1998      100        **        **         *

   SOUTHERN system***
            1995       77        17         4         2
            1996       77        17         4         2
            1997       77        17         4         2
            1998       79        16         4         1
   ---------------------------------------------------------
    *Less than 0.5%.
  **Not applicable.
***Amounts shown for the SOUTHERN system are weighted
      averages of the operating affiliates and SEGCO.

    The average costs of fuel in cents per net kilowatt-hour generated for 1995
through 1997 are shown below:

                                              Oil and   Weighted
   ALABAMA             Coal      Nuclear       Gas      Average
                       --------- ---------- ----------- -----------
            1995        1.71       0.50           *        1.48
            1996        1.71       0.50           *        1.46
            1997        1.73       0.54           *        1.49

   GEORGIA
            1995        1.67       0.60        4.68        1.44
            1996        1.55       0.55        5.50        1.35
            1997        1.53       0.52        5.19        1.32

   GULF
            1995        2.08         **        3.56        2.09
            1996        1.99         **        6.41        2.02
            1997        1.97         **        5.59        1.99

   MISSISSIPPI
            1995        1.58         **        2.33        1.64
            1996        1.43         **        4.32        1.57
            1997        1.44         **        3.54        1.57

   SAVANNAH
            1995        1.77         **        3.80        2.18
            1996        1.76         **        8.41        2.42
            1997        1.91         **        4.63        2.27

   SEGCO
            1995        1.87         **           *        1.87
            1996        1.72         **           *        1.72
            1997        1.51         **           *        1.51

   SOUTHERN system***
            1995        1.73        0.56       3.37        1.53
            1996        1.65        0.52       5.20        1.48
            1997        1.63        0.53       4.38        1.46
   ----------------------------------------------------------------
    *  Not meaningful because of minimal generation from fuel  source.
  **   Not applicable.
***    Amounts shown for the SOUTHERN system are weighted averages of the
       operating affiliates and SEGCO. See SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA in Item 6
       herein for each registrant's source of energy supply.



                                      I-7



    As of February 13, 1998, the operating affiliates and SEGCO had stockpiles
of coal on hand at their respective coal-fired plants which represented an
estimated 23 days of recoverable supply for bituminous coal and 27 days for
sub-bituminous coal. It is estimated that approximately 66.6 million tons of
coal will be consumed in 1998 by the operating affiliates and SEGCO (including
those units GEORGIA owns jointly with OPC, MEAG and Dalton and operates for FP&L
and JEA and the units ALABAMA owns jointly with AEC). The operating affiliates
and SEGCO currently have 31 coal contracts. These contracts cover remaining
terms of up to 14 years. Approximately 16% of 1998 estimated coal requirements
will be purchased in the spot market. Management has set a goal whereby the spot
market should be utilized, absent the transition from coal contract expirations,
for 20 to 30% of the SOUTHERN system's coal supply. Additionally, it has been
determined that approximately 30 days of recoverable supply is the appropriate
level for coal stockpiles. During 1997, the operating affiliates' and SEGCO's
average price of coal delivered was approximately $36.8 per ton.

    The typical sulfur content of coal purchased under contracts ranges from
approximately 0.49% to 2.76% sulfur by weight. Fuel sulfur restrictions and
other environmental limitations have increased significantly and may increase
further the difficulty and cost of obtaining an adequate coal supply. See Item 1
- - BUSINESS - "Regulation - Environmental Regulation" herein.

    Changes in fuel prices are generally reflected in fuel adjustment clauses 
contained in rate schedules.  See Item 1 - BUSINESS -"Rate Matters - Rate 
Structure" herein.

    ALABAMA owns coal lands and mineral rights in the Warrior Coal Field,
located northwest of Birmingham in the vicinity of its Gorgas Steam Plant. SEGCO
also owns coal reserves in the Warrior Coal Field and in the Cahaba Coal Field,
which is located southwest of Birmingham. ALABAMA has agreements with
non-affiliated industrial and mining firms to mine coal from ALABAMA's reserves,
as well as their own reserves, for supply to ALABAMA's generating units.

    The operating affiliates have renegotiated, bought out or otherwise
terminated various coal supply contracts. For more information on certain of
these transactions, see Note 5 to the financial statements of GULF in Item 8
herein.

    ALABAMA and GEORGIA have numerous contracts covering a portion of their
nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services and
fuel fabrication. These contracts have varying expiration dates and most are
short to medium term (less than 10 years). Management believes that sufficient
capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the
impairment of normal operations of the SOUTHERN system's nuclear generating
units.

    ALABAMA and GEORGIA have contracts with the DOE that provide for the
permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Although disposal was scheduled to
begin in 1998, the actual year this service will begin is uncertain. Sufficient
storage capacity currently is available to permit operation into 2003 at Plant
Hatch, into 2008 at Plant Vogtle, and into 2010 and 2013 at Plant Farley units 1
and 2, respectively. Activities for adding dry cask storage capacity at Plant
Hatch by as early as 1999 are in progress.

    The Energy Act imposed upon utilities with nuclear plants, including ALABAMA
and GEORGIA, obligations for the decontamination and decommissioning of federal
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. See Note 1 to SOUTHERN's, ALABAMA's and
GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein.

Territory Served By Operating Affiliates

The territory in which the operating affiliates provide electric service
comprises most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the
northwestern portion of Florida and southeastern Mississippi. In this territory
there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems which obtain some or all
of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the operating
affiliates. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles and
an estimated population of approximately 11 million.

    ALABAMA is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and
purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such electricity at
retail in over 1,000 communities (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden,


                                      I-8



Mobile, Montgomery and Tuscaloosa) and at wholesale to 15 municipally-owned
electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly through sales
to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. ALABAMA also
supplies steam service in downtown Birmingham. ALABAMA owns coal reserves near
its steam-electric generating plant at Gorgas and uses the output of coal from
these reserves in some of its generating plants. ALABAMA also sells, and
cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

    GEORGIA is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the
distribution and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia at retail
in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon,
Rome and Valdosta), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to 39
electric cooperative associations through a power supply arrangement with OPC, a
corporate cooperative of electric membership cooperatives in Georgia, and to 50
municipalities, 48 of which are served through a power supply arrangement with
MEAG, a public corporation and an instrumentality of the State of Georgia.

    GULF is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the
generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such
electricity at retail in 71 communities (including Pensacola, Panama City and
Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to a
non-affiliated utility and a municipality. GULF also sells electric appliances.

    MISSISSIPPI is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the
distribution and sale of such energy within the 23 counties of southeastern
Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport,
Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at
wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution cooperative
associations and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

    SAVANNAH is engaged, within a five-county area in eastern Georgia, in the
generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such
electricity at retail and, as a member of the SOUTHERN system power pool, the
transmission and sale of wholesale energy.

    For information relating to kilowatt-hour sales by classification for each
registrant, reference is made to "Management's Discussion and Analysis-Revenues"
in Item 7 herein. Also, for information relating to the sources of revenues for
the Southern system and each of the operating affiliates, reference is made to
Item 6 herein.

    A portion of the area served by SOUTHERN's operating affiliates adjoins the
area served by TVA and its municipal and cooperative distributors. An Act of
Congress limits the distribution of TVA power, unless otherwise authorized by
Congress, to specified areas or customers which generally were those served on
July 1, 1957.

    The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or
corporations to enable them to provide electric service to customers in rural
sections of the country. There are 71 electric cooperative organizations
operating in the territory in which the operating affiliates provide electric
service at retail or wholesale.

    One of these, AEC, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling
power to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems and other
customers in south Alabama and northwest Florida. AEC owns generating units with
approximately 840 megawatts of nameplate capacity, including an undivided
ownership interest in ALABAMA's Plant Miller Units 1 and 2. AEC's facilities
were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts requiring
distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from AEC to the extent such
energy is available. Two of the 14 distributing cooperatives operating in
ALABAMA's service territory obtain a portion of their power requirements
directly from ALABAMA.

    Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within
GULF's service area. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from
AEC and SEPA. A non-affiliated utility also operates within GULF's service area
and purchases a portion of its requirements from GULF.

    ALABAMA and GULF have entered into separate agreements with AEC involving
interconnection between the respective systems and, in the case of ALABAMA, the
delivery of capacity and energy from AEC to certain distributing cooperatives.


                                      I-9



The rates for the various services provided by ALABAMA and GULF to AEC are based
on formulary approaches which result in the charges by each company being
updated annually, subject to FERC approval. See Item 2 - PROPERTIES -
"Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein for details of ALABAMA's joint-ownership with
AEC of a portion of Plant Miller.

    Another of the 71 electric cooperatives is SMEPA, also a generating and
transmitting cooperative. SMEPA has a generating capacity of 739,000 kilowatts
and a transmission system estimated to be 1,357 miles in length. MISSISSIPPI has
an interchange agreement with SMEPA pursuant to which various services are
provided, including the furnishing of protective capacity by MISSISSIPPI to
SMEPA.

    There are 43 electric cooperative organizations operating in, or in areas
adjoining, territory in the State of Georgia in which GEORGIA provides electric
service at retail or wholesale. Three of these organizations obtain their power
from TVA and one from other sources. Since July 1, 1975, OPC has supplied the
requirements of the remaining 39 of these cooperative organizations from
self-owned generation acquired from GEORGIA and, until September 1991, through
partial requirements purchases from GEORGIA. GEORGIA entered into an agreement
with OPC pursuant to which, effective in September 1991, OPC ceased to be a
partial requirements wholesale customer of GEORGIA. Instead, OPC began the
purchase of 1,250 megawatts of capacity from GEORGIA through 1999, subject to
reduction or extension by OPC, and may satisfy the balance of its needs through
purchases from others. OPC decreased its purchases of capacity by 250 megawatts
each in September 1996 and 1997 and has notified GEORGIA of its intent to
decrease purchases of capacity by an additional 250 megawatts in September 1998
and 1999. Under the amended 1995 Integrated Resource Plan approved by the
Georgia PSC in March 1997, the resources associated with the decreased purchases
in 1996, 1997 and 1998 will be used to meet the needs of GEORGIA's retail
customers through 2004.

    There are 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in
the territory in which SOUTHERN's operating affiliates provide electric service
at retail or wholesale.

    AMEA was organized under an act of the Alabama legislature and is comprised
of 11 municipalities. In 1986, ALABAMA entered into a firm power purchase
contract with AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of capacity (to a maximum
of 100 megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing September 1, 1986. In
October 1991, ALABAMA entered into a second firm power purchase contract with
AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of additional capacity (to a maximum 80
megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing October 1, 1991. In both
contracts the power will be sold to AMEA for its member municipalities that
previously were served directly by ALABAMA as wholesale customers. Under the
terms of the contracts, ALABAMA received payments from AMEA representing the net
present value of the revenues associated with the respective capacity
entitlements. See Note 7 to ALABAMA's financial statements in Item 8 herein for
further information on these contracts.

    Forty-seven municipally-owned electric distribution systems and one
county-owned system receive their requirements through MEAG, which was
established by a state statute in 1975. MEAG serves these requirements from
self-owned generation facilities acquired from GEORGIA and purchases from
others. In August 1997, a new power supply contract was implemented between
GEORGIA and MEAG that replaced the partial requirements tariff pursuant to which
GEORGIA previously sold wholesale energy to MEAG. Since 1977 Dalton has filled
its requirements from generation facilities acquired from GEORGIA and through
partial requirements purchases. One municipally-owned electric distribution
system's full requirements are served under a market-based contract by GEORGIA.
(See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.)

    GULF and MISSISSIPPI provide wholesale requirements for one municipal system
each.

    GEORGIA has entered into substantially similar agreements with Georgia
Transmission Corporation (formerly OPC's transmission division), MEAG and Dalton
providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission system to carry
the power and energy of each. The agreements require an investment by each party
in the integrated transmission system in proportion to its respective share of
the aggregate system load. (See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities"
herein.)


                                      I-10



    SCS, acting on behalf of ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH,
also has a contract with SEPA (a federal power marketing agency) providing for
the use of those companies' facilities at government expense to deliver to
certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to
preference in the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to
the amounts of power allocated to them by SEPA from certain United States
Government hydroelectric projects.

    The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia
are regulated by the 1973 State Territorial Electric Service Act. Pursuant to
the provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal limits were
assigned to the primary electric supplier therein on March 29, 1973 (451
municipalities, including Atlanta, Columbus, Macon, Augusta, Athens, Rome and
Valdosta, to GEORGIA; 115 to electric cooperatives; and 50 to publicly-owned
systems). Areas outside of such municipal limits were either to be assigned or
to be declared open for customer choice of supplier by action of the Georgia PSC
pursuant to standards set forth in the Act. Consistent with such standards, the
Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a
supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, the Act provides that any new
customer locating outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load
of at least 900 kilowatts may receive electric service from the supplier of its
choice. (See also Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Competition" herein.)

    Under and subject to the provisions of its franchises and concessions and
the 1973 State Territorial Electric Service Act, SAVANNAH has the full but
nonexclusive right to serve the City of Savannah, the Towns of Bloomingdale,
Pooler, Garden City, Guyton, Newington, Oliver, Port Wentworth, Rincon, Tybee
Island, Springfield, Thunderbolt, Vernonburg, and in conjunction with a
secondary supplier, the Town of Richmond Hill. In addition, SAVANNAH has been
assigned certain unincorporated areas in Chatham, Effingham, Bryan, Bulloch and
Screven Counties by the Georgia PSC. (See also Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Competition"
herein.)

    Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued "Grandfather
Certificates" of public convenience and necessity to MISSISSIPPI and to six
distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then
served in whole or in part by MISSISSIPPI, authorizing them to distribute
electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state.
The six cooperatives serve approximately 300,000 retail customers in a
certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a
"Grandfather Certificate," the utility holding such certificate may, without
further certification, extend its lines up to five miles; other extensions
within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except
upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and
necessity. Areas included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed
to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the certificate,
irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing municipality. On the
other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into
such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.

Long-Term Power Sales Agreements

Reference is made to Note 7 to the financial statements for SOUTHERN, ALABAMA,
GEORGIA, GULF and MISSISSIPPI in Item 8 herein for information regarding
contracts for the sales of capacity and energy to non-territorial customers.

Competition

   The electric utility industry in the United States is currently undergoing a
period of dramatic change as a result of regulatory and competitive factors.
Among the primary agents of change has been the Energy Policy Act of 1992
(Energy Act). The Energy Act allows independent power producers (IPPs) to access
a utility's transmission network in order to sell electricity to other
utilities. This enhances the incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for
a utility's large industrial and commercial customers, and sell energy
generation to other utilities. Also, electricity sales for resale rates are
being driven down by wholesale transmission access and numerous potential new
energy suppliers, including power marketers and brokers. SOUTHERN is



                                      I-11


aggressively working to maintain and expand its share of wholesale sales in the
Southeastern power markets.

   Although the Energy Act does not permit retail customer access, it was a
major catalyst for the current restructuring and consolidation taking place
within the utility industry. Numerous federal and state initiatives are in
varying stages to promote wholesale and retail competition. Among other things,
these initiatives allow customers to choose their electricity provider. As these
initiatives materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically
change. Some states have approved initiatives that result in a separation of the
ownership and/or operation of generating facilities from the ownership and/or
operation of transmission and distribution facilities. While various
restructuring and competition initiatives have been or are being discussed in
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi, none have been enacted to date.
Enactment would require numerous issues to be resolved, including significant
ones relating to transmission pricing and recovery of any stranded investments.
The inability of an operating company to recover its investments, including the
regulatory assets described in Note 1 to each registrant's respective financial
statements, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of
that operating company. The operating companies are attempting to minimize or
reduce their cost exposure. Reference is made to Note 3 to the financial
statements for SOUTHERN for information regarding these efforts.

     Continuing to be a low-cost producer could provide opportunities to
increase market share and profitability in markets that evolve with changing
regulation. Conversely, unless SOUTHERN remains a low-cost producer and provides
quality service, the company's retail energy sales growth could be limited, and
this could significantly erode earnings. Reference is made to each registrant's
"Management's Discussion and Analysis - Future Earnings Potential" in Item 7
herein for further discussion of competition.

    In order to adapt to a less regulated, more competitive environment,
SOUTHERN continues to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential business
strategies. These strategies may include business combinations, acquisitions
involving other utility or non-utility businesses or properties, internal
restructuring, disposition of certain assets, or some combination thereof.
Furthermore, SOUTHERN may engage in other new business ventures that arise from
competitive and regulatory changes in the utility industry. Pursuit of any of
the above strategies, or any combination thereof, may significantly affect the
business operations and financial condition of SOUTHERN. (See Item 1 - BUSINESS
- - "Non-Traditional Business" herein.)

    As a result of the foregoing factors, SOUTHERN has experienced increasing
competition for available off-system sales of capacity and energy from
neighboring utilities and alternative sources of energy. Additionally, the
future effect of cogeneration and small-power production facilities on the
SOUTHERN system cannot currently be determined but may be adverse.

    ALABAMA currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with nine industrial
customers. Under the terms of these contracts, ALABAMA purchases excess
generation of such companies. During 1997, ALABAMA purchased approximately 57
million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $1.0 million.

    GEORGIA currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with six industrial
customers. Under the terms of these contracts, GEORGIA purchases excess
generation of such companies. During 1997, GEORGIA purchased 5.3 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $117,304. GEORGIA has entered
into a 30-year purchase power agreement, scheduled to begin in June 1998, for
electricity from a 300-megawatt cogeneration facility. Payments are subject to
reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity output. Reference is made to
Note 4 to the financial statements for GEORGIA in Item 8 herein for information
regarding purchase power commitments.

    GULF currently has cogeneration agreements for "as available" energy in
effect with two industrial customers. During 1997, GULF purchased 98 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies for $2 million.

     MISSISSIPPI entered into agreements to purchase options for summer peaking
power for the years 1997 through 2000. Also, the Company has purchased options
from power marketers. Reference is made to Note 5 to the financial statements
for MISSISSIPPI in Item 8 herein for information regarding fuel and purchased
power commitments.


                                      I-12


    SAVANNAH currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with five industrial
customers. Under the terms of these contracts, SAVANNAH purchases excess
generation of such companies. During 1997, SAVANNAH purchased 1 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $19,000.

    The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy
is influenced by various factors, including price, availability, technological
advancements and reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among
other influences, regulatory, political and environmental considerations,
taxation and supply.

     The operating affiliates have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in
varying degrees as the result of self-generation (as described above) and fuel
switching by customers and other factors. (See also Item 1 - BUSINESS -
"Territory Served By Operating Affiliates" herein for information concerning
suppliers of electricity operating within or near the areas served at retail by
the operating affiliates.)

Regulation

State Commissions

The operating affiliates and SEGCO are subject to the jurisdiction of their
respective state regulatory commissions, which have broad powers of supervision
and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states,
including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the
Mississippi PSC) and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and Mississippi PSC, in
part, retail service territories. (See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Rate Matters" and
"Territory Served By Operating Affiliates" herein.)

Holding Company Act

SOUTHERN is registered as a holding company under the Holding Company Act, and
it and its subsidiary companies are subject to the regulatory provisions of said
Act, including provisions relating to the issuance of securities, sales and
acquisitions of securities and utility assets, services performed by SCS and
Southern Nuclear, and the activities of certain of SOUTHERN's special purpose
subsidiaries.

    While various proposals have been introduced in Congress regarding the
Holding Company Act, the prospects for legislative reform or repeal are
uncertain at this time.

Federal Power Act

The Federal Power Act subjects the operating affiliates and SEGCO to regulation
by the FERC as companies engaged in the transmission or sale at wholesale of
electric energy in interstate commerce, including regulation of accounting
policies and practices.

    Reference is made to Note 3 to each registrant's financial statements
(except SAVANNAH) in Item 8 herein for further information regarding FERC
reviews of equity returns.

    ALABAMA and GEORGIA are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power
Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect
to their hydroelectric developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to
licensing by the FERC are 14 existing ALABAMA generating stations having an
aggregate installed capacity of 1,582,725 kilowatts and 18 existing GEORGIA
generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,074,696
kilowatts.

    GEORGIA filed, in September, 1996, with the FERC, a notice of its intent to
seek a new license for the Flint River Project. GEORGIA must file a new license
by September 1999.

    GEORGIA and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky
Mountain Plant, a pure pumped storage facility of 847,800 kilowatt capacity
which began commercial operation in 1995. (See Item 2 - PROPERTIES -
"Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein and Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and GEORGIA's
financial statements in Item 8 herein for additional information.)

    Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the
period 2007-2023 in the case of ALABAMA's projects and in the period 2005-2036
in the case of GEORGIA's projects.

                                      I-13


    Upon or after the expiration of each license, the United States Government,
by act of Congress, may take over the project, or the FERC may relicense the
project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee. In the event of
takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be compensated
in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to
reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the
fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to other property of
the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the property taken.

Atomic Energy Act of 1954

ALABAMA, GEORGIA and Southern Nuclear are subject to the provisions of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, which vests jurisdiction in the NRC over
the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, particularly with regard to
certain public health and safety and antitrust matters. The National
Environmental Policy Act has been construed to expand the jurisdiction of the
NRC to consider the environmental impact of a facility licensed under the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954, as amended.

    Reference is made to Notes 1 and 13 to SOUTHERN's, Notes 1 and 12 to
ALABAMA's and Notes 1 and 5 to GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein
for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.
Additionally, Note 3 to GEORGIA's financial statements contains information
regarding nuclear performance standards imposed by the Georgia PSC that may
impact retail rates.

Environmental Regulation

The operating affiliates and SEGCO are subject to federal, state and local
environmental requirements which, among other things, control emissions of
particulates, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into the air; the use,
transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic waste; and
discharges of pollutants, including thermal discharges, into waters of the
United States. The operating affiliates and SEGCO expect to comply with such
requirements, which generally are becoming increasingly stringent, through
technical improvements, the use of appropriate combinations of low-sulfur fuel
and chemicals, addition of environmental control facilities, changes in control
techniques and reduction of the operating levels of generating facilities.
Failure to comply with such requirements could result in the complete shutdown
of individual facilities not in compliance as well as the imposition of civil
and criminal penalties.

    Reference is made to each registrant's "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" in Item 7 herein for a discussion of the Clean Air Act and other
environmental legislation and proceedings.

    Possible adverse health effects of EMFs from various
sources, including transmission and distribution lines, have been the subject of
a number of studies and increasing public discussion. The scientific research
currently is inconclusive as to whether EMFs may cause adverse health effects.
However, there is the possibility of passage of legislation and promulgation of
rulemaking that would require measures to mitigate EMFs, with resulting
increases in capital and operating costs. In addition, the potential exists for
public liability with respect to lawsuits brought by plaintiffs alleging damages
caused by EMFs.

    The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's estimated capital expenditures for 
environmental quality control facilities for the years 1998, 1999 and 2000 are 
as follows:  (in millions)

   ---------------- -- ------------ ------------ -----------
                          1998          1999          2000
                       ------------ ------------ -----------
   ALABAMA               $18.3         $63.8        $19.6
   GEORGIA                13.0          14.0          1.0
   GULF                    9.3           1.9          0.1
   MISSISSIPPI            15.0           6.0          -
   SAVANNAH                -             -            -
   SEGCO                   0.7           7.6          0.5
                       ------------ ------------ -----------
     SOUTHERN
       system            $56.3         $93.3         $21.2
   ================ == ============ ============ ===========

    *The foregoing estimates are included in the current construction programs.
(See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Construction Programs" herein.)

    Additionally, each operating affiliate and SEGCO have incurred costs for
environmental remediation of various sites. Reference is made to each
registrant's "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in Item 7 herein for
information regarding the registrants' environmental remediation efforts. Also,
see Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein for

                                      I-14



information regarding the identification of sites that may require environmental
remediation by GEORGIA and Note 3 to MISSISSIPPI's financial statements in Item
8 herein for information regarding a site that may require environmental
remediation by MISSISSIPPI.

    The operating affiliates and SEGCO are unable to predict at this time what
additional steps they may be required to take as a result of the implementation
of existing or future quality control requirements for air, water and hazardous
or toxic materials, but such steps could adversely affect system operations and
result in substantial additional costs.

    The outcome of the matters mentioned above under "Regulation" cannot now be
determined, except that these developments may result in delays in obtaining
appropriate licenses for generating facilities, increased construction and
operating costs, or reduced generation, the nature and extent of which, while
not determinable at this time, could be substantial.

Rate Matters

Rate Structure

The rates and service regulations of the operating affiliates are uniform for
each class of service throughout their respective service areas. Rates for
residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon
kilowatt-hours used and include minimum charges.

    Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for
commercial service are presently of the block type and, for large customers, the
billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill charges.
These large customers' rates are generally based upon usage by the customer
including those with special features to encourage off-peak usage. Additionally,
the operating affiliates are allowed by their respective PSCs to negotiate the
terms and compensation of service to large customers. Such terms and
compensation of service, however, are subject to final PSC approval. ALABAMA and
GEORGIA are allowed by state law to recover fuel and net purchased energy costs
through fuel cost recovery provisions which are adjusted to reflect increases or
decreases in such costs. GULF and SAVANNAH recover from retail customers fuel
and net purchased power costs through provisions which are adjusted to reflect
increases or decreases in such costs. GULF's recovery of fuel costs is based
upon a projection for six-months - any over/under recovery during such period is
reflected in a subsequent six-month period with interest. GULF's recovery of
purchased power capacity costs is based upon an annual projection - any
over/under recovery during such period is reflected in a subsequent annual
period with interest. With respect to MISSISSIPPI's retail rates, fuel and
purchased power costs above base levels included in the various rate schedules
are billed to such customers under the fuel and energy adjustment clause. The
adjustment factors for MISSISSIPPI's retail and wholesale rates are generally
levelized based on the estimated energy cost for the year, adjusted for any
actual over/under collection from the previous year. However, in January 1998,
MISSISSIPPI received approval from the MPSC to change its Fuel Adjustment Clause
and to levelize and fix its Fuel Adjustment Factors for January 1998 through
December 2000. Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel
costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates.

Rate Proceedings

Reference is made to Note 3 to each registrant's financial statements in Item 8
herein for a discussion of rate matters. For each registrant (except SAVANNAH),
such Note 3 includes a discussion of proceedings initiated by the FERC
concerning the reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate
schedules and contracts that have a return on equity of 13.75% or greater.

    For information regarding GEORGIA's Rocky Mountain Plant, including a joint
ownership agreement with OPC and a January 14, 1998, GPSC order relating to the
recovery of GEORGIA's costs in this plant, reference is made to Note 3 to
SOUTHERN's and to GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein.

Integrated Resource Planning

In 1991, the Georgia legislature passed certain legislation under which both
GEORGIA and SAVANNAH must file Integrated Resource Plans for approval by the
Georgia PSC. The plans must specify how GEORGIA and SAVANNAH each intends to

                                     I-15


meet the future electrical needs of their customers through a combination of
demand-side and supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC must pre-certify these
new resources. Once certified, all prudently incurred construction costs and
purchased power costs will be recoverable through rates.

    By orders issued in 1992 and by amended orders issued in 1995, the Georgia
PSC approved Integrated Resource Plans for both GEORGIA and SAVANNAH.

    In March 1997, the Georgia PSC approved amendments to GEORGIA's 1995
Integrated Resource Plan. Pursuant to the amended plan, the Georgia PSC
certified a five-year purchase power agreement scheduled to begin in June 2000
for approximately 215 megawatts. Capacity and fixed operation and maintenance
payments over the five-year period are estimated to be approximately $39
million.

    The Florida PSC set conservation goals and approved programs to accomplish
the goals beginning in 1995. The goals require conservation programs which
reduce 154 megawatts of summer peak demand and 65 million kilowatt-hours of
sales by the year 2004. For additional information, reference is made to GULF's
"Management's Discussion and Analysis - Future Earnings Potential" in Item 7
herein.

Environmental Cost Recovery Plans

GULF and MISSISSIPPI both have retail rate mechanisms that provide for recovery
of environmental compliance costs. For a description of these plans, see Note 3
to GULF's and MISSISSIPPI's financial statements in Item 8 herein.


Employee Relations

The companies of the SOUTHERN system had a total of 30,756 employees on their
payrolls at December 31, 1997.

   ------------------------------ --- -------------------------
                                             Employees
                                                 at
                                         December 31, 1997
                                      -------------------------
   ALABAMA                                        6,531
   GEORGIA                                        8,354
   GULF                                           1,328
   MISSISSIPPI                                    1,245
   SAVANNAH                                         535
   SCS                                            3,222
   Southern Energy*                               6,089  
   Southern Nuclear                               3,070  
   Other                                            382
   ------------------------------ --- -------------------------
   Total                                         30,756
   ============================== === =========================
*Includes 5,709 employees on international payrolls.

    The operating affiliates have separate agreements with local unions of the
IBEW generally covering wages, working conditions and procedures for handling
grievances and arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to
operating, maintenance and construction employees.

    ALABAMA has agreements with the IBEW on a three-year contract extending to
August 15, 1998. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date,
negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective
after such date.

    GEORGIA has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working
conditions, which is in effect through June 30, 1999.

    GULF has an agreement with the IBEW on a three-year contract extending to
August 15, 1998. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date,
negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective
after such date.

    MISSISSIPPI has an agreement with the IBEW on a three-year contract
extending to August 16, 1998. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that
date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be
effective after such date.


                                      I-16


    SAVANNAH has three-year labor agreements with the IBEW and the Office and
Professional Employees International Union that expire April 16, 1999 and
December 1, 1999, respectively.

    Southern Energy has a 5-year labor agreement with the IBEW extending to
October 31, 2002, and the United Paperworkers International Union extending to
June 1, 2002, covering employees of Mobile Energy. At its State Line facility in
Hammond, Indiana, Southern Energy has a labor contract with the United Steel
Workers that extends to January 1, 2004.

    Southern Nuclear has agreements with the IBEW on separate three-year
contracts extending to August 15, 1998 for Plant Farley and to July 1, 1999 for
Plants Hatch and Vogtle. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to these
dates, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be
effective after such dates.

    Southern Nuclear also has an agreement with the United Plant Guard Workers
of America for security officers at Plant Hatch extending to September 3, 1998.
Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date, negotiations may be
initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective after such date.

    The agreements also subject the terms of the pension plans for the companies
discussed above to collective bargaining with the unions at five-year intervals.


                                      I-17




Item 2.  PROPERTIES

Electric Properties

The operating affiliates and SEGCO, at December 31, 1997, operated 33
hydroelectric generating stations, 32 fossil fuel generating stations and three
nuclear generating stations. The amounts of capacity owned by each company are
shown in the table below.


   ----------------------- -------------------------------------
                                                  Nameplate
   Generating Station      Location              Capacity (1)
   ----------------------- ------------------- -----------------
                                                 (Kilowatts)
   Fossil Steam
   Gadsden                 Gadsden, AL             120,000
   Gorgas                  Jasper, AL            1,221,250
   Barry                   Mobile, AL            1,525,000
   Chickasaw               Chickasaw, AL            40,000
   Greene County           Demopolis, AL           300,000 (2)
   Gaston Unit 5           Wilsonville, AL         880,000
   Miller                  Birmingham, AL        2,532,288 (3)
                                                 ---------
   ALABAMA Total                                 6,618,538
                                                 ---------

   Arkwright               Macon, GA                160,000
   Atkinson                Atlanta, GA              180,000
   Bowen                   Cartersville, GA       3,160,000
   Branch                  Milledgeville, GA      1,539,700
   Hammond                 Rome, GA                 800,000
   McDonough               Atlanta, GA              490,000
   McManus                 Brunswick, GA            115,000
   Mitchell                Albany, GA               170,000
   Scherer                 Macon, GA                750,924 (4)
   Wansley                 Carrollton, GA           925,550 (5)
   Yates                   Newnan, GA             1,250,000
                                                  ---------
   GEORGIA Total                                  9,541,174
                                                  ---------

   Crist                   Pensacola, FL          1,045,000
   Lansing Smith           Panama City, FL          305,000
   Scholz                  Chattahoochee, FL         80,000
   Daniel                  Pascagoula, MS           500,000 (6)
   Scherer Unit 3          Macon, GA                204,500 (4)
                                                -----------
   GULF Total                                     2,134,500
                                                  ---------

   Eaton                   Hattiesburg, MS           67,500
   Sweatt                  Meridian, MS              80,000
   Watson                  Gulfport, MS           1,012,000
   Daniel                  Pascagoula, MS           500,000 (6)
   Greene County           Demopolis, AL            200,000 (2)
                                                -----------
   MISSISSIPPI Total                              1,859,500
                                                -----------

  

   ----------------------- -----------------------------------------
                                                      Nameplate
   Generating Station   Location                       Capacity
   -------------------- ------------------------- ------------------
                                                     (Kilowatts)
   McIntosh             Effingham County, GA           163,117
   Kraft                Port Wentworth, GA             281,136
   Riverside            Savannah, GA                   102,278
                                                   -----------
   SAVANNAH Total                                      546,531
                                                   -----------

   Gaston Units 1-4     Wilsonville, AL
   SEGCO Total                                       1,000,000 (7)
                                                   -----------
   Total Fossil Steam                               21,700,243
                                                   -----------

   Nuclear Steam
   Farley               Dothan, AL
   ALABAMA Total                                     1,720,000
                                                   -----------
   Hatch                Baxley, GA                     862,669 (8)
   Vogtle               Augusta, GA                  1,060,240 (9)
                                                   -----------
   GEORGIA Total                                     1,922,909
                                                    ----------
   Total Nuclear Steam                               3,642,909
                                                   -----------

   Combustion Turbines
   Greene County        Demopolis, AL
   ALABAMA Total                                       720,000
                                                   -----------
   Arkwright            Macon, GA                       30,580
   Atkinson             Atlanta, GA                     78,720
   Bowen                Cartersville, GA                39,400
   Intercession City    Intercession City, FL           47,333 (10)
   McDonough            Atlanta, GA                     78,800
   McIntosh
     Units 1,2,3,4,7,8  Effingham County, GA           480,000
   McManus              Brunswick, GA                  481,700
   Mitchell             Albany, GA                     118,200
   Robins               Warner Robins, GA              160,000
   Wilson               Augusta, GA                    354,100
   Wansley              Carrollton, GA                  26,322 (5)
                                                   -----------
   GEORGIA Total                                     1,895,155
                                                     ---------

   Lansing Smith
     Unit A (GULF)      Panama City, FL                 39,400

   Chevron Cogenerating
     Station            Pascagoula, MS                 147,292 (11)
   Sweatt               Meridian, MS                    39,400
   Watson               Gulfport, MS                    39,360
                                                     ---------
   MISSISSIPPI Total                                   226,052
                                                     ---------

   Boulevard            Savannah, GA                    59,100
   Kraft                Port Wentworth, GA              22,000
   McIntosh
     Units 5&6          Effingham County, GA           160,000
   SAVANNAH Total                                      241,100

   ----------------------------------------------- -----------------
                                      I-18




   ------------------------- -------------------- -----------------
                                                    Nameplate
   Generating Station        Location                 Capacity
   ------------------------- -------------------- -----------------
                                                    (Kilowatts)

   Gaston (SEGCO)            Wilsonville, AL           19,680 (7)
   Total Combustion Turbines                        3,141,387

   Hydroelectric Facilities
   Weiss                     Leesburg, AL              87,750
   Henry                     Ohatchee, AL              72,900
   Logan Martin              Vincent, AL              128,250
   Lay                       Clanton, AL              177,000
   Mitchell                  Verbena, AL              170,000
   Jordan                    Wetumpka, AL             100,000
   Bouldin                   Wetumpka, AL             225,000
   Harris                    Wedowee, AL              135,000
   Martin                    Dadeville, AL            154,200
   Yates                     Tallassee, AL             32,000
   Thurlow                   Tallassee, AL             58,000
   Lewis Smith               Jasper, AL               157,500
   Bankhead                  Holt, AL                  45,125
   Holt                      Holt, AL                  40,000
                                                  -----------
   ALABAMA Total                                    1,582,725
                                                   ----------

   Barnett Shoals
     (Leased)                Athens, GA                 2,800
   Bartletts Ferry           Columbus, GA             173,000
   Goat Rock                 Columbus, GA              26,000
   Lloyd Shoals              Jackson, GA               14,400
   Morgan Falls              Atlanta, GA               16,800
   North Highlands           Columbus, GA              29,600
   Oliver Dam                Columbus, GA              60,000
   Rocky Mountain            Rome, GA                 215,256 (12)
   Sinclair Dam              Milledgeville, GA         45,000
   Tallulah Falls            Clayton, GA               72,000
   Terrora                   Clayton, GA               16,000
   Tugalo                    Clayton, GA               45,000
   Wallace Dam               Eatonton, GA             321,300
   Yonah                     Toccoa, GA                22,500
   6 Other Plants                                      18,080
                                                  -----------
   GEORGIA Total                                    1,077,736
                                                   ----------
   Total Hydroelectric Facilities                   2,660,461
                                                  -----------

   Total Generating Capacity                       31,145,000

   ---------------------------------------------- -----------------

Notes:
    (1)  For additional information regarding facilities jointly-owned with 
         non-affiliated parties, see Item 2 - PROPERTIES -
         "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.
    (2)  Owned by ALABAMA and MISSISSIPPI as
         tenants in common in the proportions of 60% and 40%, respectively.
    (3)  Excludes the capacity owned by AEC.
    (4)  Capacity shown for GEORGIA is 8.4% of Units 1 and 2 and 75% of Unit 3.
         Capacity shown for GULF is 25% of Unit 3.
    (5)  Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (53.5%) of total plant capacity.
    (6)  Represents 50% of the plant which is owned as tenants in common by 
         GULF and MISSISSIPPI.
    (7)  SEGCO is jointly-owned by ALABAMA and GEORGIA.  (See Item 1 - BUSINESS
         herein.)
    (8)  Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (50.1%) of total plant capacity.
    (9)  Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (45.7%) of total plant capacity.
   (10)  Capacity shown represents 33-1/3% of total plant capacity.  GEORGIA 
         owns a 1/3 interest in the unit with 100% use of the
         unit from June through September.  FPC operates the unit.
   (11)  Generation is dedicated to a single industrial customer.
   (12)  Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (25.4%) of total plant capacity. 
         OPC operates the plant.

    Except as discussed below under "Titles to Property," the principal plants
and other important units of the operating affiliates and SEGCO are owned in fee
by the respective companies. It is the opinion of management of each such
company that its operating properties are adequately maintained and are
substantially in good operating condition.

    MISSISSIPPI owns a 79-mile length of 500-kilovolt transmission line which is
leased to Entergy Gulf States. The line, completed in 1984, extends from Plant
Daniel to the Louisiana state line. Entergy Gulf States is paying a use fee over
a forty-year period covering all expenses and the amortization of the original
$57 million cost of the line. At December 31, 1997, the unamortized portion of
this cost was $38 million.

    The all-time maximum demand on the operating affiliates and SEGCO was
27,419,700 kilowatts and occurred in August 1995. This amount excludes demand
served by capacity retained by MEAG and Dalton and excludes demand associated
with power purchased from OPC and SEPA by its preference customers. At that
time, 29,596,100 kilowatts were supplied by SOUTHERN system generation and
2,176,400 kilowatts (net) were sold to other parties through net purchased and
interchanged power. The reserve margin for the operating affiliates and SEGCO at

                                      I-19


that time was 9.4%. For additional information on peak demands, reference is
made to Item 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA herein.

    ALABAMA and GEORGIA will incur significant costs in decommissioning their
nuclear units at the end of their useful lives. (See Item 1 - BUSINESS
"Regulation - Atomic Energy Act of 1954" and Note 1 to SOUTHERN's, ALABAMA's and
GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein.)


Other Electric Generation Facilities

Through special purpose subsidiaries, SOUTHERN owns interests in or operates
independent power production facilities and foreign utility companies. The
generating capacity of these utilities (or facilities) at December 31, 1997, was
as follows:


                                      I-20




Jointly-Owned Facilities

ALABAMA and GEORGIA have sold and GEORGIA has purchased undivided interests in
certain generating plants and other related facilities to or from non-affiliated
parties. The percentages of ownership resulting from these transactions are as
follows:




    ALABAMA and GEORGIA have contracted to operate and maintain the respective
units in which each has an interest (other than Rocky Mountain and Intercession
City, as described below) as agent for the joint owners.

    In connection with the joint ownership arrangements for Plant Vogtle,
GEORGIA made commitments to purchase portions of OPC's and MEAG's capacity and
energy from this plant. Declining commitments were in effect during periods of
up to seven years following commercial operation and ended in 1996. In addition,
the Company has commitments regarding a portion of a 5 percent interest in Plant
Vogtle owned by MEAG that are in effect until the later of retirement of the
plant or the latest stated maturity date of MEAG's bonds issued to finance such
ownership interest. The payments for capacity are required whether any capacity
is available. The energy cost is a function of each unit's variable operating
costs. Except for the portion of the capacity payments related to the 1987 and
1990 write-offs of Plant Vogtle costs, the cost of such capacity and energy is
included in purchased power from non-affiliates in GEORGIA's Statements of
Income in Item 8 herein.

    In December 1988, GEORGIA and OPC entered into a joint ownership agreement
for the Rocky Mountain plant under which GEORGIA agreed to retain its present
investment in the project and OPC agreed to finance, complete and operate the
facility. In 1995, the plant went into commercial operation. GEORGIA's ownership
is 25.4 percent. On January 14, 1998, the GPSC ordered that the Company be
allowed approximately $108 million of its $143 million investment in the plant
in rate base as of December 31, 1998. GEORGIA has appealed the GPSC's order. If

                                      I-21



such order is ultimately upheld, GEORGIA will be required to record a charge to
earnings currently estimated at approximately $29 million, after taxes.
Reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and GEORGIA's financial statements in
Item 8 herein for additional information regarding the Rocky Mountain plant.

    In 1994, GEORGIA and FPC entered into a joint ownership agreement regarding
the Intercession City combustion turbine unit. The unit began commercial
operation in January 1997, and is operated by FPC. GEORGIA owns a one-third
interest in the unit, with use of 100% of the capacity from June through
September. FPC has the capacity the remainder of the year.

Sale of Property

Reference is made to Note 6 to GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein
for information regarding the sale completed in 1995 of GEORGIA's remaining
ownership interest in Plant Scherer Unit 4.

Titles to Property

The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's interests in the principal plants (other
than certain pollution control facilities, one small hydroelectric generating
station leased by GEORGIA and the land on which five combustion turbine
generators of MISSISSIPPI are located, which is held by easement) and other
important units of the respective companies are owned in fee by such companies,
subject only to the liens of applicable mortgage indentures (except for SEGCO)
and to excepted encumbrances as defined therein. The operating affiliates own
the fee interests in certain of their principal plants as tenants in common.
(See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.) Properties such
as electric transmission and distribution lines and steam heating mains are
constructed principally on rights-of-way which are maintained under franchise or
are held by easement only. A substantial portion of lands submerged by
reservoirs is held under flood right easements. In substantially all of its coal
reserve lands, SEGCO owns or will own the coal only, with adequate rights for
the mining and removal thereof.

Property Additions and Retirements

During the period from January 1, 1993 to December 31, 1997, the operating
affiliates, SEGCO, SCS, Southern Nuclear, Southern Communications and Southern
Energy recorded gross property additions and retirements as follows:

   ----------------------- ------------------- --- ----------
                           Gross Property
                               Additions        Retirements
                           ---------------      -------------
                                     (in millions)
   ALABAMA                       $2,402            $   415
   GEORGIA (1)                    2,697              1,534
   GULF                             336                138
   MISSISSIPPI                      428                 91
   SAVANNAH                         178                 17
   SEGCO                             29                  8
   SCS                               99                131
   Southern Nuclear                   6                  7
   Southern
      Communications                246                  -
   Southern Energy                1,039                 38
   Other                              6                  -
   ==========================================================
   SOUTHERN system               $7,466             $2,379
   ==========================================================

Notes:
 (1)    Includes approximately $446 million attributable to 1993 through 1997 
sales of Plant Scherer Unit 4 to FP&L and JEA.


                                      I-22




Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

(1)    SOUTHERN and Subsidiaries v. Commissioner of the IRS
       (U.S. Tax Court)

       Reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's, ALABAMA's, and GEORGIA's
       financial statements in Item 8 herein under the captions "Southern
       Company Tax Litigation", "Tax Litigation", and "Tax Litigation",
       respectively.

(2)    Frost v. ALABAMA
       (Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama)

       Reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and ALABAMA's financial
       statements in Item 8 herein under the captions "Alabama Power Appliance
       Warranty Litigation" and "Appliance Warranty Litigation", respectively.

(3)    GEORGIA has been designated as a potentially responsible party under the
       Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act with
       respect to a site in Brunswick, Georgia.

       Reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and GEORGIA's financial
       statements in Item 8 herein under the captions "Georgia Power Potentially
       Responsible Party Status" and "Certain Environmental Contingencies,"
       respectively.

    See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Construction Programs," "Fuel Supply," "Regulation
- - Federal Power Act" and "Rate Matters" as well as Note 3 to each registrant's
financial statements in Item 8 herein for a description of certain other
administrative and legal proceedings discussed therein.

    Additionally, each of the operating affiliates, Southern Energy, SCS,
Southern Nuclear, Energy Solutions and Southern Communications are, in the
normal course of business, engaged in litigation or administrative proceedings
that include, but are not limited to, acquisition of property, injuries and
damages claims, and complaints by present and former employees.

Item 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
           VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF AND MISSISSIPPI each held special meetings of their
shareholders on December 10, 1997, for the purpose of amending their respective
charters. The amendments eliminate restrictions on each of these registrant's
ability to (1) issue unsecured indebtedness, (2) sell assets, merge or
consolidate without preferred shareholder approval under certain circumstances,
and (3) pay dividends on common stock.

      The vote in connection with such matters was as follows:

                        FOR       ABSTAINED from or AGAINST

ALABAMA                2,373,283            85,507
GEORGIA                2,601,807            52,487
GULF                     437,296             5,394
MISSISSIPPI              328,961            16,340


                                      I-23




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF SOUTHERN

(Identification of executive officers of SOUTHERN is inserted in Part I in
accordance with Regulation S-K, Item 401(b), Instruction 3.) The ages of the
officers set forth below are as of December 31, 1997.


A. W. Dahlberg
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 57
Elected in 1985; President and Chief Executive
Officer of GEORGIA from 1988 through 1993. He was elected President of SOUTHERN
effective January 1994. He was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
effective March 1995.

Paul J. DeNicola
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 49
Elected in 1989; Executive Vice President of SOUTHERN since 1991. Elected
President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS effective January 1994. He
previously served as Executive Vice President of SCS from 1991 to 1993.

H. Allen Franklin
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 53
Elected in 1988; President and Chief Executive Officer
of SCS from 1988 through 1993 and, beginning 1991, Executive Vice President of
SOUTHERN. He was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of GEORGIA
effective January 1994.

Elmer B. Harris
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 58
Elected in 1989; President and Chief Executive Officer
of ALABAMA since 1989 and, beginning 1991, Executive Vice President of SOUTHERN.

David M. Ratcliffe
Senior Vice President
Age 49
Elected in 1995; President and Chief Executive Officer of MISSISSIPPI from 1991
to 1995. He also serves as Executive Vice President of SCS beginning in 1995.
Effective March 1, 1998, elected Executive Vice President and Treasurer of
GEORGIA.

W. L. Westbrook
Financial Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Age 58
Elected in 1986; responsible primarily for all aspects of financing for
SOUTHERN. He has served as Executive Vice President of SCS since 1986.

Thomas G. Boren
Vice President
Age 48
Elected in 1995; President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Energy since
1992.

Bill M. Guthrie
Vice President
Age 64
Elected in 1991; serves as Chief Production Officer for the SOUTHERN system.
Senior Executive Vice President of SCS effective January 1994 and Executive Vice
President of ALABAMA since 1988. He also serves as Executive Vice President of
GEORGIA and Vice President of GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH.

W. G. Hairston, III
Age 53
President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Nuclear since 1993. He
previously served as Executive Vice President of GEORGIA from 1989 to March
1997.

Stephen A. Wakefield
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Age 57
Elected in 1997.  Previously, he was a partner at the firm of Akin, Gump, 
Strauss, Hauer & Feld, LLP from July 1991 through August 10, 1997.

     Each of the above is currently an officer of SOUTHERN, serving a term
running from the last annual meeting of the directors (May 28, 1997) for one
year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified, except for Mr.Wakefield who was elected on August 11, 1997.


                                      I-24



                                     PART II

Item 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      (a)  The common stock of SOUTHERN is listed and traded on the New York
           Stock Exchange. The stock is also traded on regional exchanges across
           the United States. High and low stock prices, per the New York Stock
           Exchange Composite Tape during each quarter for the past two years
           were as follows:

             ---------------------- ----------- --------- --------
                                       High                 Low
                                    -----------           --------
             First Quarter          $23-3/8           $20-3/4
             Second Quarter          22-1/4            19-7/8
             Third Quarter           23                20-13/16
             Fourth Quarter          26-1/4            22

             First Quarter          $25-7/8           $22-3/8
             Second Quarter          24-5/8            21-1/4
             Third Quarter           24-5/8            21-3/4
             Fourth Quarter          23-1/8            21-1/8

             ------------------ --------------- --- --------------


           There is no market for the other registrants' common stock, all of
           which is owned by SOUTHERN. On February 28, 1998, the closing price
           of SOUTHERN's common stock was $24.6875.

      (b)  Number of SOUTHERN's common stockholders at December 31, 1997:
                                      200,508

           Each of the other registrants have one common stockholder, SOUTHERN.


      (c)  Dividends on each registrant's common stock are payable at the
           discretion of their respective board of directors. The dividends on
           common stock paid and/or declared by SOUTHERN and the operating
           affiliates to their stockholder(s) for the past two years were as
           follows: (in thousands)

             ----------------- --------- ------------- ----------
             Registrant        Quarter       1997          1996
             ----------------- --------- ------------- ----------

             SOUTHERN          First       $220,194     $211,081
                               Second       221,544      211,272
                               Third        222,980      212,200
                               Fourth       224,287      212,201

             ALABAMA           First         80,100       76,000
                               Second        85,600       76,400
                               Third         86,100       76,400
                               Fourth        87,800      118,700

             GEORGIA           First        122,700      121,500
                               Second       131,000      122,100
                               Third        131,800      122,100
                               Fourth       134,500      109,800

             GULF              First         12,900       12,300
                               Second        13,800       12,400
                               Third         13,800       12,400
                               Fourth        24,100       21,200

             MISSISSIPPI       First         11,300       10,600
                               Second        12,100       10,700
                               Third         12,200       10,600
                               Fourth        13,800       12,000

             SAVANNAH          First          5,100        4,800
                               Second         5,400        4,800
                               Third          5,500        4,800
                               Fourth         4,500        5,200
             ----------------- --------- ------------- ----------

    The dividend paid per share by SOUTHERN was 31.5(cent) for each quarter of
1996 and 32.5(cent) for each quarter of 1997. The dividend paid on SOUTHERN's
common stock for the first quarter of 1998 was raised to 33.5(cent) per share.


                                      II-1




    The amount of dividends on their common stock that may be paid by the
subsidiary registrants is restricted in accordance with their first mortgage
bond indenture and, in the case of SAVANNAH, its charter. The amounts of
earnings retained in the business and the amounts restricted against the payment
of cash dividends on common stock at December 31, 1997, were as follows:

   ------------------ ------------------ --- --------------
                          Retained            Restricted
                          Earnings              Amount
                      ------------------     --------------
                                  (in millions)
   ALABAMA                $1,221                $   796
   GEORGIA                 1,745                    897
   GULF                      172                    127
   MISSISSIPPI               170                    118
   SAVANNAH                  113                     68
   Consolidated            3,842                  2,024
   ------------------ ------------------ --- --------------

Item 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SOUTHERN. Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected 
Consolidated Financial and Operating Data," contained herein
at pages II-41 through II-54.

ALABAMA. Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected 
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-83
through II-96.

GEORGIA. Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected 
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-129
through II-143.

GULF. Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected 
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-172 through
II-185.

MISSISSIPPI. Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected 
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-212
through II-225.

SAVANNAH. Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected 
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-247
through II-259.


Item 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
           FINANCIAL CONDITION

SOUTHERN. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-8 through II-16.

ALABAMA. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-58 through II-64.

GEORGIA. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-100 through II-107.

GULF. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-147 through II-154.

MISSISSIPPI. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-189 through II-195.

SAVANNAH. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-229 through II-234.

Item 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Reference is made to information in SOUTHERN's "Management's Discussion and
Analysis - Derivative Financial Instruments" and to Note 1 to SOUTHERN's
financial statements under the headings "Financial Instruments for Non-Trading"
and "Financial Instruments for Trading" contained herein on pages II-13 through
II-14; and pages II-26 through II-28, respectively.


                                      II-2

 




                                      II-4

                              THE SOUTHERN COMPANY
                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                               FINANCIAL SECTION


                                      II-5

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

The management of Southern Company has prepared -- and is responsible for -- the
consolidated financial statements and related information included in this
report. These statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include
amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of management.
Financial information throughout this annual report is consistent with the
financial statements.

    The company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the company's internal audit staff. The company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of five directors
who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
reporting and control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with
management, the internal auditors, and the independent public accountants to
ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls, and financial reporting matters. The internal
auditors and independent public accountants have access to the members of the
audit committee at any time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position, results of operations,
and cash flows of Southern Company and its subsidiary companies in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.


/s/A. W. Dahlberg
   A. W. Dahlberg
   Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

/s/W. L. Westbrook
   W. L. Westbrook
   Financial Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
   and Treasurer

February 11, 1998

                                       II-6


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and to the Stockholders of Southern Company:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated
statements of capitalization of Southern Company (a Delaware corporation) and
subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related
consolidated statements of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements (pages 11-17 through
11-40) referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Southern Company and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1997
and 1996, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.


/s/Arthur Andersen LLP
   Atlanta, Georgia
   February 11, 1998

                                       II-7



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings and Dividends

Southern Company reported 1997 earnings of $972 million or $1.42 for both basic
and diluted earnings per share. The traditional core business of selling
electricity in the southeastern United States remained strong, while
non-traditional business results were adversely affected by a $111 million,
after taxes, windfall profits tax assessed against South Western Electricity
(SWEB) in the United Kingdom. SWEB is a subsidiary of Southern Energy, Inc.
(Southern Energy). Excluding the windfall profits tax, Southern Energy's
earnings account for 10 percent of consolidated net income in 1997.
Consolidated net income decreased by $155 million compared with the amount
reported for 1996. Continued cost controls and steady demand for electricity
were offset by increased financing costs for the non-traditional business and
the windfall profits tax.

   Costs related to work force reduction programs decreased earnings by $31
million or 5 cents per share and $53 million or 8 cents per share in 1997 and
1996, respectively. These costs are expected to be recovered through future
savings in approximately two years following each program's implementation.

   In 1996, earnings were $1.1 billion or $1.68 for both basic and diluted
earnings per share -- up 2 cents from the per share amount reported in 1995.
Earnings in 1996, when compared with 1995 results, were affected by increased
energy sales and growth in the non-traditional business.

   Dividends paid on common stock during 1997 were $1.30 per share or 321/2
cents per quarter. During 1996 and 1995, dividends paid per share were $1.26 and
$1.22, respectively. In January 1998, the Southern Company raised the quarterly
dividend to 331/2 cents per share or an annual rate of $1.34 per share.

Acquisitions

Southern Energy owns and manages international and domestic non-traditional
electric power production and delivery facilities for Southern Company. Southern
Energy's acquisitions of 100 percent of Consolidated Electric Power Asia (CEPA)
and a 26 percent interest in a German utility were completed in 1997. Also,
Southern Energy acquired SWEB in late 1995. These businesses have been included
in the consolidated financial statements since the dates of acquisition and are
not reflected in prior periods. As a result, changes in revenues and expenses
for Southern Energy in 1997 and 1996 reflect significant amounts related to
acquisitions, which were not fully reflected in each year being compared.
Therefore, to facilitate discussing the results of operations for business
segments, Southern Energy's variances are primarily driven by the above reason
unless otherwise noted.

Revenues

Operating revenues increased in 1997 and 1996 as a result of the following
factors:

                                        Increase (Decrease)
                                         From Prior Year
                                  ---------------------------------
                                       1997       1996       1995
                                  ---------------------------------
    Retail --                             (in millions)
       Growth and price
           change                    $  105     $  124     $ 177
       Weather                         (110)       (64)      143
       Fuel cost recovery and
          other                         (13)         2       134
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total retail                        (18)        62       454
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Sales for resale --
       Within service area              (28)        10        39
       Outside service area              76         14       (90)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total sales for resale               48         24       (51)
    Southern Energy                   2,154      1,040       458
    Other operating revenues             69         52        22
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating revenues         $2,253     $1,178     $ 883
    ===============================================================
    Percent change                     21.8%      12.8%     10.6%
    ---------------------------------------------------------------

    Retail revenues of $7.6 billion declined slightly compared with last year.
Continued growth in the traditional service area was offset by the negative
impact of weather on energy sales and by industrial and commercial customers
taking advantage of lower load management rates. This trend will probably
continue as the utility industry becomes much more competitive. In 1996, retail
revenues barely increased by 0.8 percent compared with the year 1995. Under fuel
cost recovery provisions, fuel revenues generally equal fuel expense --
including the fuel component of purchased energy -- and do not affect net
income.

    Sales for resale revenues within the service area were $381 million in 1997,
down 7.1 percent from the prior year. This decrease resulted primarily from
supplying less electricity under contractual agreements with certain wholesale
customers in 1997. Revenues from sales for resale within the service area were


                                       II-8



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

$409 million in 1996, up 2.5 percent from the prior year.

    Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area under long-term
contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity revenues reflect
the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the contracts.
Energy is generally sold at variable cost. The capacity and energy components
were as follows:

                          1997          1996         1995
                        ------------------------------------
                                   (in millions)
   Capacity               $203          $217         $237
   Energy                  183           176          151
   ---------------------------------------------------------
   Total                  $386          $393         $388
   =========================================================

    Capacity revenues decreased in 1997 and 1996 because the amount of capacity
under contract declined slightly during 1996. Additional declines in capacity
are not scheduled until after 1999.

    Southern Energy's revenues have escalated to $3.8 billion and $1.7 billion
in 1997 and 1996, respectively. These rapid increases are primarily attributable
to the development and growth of energy trading and marketing activities,
primarily in 1997. Also, revenues have increased as a result of international
acquisitions. In 1997, energy trading and marketing revenues increased $1.9
billion compared with amounts recorded in 1996. However, these revenues were
substantially offset by purchased power expenses incurred in completing these
trading and marketing transactions. Energy trading and marketing -- similar to
other low margin sales activities -- is dependent on huge volumes for
profitability.

    Changes in traditional core business revenues are influenced heavily by the
amount of energy sold each year. Kilowatt-hour sales for 1997 and the percent
change by year were as follows:

(billions of                                 
 kilowatt-hours)             Amount             Percent Change
                           ----------  ----------------------------
                               1997     1997       1996     1995
                           ----------  ----------------------------

Residential                    39.2     (2.2)%      2.5%     9.2%
Commercial                     38.9      2.5        5.7      5.5
Industrial                     54.2      2.6        2.2      2.7
Other                           0.9     (1.1)       5.7      2.1
                          ----------
Total retail                  133.2      1.1        3.3      5.4
Sales for resale --
  Within service area           9.9     (9.6)      15.4     16.2
  Outside service area         13.3     23.6       17.9    (15.1)
                          ----------
Total                         156.4      1.9        5.0      4.4
===================================================================

    The rate of increase in 1997 retail energy sales was significantly lower
than the past two years. Although the total number of residential customers
served increased by 63,000 during the year, residential energy sales experienced
a decline as a result of milder weather in 1997, compared with closer to normal
weather in 1996. Commercial and industrial sales both in 1997 and 1996 continued
to show slight gains in excess of the national averages. This reflects the
strength of business and economic conditions in Southern Company's traditional
service area. Energy sales to retail customers are projected to increase at an
average annual rate of 2.1 percent during the period 1998 through 2008.

    Energy sales for resale outside the service area are predominantly unit
power sales under long-term contracts to Florida utilities. Economy sales and
amounts sold under short-term contracts are also sold for resale outside the
service area. Sales to customers outside the service area increased in both 1997
and 1996 and declined in 1995 when compared with the respective prior year.
However, these fluctuations in energy sales under long-term contracts have
minimal effect on earnings because Southern Company is paid for dedicating
specific amounts of its generating capacity to these utilities outside the
service area.

Expenses

Total operating expenses of $10.7 billion for 1997 increased $2.2 billion
compared with the prior year. Traditional core business expenses increased $69
million. Southern Energy's expenses increased almost $2.1 billion. The sharp
increase for Southern Energy resulted primarily from two factors. First, the
acquisition of CEPA is reflected only in 1997 expenses. Second, nearly $1.9
billion relates to energy trading and marketing activities, which is included in
purchased power expenses. The costs to produce and deliver electricity for the
traditional core business in 1997 increased by $37 million to meet higher energy
demands. Also, costs related to work force reduction programs decreased in 1997
by $35 million. Traditional core business depreciation expenses and taxes other
than income taxes increased by $158 million as a result of additional utility
plant being placed into service and increased accelerated depreciation of
certain assets.

    In 1996, operating expenses of $8.5 billion increased 16.6 percent compared
with 1995. Traditional core business expenses increased $173 million. Southern
Energy's expenses increased $976 million. The large increase for Southern Energy
resulted primarily from SWEB, which was acquired in late 1995. The costs to


                                       II-9


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

produce and deliver electricity for the traditional core business in 1996
increased by $79 million to meet higher energy demands. Also, costs related to
work force reduction programs increased expenses by $58 million compared with
such expenses in 1995. Depreciation expense and taxes other than income taxes
increased $39 million.

    Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for Southern Company's
traditional core business. The mix of fuel sources for generation of electricity
is determined primarily by system load, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the
availability of hydro and nuclear generating units. The amount and sources of
generation and the average cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour generated --
within the core business service area -- were as follows:


                                      1997     1996      1995
                                   --------------------------
Total generation
   (billions of kilowatt-hours)        160      156       147
Sources of generation
   (percent) --
     Coal                               77       77       77
     Nuclear                            17       17       17
     Hydro                               4       4         4
     Oil and gas                         2       2         2
Average cost of fuel per net
   kilowatt-hour generated
      (cents) --
       Coal                           1.63     1.65      1.73
       Nuclear                        0.53     0.52      0.56
Total                                 1.46     1.48      1.53
- --------------------------------------------------------------

   Total fuel and purchased power expenses of $5.3 billion in 1997 increased
$2.0 billion compared with the prior year. These expenses for traditional core
business increased $32 million and, Southern Energy's portion increased $1.9
billion. The traditional core business's customer demand for electricity rose by
1.6 billion kilowatt-hours more than in 1996. The additional cost to meet the
demand was offset slightly by a lower average cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour
generated. Southern Energy's increase in expenses escalated as a result of
energy trading and marketing activities discussed earlier. Fuel and purchased
power costs of $3.3 billion in 1996 increased $731 million compared with 1995.
Traditional core business increased $49 million and Southern Energy increased
$682 million because of the acquisition of SWEB in late 1995.

    Excluding the windfall profits tax in the United Kingdom, total income taxes
in 1997 declined by $66 million compared with the amount in 1996. Southern
Energy's portion was a reduction of $37 million. For 1996, traditional core
business income taxes decreased $40 million, and Southern Energy increased $41
million.

    Total net interest charges and capital and preferred stock expenses
increased $248 million from amounts reported in the previous year. These costs
for traditional core business overall netted out to be nearly flat compared with
the reported amounts in 1996. Southern Energy's costs increased $221 million
related primarily to financing acquisitions. In 1996, these same costs for
traditional core business declined by $69 million, but Southern Energy's
interest charges increased $85 million. The decline in costs for core business
was attributable to lower interest rates and continued refinancing activities in
1996. As a result of favorable market conditions, $1.7 billion in 1997, $574
million in 1996, and $1.1 billion in 1995 of traditional senior securities were
issued for the primary purpose of retiring higher-cost securities.

Effects of Inflation

Southern Company's traditional core business is subject to rate regulation and
income tax laws that are based on the recovery of historical costs. Therefore,
inflation creates an economic loss because the company is recovering its costs
of investments in dollars that have less purchasing power. While the inflation
rate has been relatively low in recent years, it continues to have an adverse
effect on Southern Company because of the large investment in long-lived utility
plant. Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize this
economic loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing
facilities with fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt and preferred
stock. Any recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in
the rate of return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of Southern Company's future
earnings depends on numerous factors. Two major factors are: achieving energy
sales growth in a less regulated, more competitive environment; and operating
non-traditional business activities successfully.


                                      II-10

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

   Southern Company continues to position its business to meet the challenges of
a new competitive environment. Work force reduction programs have reduced
earnings by $31 million, $53 million, and $17 million for the years 1997, 1996,
and 1995, respectively. These actions -- in conjunction with other cost
containment programs -- will assist efforts to continue being a low-cost
provider of electricity.

   The operating companies currently operate as vertically integrated companies
providing electricity to customers within the traditional service area of the
southeastern United States. Prices for electricity provided by the operating
companies to retail customers are set by state public service commissions under
cost-based regulatory principles.

   Rates for Alabama Power and Mississippi Power are adjusted periodically
within certain limitations based on earned retail rate of return compared with
an allowed return. Georgia Power is required to file a general rate case by July
1, 1998. See Note 3 to the financial statements for information about other
retail and wholesale regulatory matters.

   Future earnings for the operating companies in the near term will depend upon
growth in energy sales, which is subject to a number of factors. These factors
include weather, competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities,
energy conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the
rate of economic growth in the company's service area.

   The electric utility industry in the United States is currently undergoing a
period of dramatic change as a result of regulatory and competitive factors.
Among the primary agents of change has been the Energy Policy Act of 1992
(Energy Act). The Energy Act allows independent power producers (IPPs) to access
a utility's transmission network in order to sell electricity to other
utilities. This enhances the incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for
a utility's large industrial and commercial customers and sell energy generation
to other utilities. Also, electricity sales for resale rates are being driven
down by wholesale transmission access and numerous potential new energy
suppliers, including power marketers and brokers. Southern Company is
aggressively working to maintain and expand its share of wholesale sales in the
Southeastern power markets.

   Although the Energy Act does not permit retail customer access, it was a
major catalyst for the current restructuring and consolidation taking place
within the utility industry. Numerous federal and state initiatives are in
varying stages to promote wholesale and retail competition. Among other things,
these initiatives allow customers to choose their electricity provider. As these
initiatives materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically
change. Some states have approved initiatives that result in a separation of the
ownership and/or operation of generating facilities from the ownership and/or
operation of transmission and distribution facilities. While various
restructuring and competition initiatives have been or are being discussed in
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi, none have been enacted to date.
Enactment would require numerous issues to be resolved, including significant
ones relating to transmission pricing and recovery of any stranded investments.
The inability of an operating company to recover its investments, including the
regulatory assets described in Note 1 to the financial statements, could have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition of that operating company.
The operating companies are attempting to minimize or reduce their cost
exposure. See Note 3 to the financial statements for information regarding these
efforts.

   Continuing to be a low-cost producer could provide opportunities to increase
market share and profitability in markets that evolve with changing regulation.
Conversely, unless Southern Company remains a low-cost producer and provides
quality service, the company's retail energy sales growth could be limited, and
this could significantly erode earnings.

   To adapt to a less regulated, more competitive environment, Southern Company
continues to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential business
strategies. These strategies may include business combinations, acquisitions
involving other utility or non-utility businesses or properties, internal
restructuring, disposition of certain assets, or some combination thereof.
Furthermore, Southern Company may engage in other new business ventures that
arise from competitive and regulatory changes in the utility industry. Pursuit
of any of the above strategies, or any combination thereof, may significantly
affect the business operations and financial condition of Southern Company.

    The Energy Act amended the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
(PUHCA). The amendment allows holding companies to form exempt wholesale
generators and foreign utility companies to sell power largely free of
regulation under PUHCA. These entities are able to sell power to affiliates --
under certain restrictions -- and to own and operate power generating facilities
in other domestic and international markets. To take advantage of existing and

                                       II-11


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

evolving opportunities, Southern Energy -- founded in 1981 -- is focused on
several key international and domestic business lines, including energy
distribution, integrated utilities, stand-alone generation, and other
energy-related products and services. As the energy marketplace evolves,
Southern Energy is positioning the company to become a major competitor in
energy trading and marketing activities. As part of this strategy, Southern
Energy entered into a joint venture with Vastar Resources effective in January
1998. The two companies combined their energy trading and marketing operations
to form a new full-service energy provider, Southern Company Energy Marketing.
Also, Southern Energy is expanding its international business through
acquisitions. In September 1997, Southern Energy acquired a 26 percent interest
in a German utility for approximately $820 million. Also, the acquisition of 
CEPA for a total net investment of some $2.1 billion was completed in mid-1997.
In late 1995, SWEB was acquired for approximately $1.8 billion. In July 1996, a
25 percent interest in SWEB was sold. For additional information on
acquisitions, see Note 14 to the financial statements.

    The CEPA acquisition has a slightly dilutive impact on earnings in the near
term. However, Southern Energy's investments should strengthen the opportunities
for Southern Company's long-term future earnings growth. At December 31, 1997,
Southern Energy's total assets amounted to $11 billion.

    The depreciation of southeast Asian currencies is likely to increase the
cost of electricity that nationally owned utilities purchase from independent
power projects relative to the prices received by those utilities from their
customers. This could cause a deterioration in the financial condition of
nationally owned utilities, which could potentially impact these
utilities' ability to meet their obligations under existing contracts and could
reduce the near-term opportunities for greenfield independent power projects in
the region. However, fewer greenfield opportunities may, to some extent, be
offset by increased opportunities for CEPA to acquire projects from regional
developers who have been adversely affected by the financial crisis, and also
by a possible increase in the pace of privatizations by regional governments
needing to raise capital.

    Also during 1997, there was a substantial depreciation of the Philippine
peso relative to the U.S. dollar. However, the long-term power sales contracts
that govern CEPA's revenues from existing projects in the Philippines provide
for U.S. dollar payments, or indexing to the U.S. dollar. This should
sufficiently cover foreign currency costs of operation, including debt service
and return on and of capital. The National Power Corporation, whose obligations
are guaranteed by the Republic of the Philippines, is the counterparty to these
contracts. 

   The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has questioned
certain of the current accounting practices of the electric utility industry --
including Southern Company's -- regarding the recognition, measurement, and
classification of decommissioning costs for nuclear generating facilities in the
financial statements. In response to these questions, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) has decided to review the accounting for liabilities
related to closure and removal of long-lived assets, including nuclear
decommissioning. If the FASB issues new accounting rules, the estimated costs
of closing and removing Southern Company's nuclear and other facilities may be
required to be recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Also, the annual provisions for such costs could change. Because of the
company's current ability to recover closure and removal costs through rates,
these changes would not have a significant adverse effect on results of
operations. See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Depreciation and
Nuclear Decommissioning" for additional information.

   Southern Company is heavily dependent upon complex computer systems for all
phases of its operations. The year 2000 issue --common to most corporations --
concerns the inability of certain software and databases to properly recognize
date-sensitive information related to the year 2000 and thereafter. This problem
could result in a material disruption to the company's operations, if not
corrected. Southern Company has assessed and developed a detailed strategy to
prevent or at least minimize problems related to the year 2000 issue. In 1997,
resources were committed and implementation began to modify the affected
information systems. Total costs related to the project are estimated to be
approximately $85 million, of which $8 million was spent in 1997. Most all
remaining costs will be expensed in 1998. Implementation is currently on
schedule. Although the degree of success of this project cannot be determined at
this time, management believes there will be no significant effect on the
company's operations.
 


                                      II-12

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

   Southern Company is involved in various matters being litigated. See Note 3
to the financial statements for information regarding material issues that
could possibly affect future earnings.

   Compliance costs related to current and future environmental laws and
regulations could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The
Clean Air Act and other important environmental items are discussed later under
"Environmental Matters."

   The operating companies are subject to the provisions of FASB Statement No.
71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation. In the event that
a portion of a company's operations is no longer subject to these provisions,
the company would be required to write off related regulatory assets and
liabilities that are not specifically recoverable, and determine if any other
assets have been impaired. See Note 1 to the financial statements under
"Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for additional information.

New Accounting Standard

The FASB has issued Statement No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, which
will be effective in 1998. This statement establishes standards for reporting
and display of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general
purpose financial statements. The objective of the statement is to report a
measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise that result from transactions
and other economic events of the period other than transactions with owners
(comprehensive income). Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all
other non-owner changes in equity. Southern Company will adopt this statement in
1998.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

Southern Company's financial condition continues to remain strong. The company's
common stock closed 1997 with the highest year-end closing price in history.
Earnings, excluding the windfall profits tax, were some $1.1 billion. Based on
this performance, in January 1998, the Southern Company board of directors
increased the common stock dividend for the seventh consecutive year.

    Gross property additions to utility plant were $1.9 billion in 1997. The
majority of funds needed for gross property additions since 1994 has been
provided from operating activities, principally from earnings and non-cash
charges to income. Southern Energy's business acquisitions in 1997 amounted to
approximately $2.9 billion. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows provide
additional details.

Derivative Financial Instruments

Southern Company is exposed to market risks in both its trading and non-trading
operations. The non-trading operations are exposed to market risks, including
changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and certain commodity
prices. To mitigate changes in cash flows attributable to these exposures, the
company has entered into various derivative financial instruments. Company
policy for non-trading activities stipulates that derivatives are to be used
only for hedging purposes. Derivative positions are monitored using techniques
that include market value and sensitivity analysis.

   Interest rate swaps are used to hedge underlying debt obligations. These
swaps hedge specific debt issuances and therefore qualify for hedge accounting.
The company has interest rate swaps in various currencies. These match debt
issued in the same currency. In cases where debt is issued in currencies other
than the functional currency, currency swaps convert the exposure to that of the
functional currency. For qualifying hedges, the interest rate differential is
reflected as an adjustment to interest expense over the life of the instruments.

   If the company sustained a 100 basis point change in interest rates for all
variable rate debt in all currencies, the change would affect annualized
interest expense by approximately $35 million at December 31, 1997. Based on the
company's overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 1997, including
derivative and other interest rate sensitive instruments, a near-term 100 basis
point change in interest rates would not materially affect the consolidated
financial statements.

   The company has investments in various emerging market countries where the
net investments are not hedged, including Argentina, Chile, Trinidad, Bahamas,
Philippines, and China. The company relies on either currency pegs or
contractual or regulatory links to the U.S. dollar to mitigate currency risk
attributable to these investments. The company does not believe it has a
material exposure to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the
currencies of these countries. The company also has investments in the United
Kingdom and Germany, and for these investments the company uses long-term
cross-currency agreements to reduce a substantial portion of its exposure to
fluctuations in the British pound sterling and German Deutschemark. These
instruments are used to hedge its net investments in these countries. As a

                                       II-13

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report
 
result of these swaps, a 10 percent sustained decline of the British pound
sterling and German Deutschemark versus the U.S. dollar would not materially
affect the consolidated financial statements.

   The company also uses currency swaps and forward agreements to hedge dollar
denominated debt issued by subsidiaries with different functional currency.
These swaps offset the dollar flows, thereby effectively converting debt to the
appropriate currency. Gains and losses related to qualified hedges of foreign
currency firm commitments are deferred and included in the basis of the
underlying transactions.

   In addition to the non-trading activities, the company is exposed to market
risks through its electricity and natural gas commodity trading business. To
estimate and manage the market risk of its trading and marketing portfolio,
Southern Energy employs a daily Value at Risk (VAR) methodology. VAR is used to
describe a probabilistic approach to measuring the exposure to market risk. VAR
models are relatively sophisticated. However, the quantitative risk information
is limited by the parameters established in creating the model. The instruments
being evaluated may have features that may trigger a potential loss in excess of
calculated amounts if the changes in commodity prices exceed the confidence
level of the model used. The calculation utilizes the standard deviation of
seasonally adjusted historical changes in the value of the market risk sensitive
commodity-based financial instruments to estimate the amount of change (i.e.,
volatility) in the current value of these instruments that could occur at a
specified confidence level over a specified holding interval. The parameters
used in the calculation include holding intervals ranging from five to 20 days,
depending upon the type of instrument, the term of the instrument, the liquidity
of the underlying market, and other factors. The models employed a 95 percent
confidence level based on historical price movement. Based on the company's VAR
analysis of its overall commodity price risk exposure at December 31, 1997,
management does not anticipate a materially adverse effect on the company's
consolidated financial statements as a result of market fluctuations.

   In the United Kingdom, the company utilizes contracts to mitigate its
exposure to volatility in the prices of electricity purchased through the
wholesale electricity market. These contracts are in place to hedge electricity
purchases on approximately 20 billion kilowatt-hours through the year 2008. The
gains or losses realized on such contracts are deferred and recognized as
electricity is purchased. Because of the absence of a trading market, it is not
practicable to estimate the fair value of these contracts.

   Due to cost-based rate regulations, the operating companies have limited
exposure to market volatility in interest rates and prices of electricity.  To
mitigate residual risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the
operating companies enter into fixed price contracts for the purchase and sale
of electricity through the wholesale electricity market. Realized gains and
losses are recognized in the income statement as incurred. At December 31, 1997,
exposure from these activities was not material to the consolidated financial
statements.

    For additional information, see Note 1 to the financial statements under
"Financial Instruments for Non-Trading and Trading."

Capital Structure

Southern Company achieved a ratio of common equity to total capitalization --
including short-term debt -- of 38.6 percent in 1997, compared with 45.1 percent
in 1996, and 42.4 percent in 1995.

    During 1997, the subsidiary companies sold, through public authorities, $404
million of pollution control revenue bonds. Preferred securities of $1.3 billion
were issued in 1997. The companies continued to reduce financing costs by
retiring higher-cost bonds and preferred stock. Retirements, including
maturities, of bonds totaled $507 million during 1997, $600 million during 1996,
and $1.3 billion during 1995. As a result, the composite interest rate on
long-term debt decreased from 7.2 percent at December 31, 1994 to 6.6 percent
at December 31, 1997. Retirements of preferred stock totaled $660 million during
1997, $179 million during 1996, and $1 million during 1995.

    In 1997, Southern Company raised $360 million from the issuance of new
common stock under the company's various stock plans. At the close of 1997, the
company's common stock had a market value of 257/8 per share, compared with a
book value of $13.91 per share. The market-to-book value ratio was 186 percent
at the end of 1997, compared with 166 percent at year-end 1996, and 188 percent
at year-end 1995.


                                       II-14

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

Capital Requirements for Construction

The construction program of Southern Company is budgeted at $2.0 billion for
1998, $2.0 billion for 1999, and $1.6 billion for 2000. Actual construction
costs may vary from this estimate because of changes in such factors as:
business conditions; environmental regulations; nuclear plant regulations; load
projections; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that
costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

    The operating companies have approximately 1,600 megawatts of combined cycle
generation scheduled to be placed in service by 2001. Southern Energy has under
construction some 1,400 megawatts of owned capacity. Significant construction of
transmission and distribution facilities and upgrading of generating plants will
be continuing for the core business in the Southeast.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately $2.5
billion will be required by the end of 2000 for present sinking fund
requirements and maturities of long-term debt. Also, the subsidiaries will
continue to retire higher-cost debt and preferred stock and replace these
obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- significantly
affected Southern Company. Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen
oxide emissions from fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases.
Phase I compliance began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating units of
Southern Company. As a result of the company's compliance strategy, an
additional 22 generating units were brought into compliance with Phase I
requirements. Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired
generating plants will be affected.

   Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled approximately $300
million.

    For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired units as necessary
to meet Phase II limits and ozone non-attainment requirements for metropolitan
Atlanta through 2000. Current compliance strategy for Phase II and ozone
non-attainment could require total estimated construction expenditures of
approximately $70 million, of which $55 million remains to be spent.

    A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

   In July 1997, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) revised the national
ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. This revision
makes the standards significantly more stringent. Also, in October 1997, the EPA
issued a proposed regional ozone rule -- if implemented -- that could make
substantial further reductions in NOx emissions from fossil-fueled generating
facilities. Implementation of the standards and the proposed rule could result
in significant additional compliance costs and capital expenditures that cannot
be determined at this time.

    The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various other matters including: emission control strategies for
ozone non-attainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant
emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.

    Southern Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations
that cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various
laws and regulations, the subsidiaries could incur substantial costs to clean up
properties. The subsidiaries conduct studies to determine the extent of any
required cleanup costs and have recognized in their respective financial
statements costs to clean up known sites. These costs for Southern Company
amounted to $4 million in 1997 and $8 million in 1995. In 1996, the company was
reimbursed $6 million for amounts previously expensed. Additional sites may


                                       II-15

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

require environmental remediation for which the subsidiaries may be liable for a
portion or all required cleanup costs. See Note 3 to the financial statements
for information regarding Georgia Power's potentially responsible party status
at a site in Brunswick, Georgia.

    Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of Southern Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

    Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect Southern Company. The impact of new legislation -- if
any -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of
applicable regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the
result of lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.

Sources of Capital

The amount and timing of additional equity capital to be raised in 1998 -- as
well as in subsequent years -- will be contingent on Southern Company's
investment opportunities. Equity capital can be provided from any combination of
public offerings, private placements, or the company's stock plans. Any portion
of the common stock required during 1998 for the company's stock plans that is
not provided from the issuance of new stock will be acquired on the open market
in accordance with the terms of such plans.

    The operating companies plan to obtain the funds required for construction
and other purposes from sources similar to those used in the past, which were
primarily from internal sources. However, the type and timing of any financings
- -- if needed -- will depend on market conditions and regulatory approval.

    The operating companies historically have relied on issuances of first
mortgage bonds and preferred stock, in addition to pollution control revenue
bonds issued for their benefit by public authorities, to meet their long-term
external financing requirements. Recently, the operating companies' financings
have consisted of unsecured debt and trust preferred securities. In this regard,
the operating companies -- except Savannah Electric -- sought and obtained
stockholder approval in 1997 to amend their respective corporate charters
eliminating restrictions on the amounts of unsecured indebtedness they may
incur.

    To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, Southern Company had
approximately $601 million of cash and cash equivalents and $4.9 billion of
unused credit arrangements with banks at the beginning of 1998.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
Information

Southern Company's 1997 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements in
addition to historical information. The company cautions that there are various
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those indicated in the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no
assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors include
legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring
of the electric utility industry; the extent and timing of the entry of
additional competition in the markets of the subsidiary companies; potential
business strategies -- including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or
internal restructuring -- that may be pursued by the company; state and federal
rate regulation in the United States; changes in or application of environmental
and other laws and regulations to which the company and its subsidiaries are
subject; political, legal and economic conditions and developments in the United
States and in foreign countries in which the subsidiaries operate; financial
market conditions and the results of financing efforts; changes in commodity
prices and interest rates; weather and other natural phenomena; the performance
of projects undertaken by the non-traditional business and the success of
efforts to invest in and develop new opportunities; and other factors discussed
in the reports -- including Form 10-K -- filed from time to time by the company
with the SEC.



                                       II-16




                                       II-17





                                       II-18




                                       II-19



                                       II-20





                                       II-21


                                       II-22


NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES

General

Southern Company is the parent company of five operating companies, a system
service company, Southern Communications Services (Southern Communications),
Southern Company Energy Solutions, Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy),
Southern Nuclear Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), and other direct and
indirect subsidiaries. The operating companies -- Alabama Power, Georgia Power,
Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Savannah Electric -- provide electric service
in four southeastern states. Contracts among the operating companies -- dealing
with jointly owned generating facilities, interconnecting transmission lines,
and the exchange of electric power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC) and/or the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC). The system service company provides, at cost, specialized services to
Southern Company and subsidiary companies. Southern Communications provides
digital wireless communications services to the operating companies and also
markets these services to the public within the Southeast. Southern Company
Energy Solutions develops new business opportunities related to energy products
and services. Worldwide, Southern Energy develops and manages electricity and
other energy related projects, including domestic energy trading and marketing.
Southern Nuclear provides services to Southern Company's nuclear power plants. 

    Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both the company and its subsidiaries are
subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The operating companies also
are subject to regulation by the FERC and their respective state regulatory
commissions. The companies follow generally accepted accounting principles and
comply with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by their respective
commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates, and the
actual results may differ from those estimates. All material intercompany items
have been eliminated in consolidation.

    The consolidated financial statements reflect investments in controlled
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and other investments on an equity basis.
Effective in January 1998, Southern Energy and Vastar Resources combined their
energy trading and marketing activities to form a joint venture. Southern
Energy's investment in the joint venture will be accounted for under the equity
method of accounting. Certain prior years' data presented in the consolidated
financial statements have been reclassified to conform with the current year
presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The operating companies are subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain
Types of Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the
operating companies associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities
represent probable future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that
are expected to be credited to customers through the ratemaking process.
Regulatory assets and (liabilities) reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
at December 31 relate to the following:

                                              1997         1996
                                         ------------------------
                                              (in millions)
Deferred income taxes                       $1,142       $1,238
Deferred Plant Vogtle costs                     50          171
Premium on reacquired debt                     285          289
Demand-side programs                            11           44
Department of Energy assessments                63           69
Vacation pay                                    79           77
Deferred fuel charges                            4           29
Postretirement benefits                         38           38
Work force reduction costs                      37           48
Deferred income tax credits                   (746)        (814)
Storm damage reserves                          (36)         (32)
Other, net                                     152          114
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $1,079       $1,271
=================================================================

    In the event that a portion of an operating company's operations is no
longer subject to the provisions of FASB Statement No. 71, the company would be
required to write off related net regulatory assets and liabilities that are not
specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the company would
be required to determine if any impairment to other assets exists, including
plant, and write down the assets, if impaired, to their fair value.

                                       II-23


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

Revenues and Fuel Costs

The operating companies accrue revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the
end of each fiscal period. Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The
operating companies' electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for
fluctuations in fuel, the energy component of purchased power costs, and certain
other costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel
costs and amounts actually recovered in current rates.

    Southern Energy's revenues for product sales and marketing services are
recognized when title passes to the customer or when service is performed.

    The operating companies have a diversified base of customers. No single
customer or industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1997,
uncollectible accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.

    Fuel expense includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear fuel and a
charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear
fuel. Total charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted to $144
million in 1997, $142 million in 1996, and $140 million in 1995. Alabama Power
and Georgia Power have contracts with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that
provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Although disposal was
scheduled to begin in 1998, the actual year this service will begin is
uncertain. Sufficient storage capacity currently is available to permit
operation into 2003 at Plant Hatch, into 2008 at Plant Vogtle, and into 2010 and
2013 at Plant Farley units 1 and 2, respectively. Activities for adding dry cask
storage capacity at Plant Hatch by as early as 1999 are in progress.

    Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the establishment in 1993 of a
Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is funded in
part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants. This assessment
is being paid over a 15-year period, which began in 1993. This fund will be used
by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its nuclear fuel
enrichment facilities. The law provides that utilities will recover these
payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense. Alabama Power and Georgia
Power -- based on its ownership interests -- estimate their respective remaining
liability at December 31, 1997, under this law to be approximately $34 million
and $27 million, respectively. These obligations are recorded in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.4 percent in 1997 and 3.3 percent in 1996 and 1995. When property subject to
depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected costs
of decommissioning nuclear facilities and removal of other facilities.

    Georgia Power recorded additional depreciation of electric plant amounting
to $159 million in 1997, $24 million in 1996, and $6 million in 1995. See Note 3
under "Georgia Power Retail Accounting Order" for additional information.

    The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) requires all licensees operating
commercial power reactors to establish a plan for providing, with reasonable
assurance, funds for decommissioning. Alabama Power and Georgia Power have
external trust funds to comply with the NRC's regulations. Amounts previously
recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the external trust
funds over periods approved by the respective state public service commissions.
The NRC's minimum external funding requirements are based on a generic estimate
of the cost to decommission the radioactive portions of a nuclear unit based on
the size and type of reactor. Alabama Power and Georgia Power have filed plans
with the NRC to ensure that -- over time -- the deposits and earnings of the
external trust funds will provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by the
NRC.

    Site study cost is the estimate to decommission a specific facility as of
the site study year, and ultimate cost is the estimate to decommission a


                                       II-24


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

specific facility as of retirement date. The estimated costs of decommissioning
- -- both site study costs and ultimate costs -- at December 31, 1997, for Alabama
Power's Plant Farley and Georgia Power's ownership interests in plants Hatch and
Vogtle were as follows:

                                   Plant       Plant      Plant
                                   Farley      Hatch     Vogtle
                                 --------------------------------
Site study basis (year)              1993       1997       1997

Decommissioning periods:
   Beginning year                    2017       2014       2027
   Completion year                   2029       2027       2038
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                          (in millions)
Site study costs:
   Radiated structures               $489       $372       $317
   Non-radiated structures             89         33         44
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                $578       $405       $361
=================================================================

Ultimate costs:
   Radiated structures             $1,504       $722       $922
   Non-radiated structures            274         65        129
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              $1,778       $787     $1,051
=================================================================


                                      Plant    Plant      Plant
                                     Farley    Hatch     Vogtle
                                     -----------------------------
                                            (in millions)


Amount expensed in 1997                $ 18     $ 11        $ 9

Accumulated provisions:
   Balance in external trust
      funds                            $193     $118        $76
   Balance in internal reserves          44       23         13
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                  $237     $141        $89
==================================================================

Significant assumptions:
   Inflation rate                       4.5%     3.6%       3.6%
   Trust earning rate                   7.0      6.5        6.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

    Annual provisions for nuclear decommissioning are based on an annuity method
as approved by the respective state public service commissions. All of Alabama
Power's decommissioning costs are approved for ratemaking. For Georgia Power,
only the costs to decommission the radioactive portion of the plants are
currently included in cost of service.  Georgia Power's decommissioning costs
currently included in cost of service are $320 million and $267 million for
plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively.  The estimated ultimate costs associated
with the amounts currently included in cost of service are $781 million and
$1.1 billion for plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. Alabama Power and
Georgia Power expect their respective state public service commissions to
periodically review and adjust, if necessary, the amounts collected in rates for
the anticipated cost of decommissioning.

    The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary
from the above estimates because of changes in the assumed date of
decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions used
in making these estimates.

Income Taxes

Southern Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income
taxes and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

Plant Vogtle Phase-In Plans

In 1987, 1989, and 1991, the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC) ordered
that the allowed costs of Plant Vogtle, a two-unit nuclear facility of which
Georgia Power owns 45.7 percent, be phased into rates. Each GPSC order called
for recovery of deferred costs within 10 years. Under these plans, all allowed
costs will be recovered by 1999.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The composite rates used by the operating companies to
calculate AFUDC during the years 1995 through 1997 ranged from a
before-income-tax rate of 5.8 percent to 9.8 percent. AFUDC, net of income tax,
as a percent of consolidated net income was 1.6 percent in 1997, 1.4 percent in
1996, and 1.6 percent in 1995.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances. Original
cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions,
and other benefits; and the estimated cost of funds used during construction.
The cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is
charged to maintenance expense. The cost of replacements of property --
exclusive of minor items of property -- is charged to utility plant.


                                       II-25

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

Leasehold Interests

Leasehold interests include Southern Energy's power generation facilities that
are developed under build, operate, and transfer agreements with foreign
governments. Southern Energy's construction costs are initially recorded as
construction work in progress, and -- after completion -- these costs are
recorded as leasehold interests. These costs are amortized over the length of
time the facility is operated before transferring ownership to the local
government.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash
investments are considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are
securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.

Foreign Currency Translation

Assets and liabilities of Southern Company's international operations, where the
local currency is the functional currency, have been translated at year-end
exchange rates, and revenues and expenses have been translated using average
exchange rates prevailing during the year. Adjustments resulting from
translation have been recorded in stockholders' equity. The financial statements
of international operations, where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency
and when certain transactions are denominated in a local currency, are
remeasured in U.S. dollars. The remeasurement of local currencies into U.S.
dollars creates adjustments. These adjustments and all gains and losses from
foreign currency transactions are included in consolidated net income. Foreign
exchange gains and losses are not material for all periods presented.

Financial Instruments for Non-Trading

Non-trading derivative financial instruments are used to hedge exposures to
fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and certain
commodity prices. Gains and losses on qualifying hedges are deferred and
recognized either in income or as an adjustment to the carrying amount when the
hedged transaction occurs.

    The company utilizes interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate
swaps to minimize borrowing costs by changing the interest rate and currency of
the original borrowing. For qualifying hedges, the interest rate differential is
reflected as an adjustment to interest expense over the life of the swaps.

    Southern Company's international operations are exposed to the effects of
foreign exchange rate fluctuations. To protect against this exposure, the
company utilizes currency swaps to hedge its net investment in certain foreign
subsidiaries, which has the effect of converting foreign currency cash inflows
into U.S. dollars at fixed exchange rates. Gains or losses on these currency
swaps, designated as hedges of net investment, are offset against the
translation effects reflected in stockholders' equity, net of tax.

    Non-trading financial derivative instruments held at December 31, 1997, were
as follows:

                       Year of                     Unrecognized
                     Maturity or       Notional       Gain
Type                 Termination        Amount       (Loss)
- ------------------------------------  ---------------------------
                                           (in millions)
Interest rate
    swaps:
                     2002-2012          $710        $(33)
                     2001-2012    (pound)500        $(52)
                     2002-2007         DM691         $(3)
Cross currency
    swaps            2001-2007    (pound)439          $6
Cross currency
    swaption              2003         DM570          $1
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
(pound) - Denotes British pound sterling.
DM - Denotes Deutschemark.

    The company is exposed to losses related to financial instruments in the
event of counterparties' nonperformance. The company has established controls to
determine and monitor the creditworthiness of counterparties in order to
mitigate the company's exposure to counterparty credit risk. The company does
not expect any of the counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.

    In the United Kingdom, the company utilizes contracts to mitigate its
exposure to volatility in the prices of electricity purchased through the
wholesale electricity market. These contracts are in place to hedge electricity
purchases of approximately 20 billion kilowatt-hours through the year 2008. The
gains or losses realized on such contracts are deferred and recognized as
electricity is purchased. Because of the absence of a trading market, it is not
practicable to estimate the fair value of these contracts .

                                       II-26

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

    Other Southern Company financial instruments for which the carrying amount
did not equal fair value at December 31 were as follows:

                                         Carrying       Fair
                                          Amount        Value
                                       --------------------------
                                             (in millions)
Long-term debt:
    At December 31, 1997                $10,916        $11,160
    At December 31, 1996                  7,975          8,122
Capital and preferred securities:
    At December 31, 1997                  1,744          1,826
    At December 31, 1996                    422            427
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

    The fair values for long-term debt and capital and preferred securities were
based on either closing market price or closing price of comparable instruments.

Financial Instruments for Trading

Derivative financial instruments used for trading purposes primarily relate to
commodities associated with the energy sector, such as electricity, natural gas,
and crude oil. These instruments are recorded at fair value for balance sheet
purposes. The determination of fair value considers various factors, such as
closing exchange prices, broker price quotations, and model pricing. Model
pricing considers time value and volatility factors underlying any options and
contractual commitments. These transactions are accounted for using the
mark-to-market method of accounting in which the unrealized gains or losses
resulting from the impact of price movements are recognized as net gains or
losses in the consolidated statements of income. If the company has a master
netting agreement with counterparties, net positions are recognized for
consolidated balance sheet and income statement purposes.

    The company provides price risk management services by entering into a
variety of contractual commitments such as price cap and floor agreements,
futures contracts, forward purchase and sale agreements, and option contracts.
These contracts generally require future settlement, and are either executed on
an exchange or traded as over-the-counter (OTC) instruments. Contractual
commitments have widely varying terms and durations that range from a few hours
to a number of years depending on the instrument. The majority of the company's
transactions are short-term in duration, with a weighted average maturity of
approximately 1.3 years and 0.6 years at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

    All contractual commitments used for trading purposes are recorded at fair
value. Contracts in a net receivable position, as well as options held, are
reported as assets. Similarly, contractual commitments in a net payable
position, as well as options written, are reported as liabilities. The net
unrealized gain from risk management services amounted to $8 million at December
31, 1997. Southern Company has made guarantees to certain counterparties
regarding performance of contractual commitments by its affiliates related to
trading and marketing activities. Contractual commitments reflected in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31 were as follows:

                             
                             Net                   Fair Value
                          Notional        -------------------------
                           Amounts
  1997                 (Kilowatt-Hours)    Assets     Liabilities
- ----------            ---------------------------------------------
                                     (in millions)
Exchange-issued
    products:
      Futures
        contracts              904           $14          $15
      Other                    958             1            1
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                        1,862            15           16
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
OTC products:
    Forward
      contracts              2,643            69           62
    Swaps                     (473)            1            -
    Other                      639             9            8
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                        2,809            79           70
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                        4,671           $94          $86
===================================================================

                             
                            Net                   Fair Value
                          Notional          -----------------------
                          Amounts
 1996                   (Kilowatt-Hours)    Assets     Liabilities
- ------------          ---------------------------------------------
                                     (in millions)
Exchange-issued
    products:
      Futures
        contracts               42           $ 3          $ 3
      Other                    105             -            -
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                          147             3            3
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
OTC products:
    Forward
      contracts                 56            15           15
    Swaps                        -             -            -
    Other                       51             -            -
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                          107            15           15
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                          254           $18          $18
===================================================================

                                       II-27

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

    Notional amounts -- stated in equivalent millions of kilowatt-hours -- are
indicative only of the volume of activity and are not a measure of market risk.
Notional amounts of natural gas and crude oil positions are reflected in
equivalent kilowatt-hours based on standard conversion rates. The company has
established controls to determine and monitor the creditworthiness of
counterparties in order to mitigate the company's exposure to counterparty
credit risk. A concentration of counterparties may impact the company's overall
exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that the
counterparties may be similarly affected by changes in economic, regulatory, or
other conditions.

    The annual average gross balances of the company's options and contractual
commitments used for trading purposes, based on month-end balances were as
follows:

                                          Average Fair Value
                                       -------------------------
1997                                     Assets    Liabilities
- -----------                            -------------------------
                                            (in millions)
Commodity instruments:
    Electricity                            $97         $94
    Gas                                      6           6
    Other                                    7           6


                                          Average Fair Value
                                       -------------------------
1996                                     Assets    Liabilities
- -----------                            -------------------------
                                            (in millions)
Commodity instruments:
    Electricity                            $19         $18
    Gas                                      1           1
    Other                                    -           -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the costs of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory
when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

2.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plans

The system companies have defined benefit, trusteed, pension plans that cover
substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on one of the following
formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of service and a
flat-dollar benefit. Primarily, the companies use the "entry age normal method
with a frozen initial liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject
to limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the
pension trusts are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities.
FASB Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

In the United States, Southern Company provides certain medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees. Substantially all these employees may
become eligible for such benefits when they retire. The operating companies fund
trusts to the extent deductible under federal income tax regulations or to the
extent required by their respective regulatory commissions.  Amounts funded are
primarily invested in debt and equity securities.

    FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." In October 1993, the GPSC ordered
Georgia Power to phase in the adoption of Statement No. 106 to cost of service
over a five-year period, whereby one-fifth of the additional costs was expensed
in 1993 and the remaining costs were deferred. An additional one-fifth of the
costs was expensed each succeeding year until the costs were fully reflected in
cost of service in 1997. The costs deferred during the five-year period will be
amortized to expense over a 15-year period beginning in 1998. For the other
operating companies, the cost of postretirement benefits is reflected in rates
on a current basis.



                                       II-28

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The funded status of the plans and reconciliation to amounts reflected in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31 were as follows:

                                                    Pension
                                           -----------------------
                                                1997         1996
                                           -----------------------
                                                (in millions)
Actuarial present value of
  benefit obligation:
    Vested benefits                          $ 2,891      $ 2,730
    Non-vested benefits                           83          119
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                 2,974        2,849
Additional amounts related to
    projected salary increases                   728          775
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation                   3,702        3,624
Less:
    Fair value of plan assets                  5,953        5,258
    Unrecognized net gain                     (1,877)      (1,314)
    Unrecognized prior service cost              126          135
    Unrecognized transition asset               (101)        (114)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid asset recognized in the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets              $   399      $   341
==================================================================

                                        Postretirement Benefits
                                      ----------------------------
                                                1997         1996
                                      --------------- ------------
                                                (in millions)
Actuarial present value of
  benefit obligation:
      Retirees and dependents                   $477         $409
      Employees eligible to retire                85           78
      Other employees                            373          383
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                   935          870
Less:
    Fair value of plan assets                    335          260
    Unrecognized net loss (gain)                  68           79
    Unrecognized prior service cost               (4)          (5)
    Unrecognized transition
       obligation                                233          249
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liability recognized in the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets                 $303         $287
===================================================================

   The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations were:

                                   1997        1996       1995
                               ---------------------------------
Discount                            7.5%        7.8%       7.3%
Annual salary increase              5.0         5.3        4.8
Long-term return on
    plan assets                     8.5         8.5        8.5
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

    An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 8.8
percent for 1997, decreasing gradually to 5.5 percent through the year 2005, and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation at December 31, 1997, by $80 million and the aggregate of the service
and interest cost components of the net retiree cost by $7 million.

    Components of the plans' net costs are shown below:

                                                  Pension
                                        ---------------------------
                                           1997     1996     1995
                                        ---------------------------
                                               (in millions)
Benefits earned during the year           $  94    $  99    $  79
Interest cost on projected
    benefit obligation                      271      267      193
Actual return on plan assets               (856)    (564)    (730)
Net amortization and deferral               417      152      412
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension cost (income)                 $ (74)   $ (46)   $ (46)
===================================================================

    Of the above net pension income, $52 million in 1997, $37 million in 1996,
and $30 million in 1995 were recorded in operating expenses, and the remainder
was recorded in construction and other accounts.


                                           Postretirement Benefits
                                       ---------------------------
                                         1997     1996      1995
                                       ---------------------------
                                              (in millions)
Benefits earned during the year          $ 18     $ 20      $ 28
Interest cost on accumulated
    benefit obligation                     67       60        67
Amortization of transition
    obligation                             15       15        27
Actual return on plan assets              (28)     (17)      (23)
Net amortization and deferral              12        6        12
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement costs                 $ 84     $ 84      $111
==================================================================

    Of the above net postretirement costs, $70 million in 1997, $64 million in
1996, and $78 million in 1995 were charged to operating expenses, and $3 million
in 1996 and $11 million in 1995 were deferred. The remainder for each year was
charged to construction and other accounts.

Work Force Reduction Programs

The system companies have incurred additional costs for work force reduction
programs. The costs related to these programs were $50 million, $85 million, and
$42 million for the years 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. In addition,
certain costs of these programs were deferred and are being amortized in


                                       II-29

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

accordance with regulatory treatment. The unamortized balance of these costs was
$37 million at December 31, 1997.

3.   LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

Alabama Power Appliance Warranty Litigation

In 1996, legal actions against Alabama Power were filed in several counties in
Alabama charging Alabama Power with fraud and non-compliance with regulatory
statutes relating to the offer, sale, and financing of "extended service
contracts" in connection with the sale of electric appliances. Some of these
suits were filed as class actions, while others were filed on behalf of multiple
individual plaintiffs. The plaintiffs seek damages for an unspecified amount.
Alabama Power has offered extended service agreements to its customers since
January 1984, and approximately 175,000 extended service agreements could be
involved in these proceedings. The final outcome of these cases cannot now be
determined.

Georgia Power Potentially Responsible Party Status

In January 1995, Georgia Power and four other unrelated entities were notified
by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that they have been designated as
potentially responsible parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act with respect to a site in Brunswick, Georgia. As
of December 31, 1997, Georgia Power had recorded approximately $5 million in
expenses associated with the site. This represents Georgia Power's agreed upon
share of removal and remedial investigation and feasibility study costs.

    The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. However, based on
the nature and extent of Georgia Power's activities relating to the site,
management believes that the company's portion of any remaining remediation
costs should not be material to the financial statements.

Georgia Power Investment in Rocky Mountain

In its 1985 financing order, the GPSC concluded that completion of the Rocky
Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric plant in 1991 as then planned was not
economically justifiable and reasonable and withheld authorization for Georgia
Power to spend funds from approved securities issuances on that plant. In 1988,
Georgia Power and Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC) entered into a joint
ownership agreement for OPC to assume responsibility for the construction and
operation of the plant. The plant went into commercial operation in 1995.

    In June 1996, the GPSC initiated a review of this plant. On January 14,
1998, the GPSC ordered that Georgia Power be allowed to include approximately
$108 million of its $143 million investment in rate base as of December 31,
1998. Georgia Power has appealed the GPSC's order to the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia. If the order is upheld, Georgia Power will be required
to record a write-off currently estimated to be approximately $29 million, after
taxes.

    The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. Accordingly, no
provision related to the GPSC's disallowance has been recorded.

FERC Reviews Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the operating companies' wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power, and other similar contracts.

    In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

    In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on
substantially the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a
FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to
meet its burden of proof, and therefore, no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter is pending before the FERC.

    If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all of the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings -- as
well as to certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in
determining return on common equity -- and if refunds were ordered, the amount




                                       II-30

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

of refunds could range up to approximately $194 million at December 31, 1997.
Although management believes that rates are not excessive and that refunds are
not justified, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Southern Company Tax Litigation

In August 1997, Southern Company and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) entered
into a settlement agreement related to tax issues for the years 1984 through
1987. The agreement is subject to the review and approval by the Joint
Congressional Committee on Taxation. If approved by the Joint Committee, the
agreement would resolve all issues in the case for the years before the U.S. Tax
Court, resulting in a refund to Southern Company of approximately $162 million.
This amount includes interest of $76 million. The tax litigation was related to
a timing issue as to when taxes should have been paid; therefore, only the
interest portion will affect future income. There can be no assurance that such
Joint Committee approval will be received.

Alabama Power Rate Adjustment Procedures

In November 1982, the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC) adopted rates
that provide for periodic adjustments based upon Alabama Power's earned return
on end-of-period retail common equity. The rates also provide for adjustments to
recognize the placing of new generating facilities in retail service. Both
increases and decreases have been placed into effect since the adoption of these
rates. The rate adjustment procedures allow a return on common equity range of
13.0 percent to 14.5 percent and limit increases or decreases in rates to 4
percent in any calendar year.

    In June 1995, the APSC issued a rate order granting Alabama Power's request
for gradual adjustments to move toward parity among customer classes. This order
also calls for a moratorium on any periodic retail rate increases (but not
decreases) until July 2001.

    In December 1995, the APSC issued an order authorizing Alabama Power to
reduce balance sheet items -- such as plant and deferred charges -- at any time
the company's actual base rate revenues exceed the budgeted revenues. In April
1997, the APSC issued an additional order authorizing Alabama Power to reduce
balance sheet asset items. This order authorizes the reduction of such items up
to an amount equal to five times the total estimated annual revenue reduction
resulting from future rate reductions initiated by Alabama Power.

    The ratemaking procedures will remain in effect until the APSC votes to
modify or discontinue them.

Georgia Power Retail Accounting Order

In February 1996, the GPSC approved a three-year accounting order, effective
January 1, 1996. Under the accounting order, Georgia Power's earnings are
evaluated against a retail return on common equity range of 10 percent to 12.5
percent. Earnings in excess of 12.5 percent will be used to accelerate the
amortization of regulatory assets or to accelerate the depreciation of electric
plant. At its option, Georgia Power may also accelerate amortization or
depreciation of assets while within the range allowed on common equity. Georgia
Power is required to absorb cost increases of approximately $29 million annually
during the three-year period, including $14 million annually of accelerated
depreciation of electric plant. Under the accounting order, Georgia Power will
not file for a general base rate increase unless its projected retail return on
common equity falls below 10 percent. On July 1, 1998, Georgia Power is required
to file a general rate case. In response, the GPSC would be expected to either
continue the provisions of the accounting order or adopt new ones.

    A consumer group appealed the GPSC's decision to the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia. In 1996, the superior court ruled that statutory
requirements applicable to rate cases were not followed and remanded the matter
to the GPSC. In October 1997, the Georgia Court of Appeals upheld the accounting
order and reversed the superior court's decision. This matter is now concluded.

4.   CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

The system companies are engaged in continuous construction programs, currently
estimated to total some $2.0 billion in 1998, $2.0 billion in 1999, and $1.6
billion in 2000. The construction programs are subject to periodic review and
revision, and actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates
because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business
conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations;
changes in existing nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements;
increasing costs of labor, equipment, and materials; and cost of capital. At
December 31, 1997, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in
connection with the construction program. The operating companies have
approximately 1,600 megawatts of combined cycle generation scheduled to be
placed in service by 2001. Southern Energy has under construction some 1,400

                                       II-31

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report


megawatts of owned capacity. In addition, significant construction will continue
related to transmission and distribution facilities and the upgrading of
generating plants.

    See Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Environmental Matters" for
information on the impact of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and other
environmental matters.

5.   FINANCING, INVESTMENTS, AND
     COMMITMENTS

General

The amount and timing of additional equity capital to be raised in 1998 -- as
well as in subsequent years -- will be contingent on Southern Company's
investment opportunities. Equity capital can be provided from any combination of
public offerings, private placements, or the company's stock plans.

    The operating companies' construction programs are expected to be financed
primarily from internal sources. Short-term debt is often utilized and the
amounts available are discussed below. The companies may issue additional
long-term debt and preferred securities primarily for debt maturities and for
redeeming higher-cost securities if market conditions permit.

Bank Credit Arrangements

At the beginning of 1998, unused credit arrangements with banks totaled $4.9
billion, of which $3.0 billion expires during 1998, $800 million during 1999 to
2001, and $1.0 billion during 2002. The following table outlines the credit
arrangements by company:

                                      Amount of Credit
                          -----------------------------------------
                                                     Expires
                                               --------------------
                                                            1999 &
Company                     Total    Unused        1998     beyond
- -------------             -----------------------------------------
                                       (in millions)
   Alabama Power           $  814    $  814      $  679    $  135
   Georgia Power            1,144     1,144         919       225
   Gulf Power                 103        94          94         -
   Mississippi Power           96        76          56        20
   Savannah Electric           41        41          21        20
   Southern Company         2,000     2,000       1,000     1,000
   Southern Energy          1,038       635         193       442
   Other                       70        66          66         -
                         ------------------------------------------
   Total                   $5,306    $4,870      $3,028    $1,842
                         ==========================================

    Approximately $2.1 billion of the credit facilities allows for term loans
ranging from one to three years.  Most of the agreements include stated
borrowing rates but also allow for competitive bid loans.

    All of the credit arrangements require payment of commitment fees based on
the unused portion of the commitments or the maintenance of compensating
balances with the banks. These balances are not legally restricted from
withdrawal. Of Southern Company's credit facilities, $1.7 billion is a
syndicated credit arrangement which also requires the payment of agent fees.

    A portion of the $4.9 billion unused credit with banks is allocated to
provide liquidity support to the companies' variable rate pollution control
bonds. At December 31, 1997, the amount of the credit lines allocated for this
purpose was $1.2 billion.

    In addition, the companies from time to time borrow under uncommitted lines
of credit with banks, and in the case of Southern Company, Alabama Power,
Georgia Power, and Southern Energy, through commercial paper programs that have
the liquidity support of committed bank credit arrangements.

Assets Subject to Lien

Each of Southern Company's subsidiaries is organized as a legal entity,
separate, and apart from Southern Company and its other subsidiaries. The
subsidiary companies' mortgages, which secure the first mortgage bonds issued by
the companies, constitute a direct first lien on substantially all of the
companies' respective fixed property and franchises. There are no agreements or
other arrangements among the subsidiary companies under which the assets of one
company have been pledged or otherwise made available to satisfy obligations of
Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the generating plants, Southern
Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of
fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments.



                                       II-32

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

Also, Southern Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the
purchase of electricity. Total estimated long-term obligations at December 31,
1997, were as follows:

                                                   Purchased
Year                                Fuel             Power
- -----------                    ------------------------------
                                    (in millions)
1998                             $ 2,081              $  338
1999                               1,596                 164
2000                               1,235                 175
2001                               1,122                 178
2002                               1,005                 182
2003 and thereafter                4,580               1,720
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Total commitments                $11,619              $2,757
=============================================================

Operating Leases

Southern Company has operating lease agreements with various terms and
expiration dates. These expenses totaled $33 million, $23 million, and $17
million for 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. At December 31, 1997, estimated
minimum rental commitments for noncancelable operating leases were as follows:

Year                                            Amounts
- --------                                    -----------------
                                             (in millions)
1998                                                    $ 39
1999                                                      37
2000                                                      32
2001                                                      28
2002                                                      28
2003 and thereafter                                      291
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Total minimum payments                                  $455
=============================================================

6.  FACILITY SALES AND JOINT OWNERSHIP
    AGREEMENTS

In 1992, Alabama Power sold an undivided interest in units 1 and 2 of Plant
Miller and related facilities to Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc.

    Since 1975, Georgia Power has sold undivided interests in plants Vogtle,
Hatch, Scherer, and Wansley in varying amounts, together with transmission
facilities, to OPC, the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, and the city of
Dalton, Georgia. In addition, Georgia Power has joint ownership agreements with
OPC for the Rocky Mountain project and with Florida Power Corporation (FPC) for
a combustion turbine unit at Intercession City, Florida.

    At December 31, 1997, Alabama Power's and Georgia Power's ownership and
investment (exclusive of nuclear fuel) in jointly owned facilities with the
above entities were as follows:

                              Jointly Owned Facilities
                  -------------------------------------------------
                      Percent          Amount of     Accumulated
                       Ownership       Investment     Depreciation
                  ------------------- ------------------------------
Plant Vogtle                              (in millions)
  (nuclear)              45.7%        $3,299              $1,100
Plant Hatch
  (nuclear)              50.1            840                 477
Plant Miller
  (coal)
  Units 1 and 2          91.8            717                 311
Plant Scherer
  (coal)
  Units 1 and 2           8.4            112                  44
Plant Wansley
  (coal)                 53.5            298                 136
Rocky Mountain
  (pumped storage)       25.4            202                  44
Intercession City
  (combustion turbine)   33.3             13                   *
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
*Less than $1 million.

    Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracted to operate and maintain the
jointly owned facilities -- except for the Rocky Mountain project and
Intercession City -- as agents for their respective co-owners. The companies'
proportionate share of their plant operating expenses is included in the
corresponding operating expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

7.   LONG-TERM POWER SALES
     AGREEMENTS

The operating companies have long-term contractual agreements for the sale of
capacity and energy to certain non-affiliated utilities located outside the
system's service area. These agreements -- expiring at various dates discussed
below -- are firm and pertain to capacity related to specific generating units.
Because the energy is generally sold at cost under these agreements,
profitability is primarily affected by revenues from capacity sales. The
capacity revenues amounted to $203 million in 1997, $217 million in 1996, and
$237 million in 1995.

    Unit power from specific generating plants is currently being sold to
Florida Power & Light Company (FP&L), FPC, Jacksonville Electric Authority
(JEA), and the city of Tallahassee, Florida. Under these agreements,
approximately 1,600 megawatts of capacity is scheduled to be sold annually
through 1999. Thereafter, these sales will decline to some 1,500 megawatts and



                                       II-33

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

remain at that approximate level -- unless reduced by FP&L, FPC, and JEA for the
periods after 1999 with a minimum of three years notice -- until the expiration
of the contracts in 2010.

8.   INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1997, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were
$1.1 billion and $746 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to
tax benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable
to capitalized AFUDC. These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes
previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.

     Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

                                           1997      1996     1995
                                      -----------------------------
                                              (in millions)
Total provision for income taxes:
Federal --
   Currently payable                      $ 547      $569    $ 567
   Deferred -- current year                 188       116      185
             -- reversal of
                  prior years              (160)      (74)    (111)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            575       611      641
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
State --
   Currently payable                        104        82       90
   Deferred -- current year                  15        23       26
             -- reversal of
                  prior years               (19)       (9)     (12)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            100        96      104
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
International -
   Windfall profits tax
   assessed in United Kingdom               148         -        -
   Other                                     16        50       24
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       839       757      769
Less income taxes charged
   (credited) to other income               114        10      (36)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes charged
   to operations                          $ 725      $747    $ 805
====================================================================

     The first half of the windfall profits tax assessed in the United Kingdom
was paid in December 1997, and the remainder is due December 1998.

     The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

                                                1997       1996
                                            ---------------------
                                               (in millions)
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Accelerated depreciation                    $3,345     $2,981
  Property basis differences                   1,756      2,154
  Other                                          269        362
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          5,370      5,497
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
  Federal effect of state deferred taxes         108        110
  Other property basis differences               245        253
  Deferred costs                                 116        139
  Pension and other benefits                      72         68
  Other                                          197        214
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                            738        784
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                   4,632      4,713
Portion included in current assets, net           18         25
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income taxes
    in the Consolidated Balance Sheets        $4,650     $4,738
=================================================================

    Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this
manner amounted to $30 million in 1997, $33 million in 1996, and $38 million in
1995. At December 31, 1997, all investment tax credits available to reduce
federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

    A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                          1997       1996      1995
                                       -------------------------------
Federal statutory rate                    35.0%      35.0%     35.0%
State income tax,
   net of federal deduction                3.4        3.2       3.4
Non-deductible book
   depreciation                            2.3        1.8       1.6
Windfall profits tax                       8.0        -         -
Difference in prior years'
   deferred and current tax rate          (1.5)      (1.0)     (1.1)
Other                                     (1.9)      (0.5)      0.3
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate                 45.3%      38.5%     39.2%
======================================================================

    Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return. Under a
joint consolidated income tax agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred
tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the
parent company are allocated to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable
income to total consolidated taxable income.


                                       II-34


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

9.    COMMON STOCK

Shares Reserved

At December 31, 1997, a total of 49 million shares was reserved for issuance
pursuant to the Southern Investment Plan, the Employee Savings Plan, the Outside
Directors Stock Plan, and the Performance Stock Plan.

Performance Stock Plan

Southern Company's Executive Stock Option Plan was replaced by the Performance
Stock Plan effective February 17, 1997. As of December 31, 1997, 283 current and
former employees participated in the plan. The maximum number of shares of
common stock that may be issued under the new plan may not exceed 40 million.
The prices of options granted to date have been at the fair market value of the
shares on the dates of grant. The first grant under the new plan was in July
1997. Options granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum period
of four years from the date of grant. Options outstanding will expire no later
than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier by the Southern
Company Board of Directors in accordance with the plan. Stock option activity
in 1996 and 1997 for both plans are summarized below:

                                             Shares         Average
                                            Subject    Option Price
                                          To Option       Per Share
                                  ----------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1995              2,476,299          $19.87
Options granted                           1,460,731           23.00
Options canceled                            (13,878)          22.35
Options exercised                           (97,988)          17.94
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1996              3,825,164           21.11
Options granted                           1,776,094           21.25
Options canceled                            (51,913)          21.83
Options exercised                          (137,426)          19.72
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1997              5,411,919          $21.18
====================================================================
Shares reserved for future grants:
   At December 31, 1995                   2,114,915
   At December 31, 1996                     668,062
   At December 31, 1997                  38,234,044
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Options exercisable:
   At December 31, 1996                   1,279,830
   At December 31, 1997                   1,996,724
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

    Southern Company accounts for its stock-based compensation plans in
accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25. Accordingly, no
compensation expense has been recognized.

    The pro forma impact on earnings of fair-value accounting for options
granted -- as required by FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation -- is less than 1 cent per share and is not significant to the
consolidated financial statements.

Earnings Per Share

In 1997, Southern Company adopted FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share.
This statement simplifies the methodology for computing both basic and diluted
earnings per share. The only difference in the two methods for computing
Southern Company's per share amounts is attributable to outstanding options,
under the Performance Stock Plan. The effect of the stock options was determined
using the treasury stock method. Consolidated net income as reported was not
affected. Shares used to compute diluted earnings per share are as follows:

                                  Average Common Stock Shares
                             --------------------------------------
                                   1997           1996        1995
                             --------------------------------------
                                          (in thousands)
As reported shares              685,033        672,590     665,064
Effect of options                   191            200         170
                             --------------------------------------
Diluted shares                  685,224        672,790     665,234
                             ======================================

Common Stock Dividend Restrictions

The income of Southern Company is derived primarily from equity in earnings of
its subsidiaries. At December 31, 1997, consolidated retained earnings included
$3.8 billion of undistributed retained earnings of the subsidiaries. Of this
amount, $2.0 billion was restricted against the payment by the subsidiary
companies of cash dividends on common stock under terms of bond indentures.

10.   CAPITAL AND PREFERRED SECURITIES

Company or subsidiary obligated mandatorily redeemable capital and preferred
securities have been issued by special purpose financing entities of Southern
Company and its subsidiaries. Substantially all the assets of these special
financing entities are junior subordinated notes issued by the related company
seeking financing. Each of these companies considers that the mechanisms and
obligations relating to the capital or preferred securities issued for its


                                       II-35


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

benefit, taken together, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by it of
the respective special financing entities' payment obligations with respect to
the capital or preferred securities. At December 31, 1997, preferred securities
of $1.1 billion and capital securities of $600 million were outstanding.
Southern Company guarantees the notes related to $600 million of capital
securities issued on its behalf.

11.   OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of other long-term debt at December 31 are as follows:

                                                1997      1996
                                            --------------------
                                               (in millions)
Obligations incurred in connection
  with the sale by public authorities
  of pollution control
  revenue bonds:
Collateralized --
    4.375% to 9.375% due
       2000-2026                              $1,154    $1,403
    Variable rates (3.85% to 5.20%
       at 1/1/98) due 2011-2025                  639       639
Non-collateralized --
    7.25% due 2003                                 1         1
    6.75% to 8.375% due 2015-2020                109       200
    5.8% due 2022                                 10        10
    Variable rates (4.50% to 5.90%
       at 1/1/98) due 2021-2037                  670       265
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                               2,583     2,518
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Capitalized lease obligations                    142       151
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term notes payable:
    4% to 11% due 1997-2000                      295       301
    5.502% to 10.56% due 2001-2037             1,741       793
    7.125% due 2047                              194         -
    Adjustable rates (5.70% to 13% at
      1/1/98) due 1997-2000                      703       240
    Adjustable rates (3.77% to
      8.0781% at 1/1/98) due
      2001-2007                                1,533        81
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                               4,466     1,415
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                         $7,191    $4,084
================================================================

   With respect to the collateralized pollution control revenue bonds, the
operating companies have authenticated and delivered to trustees a like
principal amount of first mortgage bonds as security for obligations under
installment sale or loan agreements. The principal and interest on the first
mortgage bonds will be payable only in the event of default under the
agreements.

   Sinking fund requirements and/or serial maturities through 2002 applicable to
other long-term debt are as follows: $400 million in 1998; $610 million in 1999;
$364 million in 2000; $323 million in 2001; and $939 million in 2002.

12.   LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year at December 31 is as follows:

                                                   1997    1996
                                                 ----------------
                                                  (in millions)
Bond improvement fund requirements                  $ 38   $  40
Less:
    Portion to be satisfied by certifying
      property additions                               3      4
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Cash sinking fund requirements                        35     36
First mortgage bond maturities
    and redemptions                                  349     76
Other long-term debt maturities
    (Note 11)                                        400     79
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                               $784   $191
=================================================================

    The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirements amount to 1
percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the indentures
prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to collateralize
pollution control and other obligations. The requirements may be satisfied by
depositing cash or reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal
to 166 2/3 percent of such requirements.

13.   NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988, Alabama Power and Georgia Power
maintain agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private
insurance, cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident
occurring at the companies' nuclear power plants. The act provides funds up to
$8.9 billion for public liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear
incident. Each nuclear plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of
$200 million by private insurance, with the remaining coverage provided by a
mandatory program of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a nuclear
incident, against all owners of nuclear reactors. A company could be assessed up
to $79 million per incident for each licensed reactor it operates, but not more



                                       II-36

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report

than an aggregate of $10 million per incident to be paid in a calendar year for
each reactor. Such maximum assessment, excluding any applicable state premium
taxes, for Alabama Power and Georgia Power -- based on its ownership and buyback
interests -- is $159 million and $160 million, respectively, per incident, but
not more than an aggregate of $20 million per company to be paid for each
incident in any one year.

    Alabama Power and Georgia Power are members of Nuclear Electric Insurance
Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurer established to provide property damage
insurance in an amount up to $500 million for members' nuclear generating
facilities. The members are subject to a retrospective premium assessment in the
event that losses exceed accumulated reserve funds. Alabama Power's and Georgia
Power's maximum annual assessments are limited to $8 million and $10 million,
respectively, under current primary policies.

    Additionally, both companies have policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million primary
coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

    NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant. Members can be insured against increased costs of replacement power in an
amount up to $3.5 million per week -- starting 17 weeks after the outage -- for
one year and up to $2.8 million per week for the second and third years.

    Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if
losses each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under
that policy. The maximum annual assessments under current policies for Alabama
Power and Georgia Power for excess property damage would be $10 million and $11
million, respectively. The maximum replacement power assessments are $8 million
for Alabama Power and $11 million for Georgia Power.

    For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose
of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any
remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination
and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and any further remaining
proceeds are to be paid either to the company or to its bond trustees as may be
appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

    All retrospective assessments -- whether generated for liability, property,
or replacement power -- may be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

14.   ACQUISITIONS

In 1997, Southern Energy acquired a 26 percent interest in an integrated utility
in Berlin, Germany for approximately $820 million. Southern Energy also
completed in 1997 the acquisition of a 100 percent interest in Consolidated
Electric Power Asia (CEPA) for a total net investment of some $2.1 billion. CEPA
is the largest independent power producer in Asia. The acquisition has been
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The acquisition cost
exceeded the fair market value of net assets by approximately $1.6 billion. This
amount is considered goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis
over 40 years.

    CEPA has been included in the consolidated financial statements since
January 29, 1997. The following unaudited pro forma results of operations for
the years 1997 and 1996 have been prepared assuming the acquisition of CEPA,
effective January 1, 1996. The pro forma results assume acquisition financing of
$716 million of short-term borrowings, $792 million of long-term notes, and $600
million of capital securities. Southern Company's assumed effective composite
interest rate on these obligations for each period was 6.82 percent.

    In 1995, Southern Energy acquired SWEB for approximately $1.8 billion. The
British utility distributes electricity to some 1.3 million customers. The
acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of accounting.
Goodwill of $287 million is being amortized over 40 years. SWEB has been
included in the consolidated financial statements since September 1995. The
following pro forma results of operations for the year 1995 has been prepared
assuming the acquisition of SWEB, effective January 1, 1994, and assuming 100
percent short-term debt financing.

    These unaudited pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of the
actual results that would have been realized had the acquisitions occurred on
the assumed dates, nor are they necessarily indicative of future results. Pro
forma operating results are for information purposes only and are as follows:


                                       II-37



Business Segments




                                       II-38


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1997 Annual Report



Products and Services



                                       II-39



                                       II-40










                                       II-42B




                                       II-42C




                                       II-43





                                       II-44A





                                       II-44B




                                       II-44C






                                     II-45







                                     II-46A




                                     II-46B




                                     II-46C




                                     II-47



                                     II-48A




                                     II-48B




                                     II-48C







                                     II-49






                                     II-50A






                                     II-50B






                                     II-50C








                                     II-51




                                     II-52A





                               II-52B






                                     II-52C





                                     II-53





                                     II-54A





                                     II-54B









                              ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
                               FINANCIAL SECTION






                                     II-55







MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

The management of Alabama Power Company has prepared -- and is responsible for
- -- the financial statements and related information included in this report.
These statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include amounts that
are based on the best estimates and judgments of management. Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

    The company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that the books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the company's internal audit staff. The company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of directors who are
not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial reporting and
control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with management, the
internal auditors and the independent public accountants to ensure that these
groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss auditing, internal
controls, and financial reporting matters. The internal auditors and independent
public accountants have access to the members of the audit committee at any
time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows
of Alabama Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



/s/Elmer B. Harris
   Elmer B. Harris
   President and Chief Executive Officer


/s/William B. Hutchins, III
   William B. Hutchins, III
   Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
   and Treasurer

February 11, 1998


                                       II-56



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors
of Alabama Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Alabama Power Company (an Alabama corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary
of Southern Company) as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related
statements of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements (pages 11-65 through II-82)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Alabama Power Company as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



/s/Arthur Andersen LLP
   Birmingham, Alabama
   February 11, 1998



                                       II-57

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Alabama Power Company's 1997 net income after dividends on preferred stock was
$376 million, representing a $4.4 million (1.2 percent) increase from the prior
year. This improvement can be attributed primarily to lower non-fuel related
operating expenses. Despite the mild weather experienced during 1997, retail
sales increased approximately 2 percent. However, the expected net income effect
was offset by reductions in certain industrial and commercial prices.

    In 1996, earnings were $371 million, representing a 2.9 percent increase
from the prior year. This increase was due to an increase in retail energy
sales of 2.7 percent from 1995 levels and lower net interest charges compared
to the prior year. This improvement was partially offset by a 4.4 percent
increase in operating costs.

    The return on average common equity for 1997 was 13.76 percent compared to
13.75 percent in 1996, and 13.61 percent in 1995.

Revenues

Operating revenues for 1997 were $3.1 billion, reflecting a 0.9 percent increase
from 1996. The following table summarizes the principal factors that affected
operating revenues for the past three years:

                                    Increase (Decrease)
                                      From Prior Year
                          --------------------------------------
                                1997          1996        1995
                          --------------------------------------
                                      (in thousands)
   Retail --
       Growth and price
           change           $ 33,813      $ 42,385    $ 19,164
       Weather               (22,973)      (29,660)     54,888
       Fuel cost recovery
           and other          31,353       (30,846)     35,235
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Total retail               42,193       (18,121)    109,287
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Sales for resale --
       Non-affiliates         39,354        21,529      15,380
       Affiliates            (54,825)       88,890     (37,032)
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Total sales for resale    (15,471)      110,419     (21,652)
   Other operating
       revenues                1,614         3,703       1,997
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Total operating
       revenues             $ 28,336      $ 96,001    $ 89,632
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Percent change                0.9%          3.2%        3.1%
   =============================================================

    Retail revenues of $2.5 billion in 1997 increased $42 million (1.7 percent)
from the prior year, compared with a decrease of $18 million (0.7 percent) in
1996. Fuel revenues increased in 1997 due to slightly higher generation and
higher fuel costs. This was the primary reason for the increase in 1997 retail
revenues over 1996. Lower fuel cost recovery was the primary reason for the
decrease in 1996 retail revenues as compared to 1995.  Fuel revenues generally
represent the direct recovery of fuel expense, including the fuel component of
purchased energy, and therefore have no effect on net income.

    Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area under
long-term contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity revenues
reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the
contracts. Energy is generally sold at variable cost. These capacity


                                       II-58


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

and energy components were:

                          1997           1996           1995
                  -------------------------------------------
                                (in thousands)

   Capacity           $136,248       $150,797       $157,119
   Energy              134,498        107,996         83,352
   ----------------------------------------------------------
   Total              $270,746       $258,793       $240,471
   ==========================================================

    Capacity revenues from non-affiliates in 1997 decreased 9.6% compared to
1996 primarily due to a one-time unit power sales adjustment in 1997. Capacity
revenues from non-affiliates were relatively constant in 1996 and 1995.

    Kilowatt-hour (KWH) sales for 1997 and the percent change by year were as
follows:

                          KWH             Percent Change
                      ----------- -------------------------------
                        1997       1997       1996       1995
                      -------------------------------- ----------
                      (millions)

Residential              14,336    (1.8)%      1.5%       9.1%
Commercial*              11,330     3.9        8.6        4.1
Industrial*              20,728     3.6        0.7        2.0
Other                       181    (6.3)       3.1        0.5
                      ----------
Total retail             46,575     1.9        2.7        4.7
Sales for resale -
   Non-affiliates        11,894    25.3       18.0       18.8
   Affiliates             8,993   (12.6)      53.5      (20.5)
                      ----------
Total                    67,462     3.0%      10.5%       2.6%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
*The KWH sales for 1996 reflect a reclassification of approximately 200
customers from industrial to commercial, which resulted in a shift of 473
million KWH. Absent the reclassification, the percentage change in KWH sales for
commercial and industrial would have been 3.9% and 3.1%, respectively.

    The increases in 1997 and 1996 retail energy sales were primarily due to the
strength of business and economic conditions in the company's service area.
Residential energy sales experienced a decline as a result of milder than normal
weather in 1997, compared to relatively normal weather in 1996. Assuming normal
weather, sales to retail customers are projected to grow approximately 2.3
percent annually on average during 1998 through 2003.

Expenses

Total operating expenses of $2.5 billion for 1997 were up $18 million or 0.7
percent compared with the prior year. This increase was primarily due to a $19
million increase in fuel costs and a $10 million increase in depreciation and
amortization expense. These increases were somewhat offset by a $16 million
decrease in maintenance expenses.

    Total operating expenses of $2.5 billion for 1996 were up $105 million or
4.4 percent compared with 1995. The major components of this increase include
$85 million in fuel costs, $15 million in maintenance expense, and $17 million
in depreciation and amortization offset by a decrease in purchased power of $15
million.

    Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the company. The mix of
fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by system
load, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of hydro and nuclear
generating units. The amount and sources of generation and the average cost of
fuel per net KWH generated were as follows:

                                    --------------------------
                                     1997     1996      1995
                                    --------------------------
Total generation
    (billions of KWHs)                 65       65        58
Sources of generation
    (percent) --
       Coal                            72       72        73
       Nuclear                         20       20        19
       Hydro                            8        8         8
Average cost of fuel per net
    KWH generated
      (cents) --
        Coal                         1.73     1.71      1.71
        Nuclear                      0.54     0.50      0.50
Total                                1.49     1.46      1.48
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Note:  Oil & Gas comprise less than 1% of generation.

    Fuel expense increased in 1997 by $19 million or 2.2 percent. This increase
can be attributed to slightly higher generation and fuel costs. Fuel expense
increased in 1996 by $85 million or 10.8 percent. This increase can be
attributed to higher generation.

    Purchased  power consists  primarily of purchases from the affiliates of the
Southern electric system. Purchased power transactions among the company and its


                                       II-59

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

affiliates will vary from period to period depending on demand, the
availability, and the variable production cost of generating resources at each
company. Total KWH purchases increased 12.4 percent from the prior year.

    The 6.1 percent decrease in maintenance expenses in 1997 is attributable
primarily to a decrease in distribution expenses. The increase in maintenance
expenses for 1996 is due to increased nuclear expenses, primarily outage related
accruals.

    Depreciation and amortization expense increased 3.2 percent in 1997 and 5.6
percent in 1996. These increases reflect additions to utility plant.

    Total net interest and other charges increased $25.4 million (11.2 percent)
in 1997 primarily due to an increase in company obligated mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities outstanding. This increase was offset by a $12 million
(45.2 percent) decrease in dividends on preferred stock. The decline in net
interest and other charges in 1996 by $11 million (4.5 percent) was due
primarily to a charge of $10 million in 1995 to the amortization of debt
discount, premium, and expense net, pursuant to an Alabama Public Service
Commission (APSC) order. See Note 3 to the financial statements under "Retail
Rate Adjustment Procedures" for additional details.

Effects of Inflation

The company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an economic loss
because the company is recovering its costs of investments in dollars that have
less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in
recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the company because of
the large investment in long-lived utility plant. Conventional accounting for
historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations, such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from energy sales growth to a less regulated more
competitive environment.

    The company currently operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to customers within its traditional service area located in the
state of Alabama. Prices for electricity provided by the company to retail
customers are set by the APSC under cost-based regulatory principles.

    Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in electric sales,
which are subject to a number of factors. Traditionally, these factors have
included weather, competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities,
energy conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the
rate of economic growth in the company's service area. However, the Energy
Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) is having a dramatic effect on the future of the
electric utility industry. The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency,
alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric utilities. The
company is positioning the business to meet the challenge of this major change
in the traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy Act allows
independent power producers (IPPs) to access a utility's transmission network in
order to sell electricity to other utilities. This enhances the incentive for
IPPs to build cogeneration plants for a utility's large industrial and
commercial customers and sell excess energy generation to other utilities. Also,
electricity sales for resale rates are being driven down by wholesale
transmission access and numerous potential new energy suppliers, including power
marketers and brokers. The company is aggressively working to maintain and
expand its share of wholesale business in the Southeastern power markets.

   Although the Energy Act does not permit retail customer access, it was a
major catalyst for the current restructuring and consolidation taking place
within the utility industry. Numerous federal and state initiatives are in
varying stages to promote wholesale and retail competition. Among other things,
these initiatives allow customers to choose their electricity provider. As these
initiatives materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically


                                       II-60

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

change. Some states have approved initiatives that result in a separation of the
ownership and/or operation of generating facilities from the ownership and/or
operation of transmission and distribution facilities. While various
restructuring and competition initiatives have been or are being discussed in
Alabama, Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi, none have been enacted to date.
Enactment would require numerous issues to be resolved, including significant
ones relating to transmission pricing and recovery of any stranded investments.
The inability of the company to recover its investments, including the
regulatory assets described in Note 1 to the financial statements, could have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition of the company. The company
is attempting to minimize or reduce stranded cost exposure.

    Continuing to be a low-cost producer could provide opportunities to increase
market share and profitability in markets that evolve with changing regulation.
Conversely, unless the company remains a low-cost producer and provides quality
service, the company's retail energy sales growth could be limited, and this
could significantly erode earnings.

    Rates to retail customers served by the company are regulated by the APSC.
Rates for the company can be adjusted periodically within certain limitations
based on earned retail rate of return compared with an allowed return. In June
1995, the APSC issued an order granting the company's request for gradual
adjustments to move toward parity among customer classes. This order also calls
for a moratorium on any periodic retail rate increases (but not decreases) until
2001.

    In December 1995, the APSC issued an order authorizing the company to reduce
balance sheet items -- such as plant and deferred charges -- at any time the
company's actual base rate revenues exceed the budgeted revenues. In April 1997,
the APSC issued an additional order authorizing the company to reduce balance
sheet asset items. This order authorizes the reduction of such items up to an
amount equal to five times the total estimated annual revenue reduction
resulting from future rate reductions initiated by the company. See Note 3 to
the financial statements for information about this and other matters.

    The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has questioned certain
of the current accounting practices of the electric utility industry --including
the company -- regarding the recognition, measurement, and classification of
decommissioning costs for nuclear generating facilities in the financial
statements. In response to these questions, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) has decided to review the accounting for liabilities related to
closure and removal of long-lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning. If
the FASB issues new accounting rules, the estimated costs of closing and
removing the company's nuclear and other facilities may be required to be
recorded as liabilities in the Balance Sheets. Also, the annual provisions for
such costs could change. Because of the company's current ability to recover
closure and removal costs through rates, these changes would not have a
significant adverse effect on results of operations. See Note 1 to the financial
statements under "Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning" for additional
information.

    The company is heavily dependent upon complex computer systems for all
phases of its operations. The year 2000 issue -- common to most corporations
- --concerns the inability of certain software and databases to properly recognize
date sensitive information related to the year 2000 and thereafter. This problem
could result in a material disruption to the company's operations, if not
corrected. The company has assessed and developed a detailed strategy to prevent
or at least minimize problems related to the year 2000 issue. In 1997 resources
were committed and implementation began to modify the affected information
systems. Total costs related to the project are estimated to be approximately
$26 million, of which $2.1 million was spent in 1997. The remaining costs will
be expensed primarily in 1998. Implementation is currently on schedule.
Although, the degree of success of this project cannot be determined at this
time, management believes there will be no significant effect on the company's
operations.

    The company is involved in various matters being litigated. See Note 3 to
the financial statements for information regarding material issues that could
possibly affect future earnings.

    Compliance costs related to current and future environmental laws and
regulations could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The
Clean Air Act and other important environmental items are discussed later under
"Environmental Matters."



                                       II-61

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    The company is subject to the provisions of FASB Statement No. 71,
Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation. In the event that a
portion of the company's operations is no longer subject to these provisions,
the company would be required to write off related regulatory assets and
liabilities that are not specifically recoverable, and determine if any other
assets have been impaired. See Note 1 to the financial statements under
"Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for additional information.

Exposure to Market Risk

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the company has limited exposure to market
volatility in interest rates and prices of electricity. To mitigate residual
risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the company enters into fixed
price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale
electricity market. Realized gains and losses are recognized in the income
statement as incurred. At December 31, 1997, exposure from these activities was
not material to the company's financial position, results of operations, or cash
flows.

New Accounting Standards

The FASB has issued Statement No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, which
will be effective in 1998. This statement establishes standards for reporting
and display of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general
purpose financial statements. The objective of the statement is to report a
measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise that result from transactions
and other economic events of the period other than transactions with owners
(comprehensive income). Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all
other nonowner changes in equity. The company will adopt this statement in 1998.

    The FASB has issued Statement No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. This statement requires that a public
business enterprise report financial and descriptive information about its
reportable operating segments. Generally, financial information is required to
be reported on the basis that it is used by the chief operating decision maker
in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. This
statement also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and
services, geographic areas, and major customers. The company adopted the new
rules in 1997, and they did not have a significant impact on the company's
financial reporting. However, this conclusion may change as industry
restructuring and competitive factors influence the company's operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

The company's financial condition remained stable in 1997. This stability is the
continuation over recent years of growth in energy sales and cost control
measures combined with a significant lowering of the cost of capital, achieved
through the refinancing and/or redemption of higher-cost long-term debt and
preferred stock.

    The company had gross property additions of $451 million in 1997. The
majority of funds needed for gross property additions for the last several years
have been provided from operating activities, principally from earnings and
non-cash charges to income such as depreciation and deferred income taxes. The
Statements of Cash Flows provide additional details.

Capital Structure

The company's ratio of common equity to total capitalization -- including
short-term debt -- was 44.7 percent in 1997, compared with 45.3 percent in 1996,
and 45.0 percent in 1995.

    In January 1997, Alabama Power Capital Trust II (Trust II), of which the
company owns all of the common securities, issued $200 million of 7.60 percent
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of
Trust II are $206 million aggregate principal amount of the company's 7.60
percent junior subordinated notes due December 31, 2036.

    During 1997, the company redeemed $162.0 million of preferred stock and
reacquired an additional $22.9 million through tender offer.


                                       II-62

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    The company's current securities ratings are as follows:

                              Duff &                 Standard
                              Phelps     Moody's     & Poor's
                             ----------------------------------
   First Mortgage Bonds        AA-          A1           A+
   Company Obligated
     Mandatorily
     Redeemable
     Preferred Securities       A+          a2           A
   Preferred Stock              A+          a2           A
   ------------------------------------------------------------

Capital Requirements

Capital expenditures are estimated to be $615 million for 1998, $723 million for
1999, and $524 million for 2000. The total is $1.9 billion for the three years.
Actual capital costs may vary from this estimate because of factors such as
changes in business conditions; revised load growth projections; changes in
environmental regulations; changes in the existing nuclear plant to meet new
regulatory requirements; increasing cost of labor, equipment, and materials; and
cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to
capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

    The company will replace all six steam generators at Plant Farley at a total
cost of approximately $234 million. Additionally, the company plans to construct
and install 800 megawatts of new generating capacity and associated substation
facilities at Plant Barry. The projected capital expenditures for this project
amount to approximately $289 million.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds needed for the capital budget, approximately $320
million will be required by the end of 2000 for maturities of first mortgage
bonds. Also, the company will continue to retire higher-cost debt and preferred
stock and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions
permit.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law - significantly
impacted the operating companies of Southern Company, including Alabama Power.
Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from
fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase I compliance
began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating units of Southern Company. As
a result of Southern Company's compliance strategy, an additional 22 generating
units were brought into compliance with Phase I requirements. Phase II
compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired generating plants will be
affected.

    Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled approximately $25
million for the company.

    For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, the company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also equipment to control nitrogen oxide emissions
will be installed on additional system fossil-fired units as necessary to meet
Phase II limits. Current compliance strategy for Phase II could require total
estimated construction expenditures of approximately $33 million, of which $27
million remains to be spent.

    A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

    In July 1997, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) revised the national
ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. This revision
makes the standards significantly more stringent. Also, in October 1997, the EPA
issued a proposed regional ozone rule that --if implemented--could require
substantial further reductions in NOx emissions from fossil-fueled generating
facilities. Implementation of the standards and the proposed rule could result
in significant additional compliance costs and capital expenditures that cannot
be determined at this time.

   The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various other matters including: emission control strategies for
ozone nonattainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant
emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.


                                       II-63

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    The company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations, the company could incur costs to clean up properties. The company
conducts studies to determine the extent of any required cleanup costs and has
recognized in the financial statements costs to clean up known sites.

    Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of Southern Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

    Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect Southern Company. The impact of new legislation -- if
any -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of
applicable regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the
result of lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.

Sources of Capital

The company historically has relied on issuances of first mortgage bonds and
preferred stock, in addition to pollution control revenue bonds issued for its
benefit by public authorities, to meet its long-term external financing
requirements. Recently, the company's financings have consisted of unsecured
debt and trust preferred securities. In this regard, the company sought and
obtained stockholder approval in 1997 to amend its corporate charter eliminating
restrictions on the amounts of unsecured indebtedness it may incur. To issue
additional debt and equity securities, the company must comply with certain
earnings coverage requirements designated in its mortgage indenture and
corporate charter. The company's coverages are at a level that would permit any
necessary amount of security sales at current interest and dividend rates.

    As required by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and as ordered by the APSC,
the company has established external trust funds for nuclear decommissioning
costs. In 1994, the company also established an external trust fund for
postretirement benefits as ordered by the APSC. The cumulative effect of funding
these items over a long period will diminish internally funded capital and may
require capital from other sources. For additional information concerning
nuclear decommissioning costs, see Note 1 to the financial statements under
"Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning."

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information

The company's 1997 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements in addition
to historical information. The company cautions that there are various important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
indicated in the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no
assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors include
legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring
of the electric utility industry; the extent and timing of the entry of
additional competition in the company's markets; potential business strategies
- -- including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or internal restructuring
- --that may be pursued by Southern Company; state and federal rate regulation;
changes in or application of environmental and other laws and regulations to
which the company is subject; political, legal and economic conditions and
developments; financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts;
changes in commodity prices and interest rates; weather and other natural
phenomena; and other factors discussed in the reports--including Form
10-K--filed from time to time by the company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.


                                       II-64




                                       II-65




                                       II-66






                                       II-67






                                       II-68




                                       II-69



                                       II-70


NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
     POLICIES

General

Alabama Power Company (the company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern
Company, which is the parent company of five operating companies, a system
service company, Southern Communications Services (Southern Communications),
Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear Operating Company
(Southern Nuclear), Southern Company Energy Solutions, and other direct and
indirect subsidiaries. The operating companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia
Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah
Electric and Power Company) provide electric service in four southeastern
states. Contracts among the companies -- dealing with jointly-owned generating
facilities, interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric
power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The system service company provides,
at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and subsidiary companies.
Southern Communications provides digital wireless communications services to the
operating companies and also markets these services to the public within the
Southeast. Southern Energy designs, builds, owns and operates power production
and delivery facilities and provides a broad range of energy related services in
the United States and international markets. Southern Nuclear provides services
to Southern Company's nuclear power plants. Southern Company Energy Solutions
develops new business opportunities related to energy products and services.

    Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The company is also
subject to regulation by the FERC and the Alabama Public Service Commission
(APSC). The company follows generally accepted accounting principles and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the respective
regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates, and
the actual results may differ from those estimates.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited
to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Balance Sheets at December 31 relate to the following:

                                              1997         1996
                                         -----------------------
                                               (in thousands)
Deferred income taxes                     $ 384,549    $ 410,010
Deferred income tax credits                (327,328)    (364,792)
Premium on reacquired debt                   81,417       84,149
Department of Energy assessments             34,416       37,490
Vacation pay                                 28,783       28,369
Natural disaster reserve                    (22,416)     (20,757)
Work force reduction costs                   19,316       45,969
Other, net                                   59,726       45,521
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                     $ 258,463     $265,959
================================================================

    In the event that a portion of the company's operations is no longer subject
to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the company would be required to write
off related net regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically
recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the company would be required
to determine if any impairment to other assets exists, including plant, and
write down the assets, if impaired, to their fair value.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

The company accrues revenues for services rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period. Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The company's
electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
and the energy component of purchased power costs. Revenues are adjusted for
differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts actually recovered in
current rates.

    The company  has a  diversified  base of  customers.  No single  customer or
industry  comprises  10  percent  or more of  revenues.  In 1997,  uncollectible

                                       II-71


NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report


accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.

    Fuel expense includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear fuel and a
charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear
fuel. Total charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted to $68
million in 1997, $64 million in 1996, and $54 million in 1995. The company has a
contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that provides for the
permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which was scheduled to begin in 1998.
However, the actual year this service will begin is uncertain. Sufficient
storage capacity currently is available to permit operation into 2010 and 2013
at Plant Farley units 1 and 2, respectively.

    Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the establishment in 1993 of a
Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is to be
funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants. This
assessment will be paid over a 15- year period, which began in 1993. This fund
will be used by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. The law provides that utilities will recover
these payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense. The company
estimates its remaining liability at December 31, 1997, under this law to be
approximately $34 million. This obligation is recognized in the accompanying
Balance Sheets.

Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.3 percent in 1997 and 1996, and 3.2 percent in 1995. When property subject to
depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected cost
of decommissioning nuclear facilities and removal of other facilities.

         In 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) adopted regulations
requiring all licensees operating commercial power reactors to establish a plan
for providing, with reasonable assurance, funds for decommissioning. The company
has established external trust funds to comply with the NRC's regulations.
Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the
external trust funds over periods approved by the APSC. The NRC's minimum
external funding requirements are based on a generic estimate of the cost to
decommission the radioactive portions of a nuclear unit based on the size and
type of reactor. The company has filed plans with the NRC to ensure that -- over
time -- the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will provide the
minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC.

         Site study cost is the estimate to decommission the facility as of the
site study year, and ultimate cost is the estimate to decommission the facility
as of retirement date. The estimated costs of decommissioning -- both site study
costs and ultimate costs -- at December 31, 1997, for Plant Farley were as
follows:

    Site study basis (year)                          1993

    Decommissioning periods:
        Beginning year                               2017
        Completion year                              2029
    -----------------------------------------------------------
                                               (in millions)
    Site study costs:
        Radiated structures                        $  489
        Non-radiated structures                        89
    -----------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                          $  578
    ===========================================================
                                               (in millions)
    Ultimate costs:
        Radiated structures                        $1,504
        Non-radiated structures                       274
    -----------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                          $1,778
    ===========================================================
                                               (in millions)
    Amount expensed in 1997                        $   18
    -----------------------------------------------------------
    Accumulated provisions:
        Balance in external trust funds            $  193
        Balance in internal reserves                   44
    -----------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                          $  237
    ===========================================================

    Significant assumptions:
        Inflation rate                               4.5%
        Trust earning rate                           7.0
    -----------------------------------------------------------

    Annual provisions for nuclear decommissioning are based on an annuity method
as approved by the APSC. All of the company's decommissioning costs are approved
for ratemaking.


                                       II-72


NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary
from the above estimates because of changes in the assumed date of
decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions used
in making estimates.

Income Taxes

The company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes
and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax temporary
differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and amortized to
income over the average lives of the related property.

Allowance For Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The composite rate used to determine the amount of
allowance was 5.8 percent in 1997 and 1996, and 7.1 percent in 1995. AFUDC, net
of income tax, as a percent of net income after dividends on preferred stock was
0.8 percent in 1997, 1.1 percent in 1996 and 1.7 percent in 1995.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost. Original cost includes: materials;
labor; minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction. The cost of maintenance,
repairs and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense. The cost of replacements of property (exclusive of minor items of
property) is charged to utility plant.

Financial Instruments

The company's only financial instruments for which the carrying amount did not
approximate fair value at December 31 are as follows:

                                       Carrying         Fair
                                        Amount         Value
                                      -------------------------
                                             (in millions)

   Long-term debt:
     At December 31, 1997               $2,541         $2,638
     At December 31, 1996               $2,367         $2,420
   Preferred Securities:
     At December 31, 1997                  297            300
     At December 31, 1996                   97             94
   ------------------------------------------------------------

    The fair value for long-term debt and preferred securities was based on
either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory
when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

Natural Disaster Reserve

In September 1994, in response to a request by the company, the APSC issued an
order allowing the company to establish a Natural Disaster Reserve. Regulatory
treatment allows the company to accrue $250 thousand per month, until the
maximum accumulated provision of $32 million is attained. However, in December
1995, the APSC approved higher accruals to restore the reserve to its authorized
level whenever the balance in the reserve declines below $22.4 million.

2.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on one of the
following formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of service
and a flat-dollar benefit. The company uses the "entry age normal method with a
frozen initial liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject to
limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the pension
trusts are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities. FASB
Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the


                                       II-73

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

The company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Substantially all these employees may become eligible for
these benefits when they retire. Amounts funded are primarily invested in debt
and equity securities. In December 1993, the APSC issued an accounting policy
statement which requires the company to externally fund net annual
postretirement benefits.

    FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The funded status of the plans and reconciliation to amounts reflected in the
Balance Sheets at December 31 are as follows:

                                          Pension
                                   -------------------
                                       1997      1996
                                    -------------------
                                       (in millions)

Actuarial present value of
  benefit obligations: 
    Vested benefits                 $ 626     $  603 
    Non-vested benefits                22         30  
 ---------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation        648        633                
                                                                          
Additional amounts related to
  projected salary increases          165        180
- ----------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation          813        813             
Less:  
  Fair value of plan assets         1,521      1,334                     
  Unrecognized net gain              (585)      (413)                   
  Unrecognized prior service cost      43         46              
  Unrecognized transition asset       (35)       (40)            
- ----------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid asset recognized in the
  Balance Sheets                   $  131      $ 114
==========================================================

                                           Postretirement
                                             Benefits
                                        ----------------------
                                          1997       1996
                                        ----------------------
                                           (in millions)
   Actuarial present value of
      benefit obligation:
        Retirees and dependents            $135      $116
        Employees eligible to retire         24        28
        Other employees                      93        98
   -----------------------------------------------------------
   Accumulated benefit obligation           252       242
   Less:
      Fair value of plan assets             135       108
      Unrecognized net loss                   3        15
      Unrecognized transition
        obligation                           61        65
   -----------------------------------------------------------
   Accrued liability recognized
      in the Balance Sheets                $ 53      $ 54
   ===========================================================

    The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations were:

                                1997       1996      1995
                              -------------------------------

   Discount                      7.5%       7.8%      7.3%
   Annual salary increase        5.0        5.3       4.8
   Long-term return on
      plan assets                8.5        8.5       8.5
   ----------------------------------------------------------

    An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 8.8
percent for 1997, decreasing gradually to 5.5 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation as of December 31, 1997, by $21 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net retiree cost by $2 million.

    Components of the plans' net cost are shown below:

                                                  Pension
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          1997      1996       1995
                                         -----------------------------
                                                 (in millions)
   Benefits earned during
      the year                          $ 20.3   $  21.5    $  21.2
   Interest cost on projected
      benefit obligation                  58.4      59.5       54.3
   Actual (return) loss on plan
      assets                            (227.8)   (148.9)    (236.3)
   Net amortization and deferral         116.8      43.8      136.9
   -------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net pension cost (income)           $ (32.3)  $ (24.1)   $ (23.9)
 =====================================================================

                                       II-74

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report
  
         Of the above net pension income, $24.8 million in 1997, $20.3 million
in 1996, and $17.1 million in 1995 were recorded as credits to operating
expenses, and the remainder was recorded as credits to construction and other
accounts.

                                             Postretirement
                                                Benefits
                                         --------------------
                                          1997   1996   1995
                                         ------------- ------
                                              (in millions)

Benefits earned during the year           $  4   $  5   $  7
Interest cost on accumulated
   benefit obligation                       18     17     18
Amortization of transition
   obligation                                4      4      7
Actual (return) loss on plan
   assets                                  (14)    (7)   (10)
Net amortization and deferral                7      2      5
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement costs                  $ 19   $ 21   $ 27
=============================================================

    Of the above net postretirement costs recorded, $16.3 million in 1997, $17.8
million in 1996, and $22.7 million in 1995 were charged to operating expenses
and the remainder was charged to construction and other accounts.

Work Force Reduction Programs

The company has incurred additional costs for work force reduction programs. The
costs related to these programs were $33 million, $26.7 million and $14.3
million for the years 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. In addition, certain
costs of these programs were deferred and are being amortized in accordance with
regulatory treatment. The unamortized balance of these costs was $19.3 million
at December 31, 1997.

3.   LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

Retail Rate Adjustment Procedures

In November 1982, the APSC adopted rates that provide for periodic adjustments
based upon the company's earned return on end-of-period retail common equity.
The rates also provide for adjustments to recognize the placing of new
generating facilities in retail service. Both increases and decreases have been
placed into effect since the adoption of these rates. The rate adjustment
procedures allow a return on common equity range of 13.0 percent to 14.5 percent
and limit increases or decreases in rates to 4 percent in any calendar year.

    In June 1995, the APSC issued a rate order granting the company's request
for gradual adjustments to move toward parity among customer classes. This order
also calls for a moratorium on any periodic retail rate increases (but not
decreases) until July 2001.

    In December 1995, the APSC issued an order authorizing the company to reduce
balance sheet items -- such as plant and deferred charges -- at any time the
company's actual base rate revenues exceed the budgeted revenues. In April 1997,
the APSC issued an additional order authorizing the company to reduce balance
sheet asset items. This order authorizes the reduction of such items up to an
amount equal to five times the total estimated annual revenue reduction
resulting from future rate reductions initiated by the company.

    The ratemaking procedures will remain in effect until the APSC votes to
modify or discontinue them.

Appliance Warranty Litigation

In 1996, legal actions against the company were filed in several counties in
Alabama charging the company with fraud and non-compliance with regulatory
statutes relating to the offer, sale, and financing of "extended service
contracts" in connection with the sale of electric appliances. Some of these
suits were filed as class actions, while others were filed on behalf of multiple
individual plaintiffs. The plaintiffs seek damages for an unspecified amount.
The company has offered extended service agreements to its customers since
January 1984, and approximately 175,000 extended service agreements could be
involved in these proceedings. The final outcome of these cases cannot now be
determined.

FERC Reviews Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the operating companies' wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar contracts.

    In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC


                                       II-75



NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

    In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on
substantially the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a
FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to
meet its burden of proof, and therefore, no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter is pending before the FERC.

    If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all of the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings, as
well as certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in determining
return on common equity, and if refunds were ordered, the amount of refunds
could range up to approximately $194 million at December 31, 1997 for Southern
Company, of which the company's portion would be approximately $95 million.
Although management believes that rates are not excessive and that refunds are
not justified, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Tax Litigation

In August 1997, Southern Company and the Internal Revenue Service entered into a
settlement agreement related to tax issues for the years 1984 through 1987. The
agreement is subject to the review and approval by the Joint Congressional
Committee on Taxation. If approved by the Joint Committee, the agreement would
resolve all issues in the case for the years before the U. S. Tax Court,
resulting in a refund to the company of approximately $22 million. This amount
includes interest of $14 million. The tax litigation was related to a timing
issue as to when taxes should have been paid; therefore, only the interest
portion will affect future income.

4.   CAPITAL BUDGET

The company's capital expenditures are currently estimated to total $615 million
in 1998, $723 million in 1999, and $524 million in 2000. The capital budget is
subject to periodic review and revision, and actual capital cost incurred may
vary from the above estimates because of numerous factors. These factors
include: changes in business conditions; revised load growth projections;
changes in environmental regulations; changes in the existing nuclear plant to
meet new regulatory requirements; increasing costs of labor, equipment, and
materials; and cost of capital.

    The company will replace all six steam generators at Plant Farley at a total
cost of approximately $234 million. Additionally, the company plans to construct
and install 800 megawatts of new generating capacity and associated substation
facilities at Plant Barry. The projected capital expenditures for this project
amount to approximately $289 million.

    In addition, significant construction will continue related to transmission
and distribution facilities and the upgrading of generating plants.

5.   FINANCING, INVESTMENT, AND
     COMMITMENTS

General

To the extent possible, the company's construction program is expected to be
financed primarily from internal sources. Short-term debt is often utilized and
the amounts available are discussed below. The company may issue additional
long-term debt and preferred securities for debt maturities, redeeming
higher-cost securities, and meeting additional capital requirements.

Financing

The ability of the company to finance its capital budget depends on the amount
of funds generated internally and the funds it can raise by external financing.
The company historically has relied on issuances of first mortgage bonds and
preferred stock, in addition to pollution control revenue bonds issued for its
benefit by public authorities, to meet its long-term external financing
requirements. Recently, the company's financings have consisted of unsecured
debt and trust preferred securities. In this regard, the company sought and
obtained stockholder approval in 1997 to amend its corporate charter eliminating
restrictions on the amounts of unsecured indebtedness it may incur. In order to
issue additional debt and equity securities, the company must comply with


                                       II-76

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

certain earnings coverage requirements designated in its mortgage indenture and
corporate charter. The most restrictive of these provisions requires, for the
issuance of additional first mortgage bonds, that before-income-tax earnings, as
defined, cover pro forma annual interest charges on outstanding first mortgage
bonds at least twice; and for the issuance of additional preferred stock, that
gross income available for interest cover pro forma annual interest charges and
preferred stock dividends at least one and one-half times. The company's
coverages are at a level that would permit any necessary amount of security
sales at current interest and dividend rates.

Bank Credit Arrangements

The company, along with Georgia Power Company, has entered into agreements with
several banks outside the service area to provide $300 million of revolving
credit to the companies through June 30, 1999. To provide liquidity support for
commercial paper programs, the company and Georgia Power Company have exclusive
right to $135 million and $165 million, respectively, of the available credit.
However, the allocations can be changed among the borrowers by notifying the
respective banks. The companies have the option of converting the short-term
borrowings into term loans, payable in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the
first installment due at the end of the first calendar quarter after the
applicable termination date or at an earlier date at the companies' option. In
addition, these agreements require payment of commitment fees based on the
unused portions of the commitments or the maintenance of compensating balances
with the banks.

    Additionally, the company maintains committed lines of credit in the amount
of $679 million (including $208 million of such lines under which borrowings may
be made only to fund purchase obligations relating to variable rate pollution
control bonds) which expire at various times during 1998 and, in certain cases,
provide for average annual compensating balances. Because the arrangements are
based on an average balance, the company does not consider any of its cash
balances to be restricted as of any specific date. Moreover, the company borrows
from time to time pursuant to arrangements with banks for uncommitted lines of
credit.

    At December 31, 1997, the company had regulatory approval to have
outstanding up to $750 million of short-term borrowings.

Assets Subject to Lien

The company's mortgage, as amended and supplemented, securing the first mortgage
bonds issued by the company, constitutes a direct lien on substantially all of
the company's fixed property and franchises.

Fuel Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
company has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of
fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
price escalations, minimum purchase levels and other financial commitments.
Total estimated long-term obligations at December 31, 1997, were as follows:
 
Year                                              Amounts     
- ----                                        -----------------
                                               (in millions)
1998                                              $869
1999                                               632
2000                                               388
2001                                               377
2002                                               317
2003-2013                                        2,538
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Total commitments                               $5,121
=============================================================

Operating Leases

The company has entered into coal rail car rental agreements with various terms
and expiration dates. At December 31, 1997, estimated minimum rental commitments
for noncancellable operating leases were as follows:


Year                                              Amounts     
- ----                                        -----------------
                                               (in millions)
1998                                              $5.6
1999                                               5.6
2000                                               5.6
2001                                               5.6
2002                                               5.6
2003-2017                                         55.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total minimum payments                           $83.5
==================================================================

6.   JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

The company and Georgia Power Company own equally all of the outstanding capital
stock of Southern Electric Generating Company (SEGCO), which owns electric


                                       II-77


NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020 megawatts, together with
associated transmission facilities. The capacity of these units is sold equally
to the company and Georgia Power Company under a contract which, in substance,
requires payments sufficient to provide for the operating expenses, taxes,
interest expense and a return on equity, whether or not SEGCO has any capacity
and energy available. The company's share of expenses totaled $73 million in
1997, $75 million in 1996 and $71 million in 1995, and is included in "Purchased
power from affiliates" in the Statements of Income.

    In addition, the company has guaranteed unconditionally the obligation of
SEGCO under an installment sale agreement for the purchase of certain pollution
control facilities at SEGCO's generating units, pursuant to which $24.5 million
principal amount of pollution control revenue bonds are outstanding. Georgia
Power Company has agreed to reimburse the company for the pro rata portion of
such obligation corresponding to its then proportionate ownership of stock of
SEGCO if the company is called upon to make such payment under its guaranty.

    At December 31, 1997, the capitalization of SEGCO consisted of $50 million
of equity and $72 million of long-term debt on which the annual interest
requirement is $4.5 million. SEGCO paid dividends totaling $10.6 million in
1997, $10.1 million in 1996, and $7.6 million in 1995, of which one-half of each
was paid to the company. SEGCO's net income was $8.5 million, $7.7 million, and
$8.1 million for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

    The company's percentage ownership and investment in jointly-owned
generating plants at December 31, 1997, follows:

                             Total
                            Megawatt         Company
     Facility (Type)        Capacity        Ownership
   -------------------    ------------    -------------

   Greene County               500            60.00%    (1)
      (coal)
   Plant Miller
      Units 1 and 2          1,320            91.84%    (2)
      (coal)
   =========================================================
(1)  Jointly owned with an affiliate, Mississippi Power Company.
(2)  Jointly owned with Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc.


                             Company         Accumulated
        Facility           Investment        Depreciation
   -------------------    --------------    ---------------
                                    (in millions)
    
Greene County                $  93           $  40
Plant Miller
  Units 1 and 2                717             311
- ------------------------------------------------------------

7.   LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

General

The company and the operating affiliates of Southern Company have entered into
long-term contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain
non-affiliated utilities located outside the system's service area. These
agreements -- expiring at various dates discussed below -- are firm and pertain
to capacity related to specific generating units. Because the energy is
generally sold at cost under these agreements, profitability is primarily
affected by revenues from capacity sales. The company's capacity revenues
amounted to $136 million in 1997, $151 million in 1996, and $157 million in
1995.

    Unit power from Plant Miller is being sold to Florida Power Corporation
(FPC), Florida Power & Light Company (FP&L), Jacksonville Electric Authority
(JEA) and the City of Tallahassee, Florida. Under these agreements,
approximately 1,200 megawatts of capacity is scheduled to be sold through 1999.
Thereafter, these sales will remain at that approximate level -- unless reduced
by FP&L, FPC, and JEA for the periods after 1999 with a minimum of three years
notice -- until the expiration of the contracts in 2010.

Alabama Municipal Electric Authority (AMEA) Capacity Contracts

In August 1986, the company entered into a firm power purchase contract with
AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of capacity (to a maximum 100
megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing September 1, 1986 (1986
Contract). In October 1991, the company entered into a second firm power
purchase contract with AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of additional
capacity (to a maximum 80 megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing October
1, 1991 (1991 Contract). In both contracts the power will be sold to AMEA for
its member municipalities that previously were served directly by the company as
wholesale customers. Under the terms of the contracts, the company received


                                       II-78

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

payments from AMEA representing the net present value of the revenues associated
with the respective capacity entitlements, discounted at effective annual rates
of 9.96 percent and 11.19 percent for the 1986 and 1991 contracts, respectively.
These payments are being recognized as operating revenues and the discounts are
being amortized to other interest expense as scheduled capacity is made
available over the terms of the contracts.

    In order to secure AMEA's advance payments and the company's performance
obligation under the contracts, the company issued and delivered to an escrow
agent first mortgage bonds representing the maximum amount of liquidated damages
payable by the company in the event of a default under the contracts. No
principal or interest is payable on such bonds unless and until a default by the
company occurs. As the liquidated damages decline under the contracts, a portion
of the bonds equal to the decreases are returned to the company. At December 31,
1997, $113.8 million of such bonds was held by the escrow agent under the
contracts.

8.   INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1997, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were
$385 million and $327 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to
tax benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable
to capitalized AFUDC. These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes
previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.

    Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:

                                       1997         1996         1995
                                    ------------------------------------
                                          (in thousands)
Total provision for income
taxes:
Federal--
  Currently payable                $197,159     $172,911      $166,105
  Deferred--
     current year                    32,884       (6,309)       43,493
     reversal of prior years        (44,300)      18,948       (15,817)
  Deferred investment tax        
     credits                              -            -           (75)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    185,743      185,550       193,706
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
State--
   Currently payable                 23,147       16,212        18,108
   Deferred--
     current year                     1,409          697         5,117
     reversal of prior years         (2,422)       3,249           (91)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     22,134       20,158        23,134
Total                               207,877      205,708       216,840
Less income taxes credited
   to other income                  (12,351)     (22,400)      (14,142)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes
   charged operations              $220,228     $228,108      $230,982
=========================================================================
 
    The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:


                                              1997      1996
                                            -------------------
                                                 (in millions)
Deferred tax liabilities:                       
   Accelerated depreciation                  $  847        $  816
   Property basis differences                   463           466
   Premium on reacquired debt                    30            31
   Other                                         31            51
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                         1,371         1,364
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
Capacity prepayments                             31            34
Other deferred costs                             33            27
Postretirement benefits                          18            21
Unbilled revenue                                 16            15
Other                                            66            54
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           164           151
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                  1,207         1,213
Portion included in current assets
 (liabilities), net                             (15)          (35)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
 Accumulated deferred income taxes
   in the Balance Sheets                     $1,192        $1,178
===================================================================



                                       II-79


NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $11 million in 1997 and 1996, and $12 million in 1995. At December
31, 1997, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes
payable had been utilized.

    A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                      1997     1996     1995
                                     --------------------------
 Federal statutory rate               35.0%    35.0%    35.0%
 State income tax,
   net of federal deduction            2.4      2.2      2.5
 Non-deductible book
   depreciation                        1.5      1.5      1.6
 Differences in prior years'
   deferred and current tax rates     (2.3)    (1.6)    (1.8)
 Other                                (1.9)    (3.0)    (1.4)
 --------------------------------------------------------------
 Effective income tax rate            34.7%    34.1%    35.9%
 ==============================================================

    Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return. Under a
joint consolidated income tax agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred
tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the
parent company are allocated to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable
income to total consolidated taxable income.

9.   COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY
     REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES

In January 1996, Alabama Power Capital Trust I (Trust I), of which the company
owns all of the common securities, issued $97 million of 7.375 percent
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of
Trust I are $100 million aggregate principal amount of the company's 7.375 
percent junior subordinated notes due March 31, 2026.

    In January 1997, Alabama Power Capital Trust II (Trust II), of which the
company also owns all of the common securities, issued $200 million of 7.60
percent mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the
assets of Trust II are $206 million aggregate principal amount of the company's
7.60 percent junior subordinated notes due December 31, 2036.

10.  OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of other long-term debt at December 31 are as follows:

                                          1997           1996
                                   --------------------------
                                        (in thousands)
   Obligations incurred in
     connection with the
     sale of pollution control
     revenue bonds by public
     authorities-
       Collateralized -
          5.5% to 6.5 % due
            2023-2024                 $223,040      $223,040
          Variable rates (4.1%
          to 4.8% at 1/1/98)
          due 2015-2017                 89,800        89,800
    Non-collateralized -
          7.25% due 2003                 1,000         1,000
          5.8% due 2022                  9,800         9,800
          Variable rates (4.50%
          to 5.9% at 1/1/98)
          due 2021 - 2022              217,500       152,500
- -------------------------------------------------------------
                                       541,140       476,140
Capitalized lease obligations            7,105         8,056
Long-term senior notes -
  7.125% due 2047                      193,800             -
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                 $742,045      $484,196
=============================================================

    Pollution control obligations represent installment purchases of pollution
control facilities financed by funds derived from sales by public authorities of
revenue bonds. The company is required to make payments sufficient for the
authorities to meet principal and interest requirements of such bonds. With
respect to $312.8 million of such pollution control obligations, the company has
authenticated and delivered to the trustees a like principal amount of first
mortgage bonds as security for its obligations under the installment purchase
agreements. No principal or interest on these first mortgage bonds is payable
unless and until a default occurs on the installment purchase agreements.

   The estimated aggregate annual maturities of other long-term debt through
2001 are as follows: $1.0 million in 1998, $1.2 million in 1999, $1.1 million in
2000, $1.0 million in 2001 and $1.1 million in 2002.


                                       II-80

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

11.   SECURITIES DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt and preferred stock due within one year at
December 31 is as follows:

                                               1997        1996
                                        ------------------------
                                                (in thousands)
    Bond improvement fund
       requirements                         $18,450    $ 19,410
    First mortgage bond maturities
       and redemptions                       55,895         391
    Other long-term debt maturities
       (Note 10)                                991         952
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Total long-term debt due within
       one year                              75,336      20,753
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Preferred stock to be reacquired              -     100,000
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                   $75,336    $120,753
    ============================================================

    The annual first mortgage bond improvement fund requirement is 1 percent
of the aggregate principal amount of bonds of each series authenticated, so long
as a portion of that series is outstanding, and may be satisfied by the deposit
of cash and/or reacquired bonds, the certification of unfunded property
additions or a combination thereof. The 1998 requirement of $18.5 million was
satisfied by the deposit of cash in 1998, all of which was used for the
redemption of outstanding first mortgage bonds. Also in early 1998, the company
redeemed $5.9 million first mortgage bonds and retired $50 million first
mortgage bonds. Scheduled maturities amount to $991 thousand in connection with
capitalized office building leases and a street light lease.

12.   NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988 (Act), the company maintains
agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private insurance,
cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident occurring at Plant
Farley. The Act provides funds up to $8.9 billion for public liability claims
that could arise from a single nuclear incident. Plant Farley is insured against
this liability to a maximum of $200 million by private insurance, with the
remaining coverage provided by a mandatory program of deferred premiums which
could be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against all owners of nuclear
reactors. The company could be assessed up to $79 million per incident for each
licensed reactor it operates but not more than an aggregate of $10 million per
incident to be paid in a calendar year for each reactor. Such maximum
assessment, excluding any applicable state premium taxes, for the company is
$159 million per incident but not more than an aggregate of $20 million to be
paid for each incident in any one year.

    The company is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a
mutual insurer established to provide property damage insurance in an amount up
to $500 million for members' nuclear generating facilities. The members are
subject to a retrospective premium assessment in the event that losses exceed
accumulated reserve funds. The company's maximum annual assessment per incident
is limited to $8 million under the current policy.

    Additionally, the company has policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million primary
coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

    NEIL also covers the additional cost that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant. Members can be insured against increased cost of replacement power in an
amount up to $3.5 million per week (starting 17 weeks after the outage) for one
year and up to $2.8 million per week for the second and third years.

    Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if
losses each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under
that policy. The maximum annual assessments per incident under current policies
for the company would be $10 million for excess property damage and $8 million
for replacement power.

    For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose
of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any
remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination
and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and any further remaining
proceeds are to be paid either to the company or to its bond trustees as may be
appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

                                       II-81

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property
or replacement power may be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

13.   COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND
      RESTRICTIONS

The company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various common stock
dividend restrictions that remain in effect as long as the bonds are
outstanding. At December 31, 1997, retained earnings of $796 million were
restricted against the payment of cash dividends on common stock under terms of
the mortgage indenture.

14.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
      (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1997 and 1996 are as follows:
                                                     Net Income
                                                       After
                                                     Dividends
       Quarter            Operating    Operating    on Preferred
        Ended             Revenues      Income         Stock
 -------------------    -----------------------------------------
                                     (in thousands)

 March 1997                $704,768     $123,455    $   57,807
 June 1997                  728,089      125,750        63,137
 September 1997             962,446      249,487       191,800
 December 1997              753,808      128,511        63,195

 March 1996                $732,809     $142,052    $   73,159
 June 1996                  779,587      151,673        95,778
 September 1996             913,308      222,523       152,589
 December 1996              695,071      100,390        49,964
 ----------------------------------------------------------------
The company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.


                                       II-82





                                       II-83




                                       II-84A



                                       II-84B




                                       II-84C



                                      II-85




                                       II-86A






                                       II-86B



                                       II-86C






                                      II-87






                                     II-88A




                                     II-88B










                                                            II-89



                                     II-90A










                                     II-90C





                                     II-91





                                     II-92A





                                     II-92B




                                     II-92C






                                     II-93




                                     II-94A





                                     II-94B





                                     II-94C



                                              II-95






                                     II-96









                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

                               FINANCIAL SECTION


                                     II-97







MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

The management of Georgia Power Company has prepared this annual report and is
responsible for the financial statements and related information. These
statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances, and necessarily include amounts
that are based on the best estimates and judgments of management. Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

    The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that the books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls based upon the recognition that the cost of the
system should not exceed its benefits. The Company believes that its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff. The Company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, which is composed of four
directors who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's
financial reporting and control functions. At least three times a year this
committee meets with management, the internal auditors, and the independent
public accountants to ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations
and to discuss auditing, internal control and financial reporting matters. The
internal auditors and the independent public accountants have access to the
members of the audit committee at any time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted with a high standard of
business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows
of Georgia Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.


/s/H. Allen Franklin
   H. Allen Franklin
   President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/Warren Y. Jobe
   Warren Y. Jobe
   Executive Vice President, Treasurer and
   Chief Financial Officer

February 11, 1998


                                       II-98



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors
of Georgia Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Georgia Power Company (a Georgia corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of
Southern Company) as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related statements
of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements (pages 11-108 through II-128)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Georgia Power Company as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.





/s/Arthur Andersen LLP
   Atlanta, Georgia
   February 11, 1998


                                       II-99


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Georgia Power Company's 1997 earnings totaled $594 million, representing a $14
million (2.4 percent) increase over 1996. This earnings increase resulted
primarily from lower operating expenses, lower financing costs, and increased
non-operating income, partially offset by lower retail revenues and additional
depreciation charges pursuant to a Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC)
retail accounting order discussed below. Earnings for 1996 totaled $580 million,
representing a $29 million (4.7 percent) decrease from 1995. Earnings for 1995
included an after-tax gain of approximately $12 million from the completion of
the sale of Plant Scherer Unit 4. The remaining decrease in 1996 earnings was
primarily due to increased operating and maintenance expenses, partially offset
by lower interest charges compared to the prior year.

Revenues

The following table summarizes the factors impacting operating revenues for the
1995-1997 period:

                                      Increase (Decrease)
                                        From Prior Year
                               -----------------------------------
                                  1997        1996        1995
                               -----------------------------------
Retail -                                 (in millions)
   Sales growth                   $  62        $ 58        $110
   Weather                          (74)        (25)         69
   Fuel cost recovery               (30)         28          66
   Demand-side programs              (3)        (10)         36
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total retail                        (45)         51         281
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Sales for resale -
   Non-affiliates                     1          (9)        (61)
   Affiliates                         3         (41)         16
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total sales for resale                4         (50)        (45)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Other operating revenues             10          10           7
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating revenues          $ (31)      $  11        $243
==================================================================
Percent change                     (0.7)%       0.3%        5.8%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

    Retail revenues of $4 billion in 1997 decreased $45 million (1.1 percent)
from 1996 primarily due to milder-than-normal weather, as well as commercial and
industrial customers taking advantage of load management rates. Retail revenues
in 1996 increased $51 million (1.3 percent) over the prior year primarily due
to strong economic growth and an increase in sales to existing customers.

    Fuel revenues generally represent the direct recovery of fuel expense,
including the fuel component of purchased energy, and do not affect net income.
Revenues from demand-side option programs generally represent the direct
recovery of program costs. See Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Demand-Side Conservation Programs" for further information on these programs.

    Wholesale revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities increased slightly
in 1997 and were as follows:

                                 1997       1996      1995
                               -------------------------------
                                       (in millions)
Outside service area -
   Long-term contracts           $ 71       $ 84      $ 98
   Other sales                     80         37        25
Inside service area               132        161       168
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Total                            $283       $282      $291
==============================================================

    Contractual long-term sales to Florida utilities for 1997 and 1996 are down
primarily due to scheduled reductions in the amount of capacity under those
contracts. See Note 7 to the financial statements for further information
regarding these sales. Revenues from other sales outside the service area
increased in 1997 and 1996 primarily due to power marketing activities.
Wholesale revenues from customers within the service area decreased in 1997 and
1996 primarily due to a decrease in revenues under a power supply agreement with
Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC) and, in 1996, recognition of a refund to
these customers. OPC decreased its purchases of capacity by 250 megawatts each
in September 1996 and 1997 and has notified the Company of its intent to
decrease purchases of capacity by an additional 250 megawatts in September 1998
and 1999.

    Revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric
system, as well as purchases of energy, will vary from year to year depending on
demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at each company.
These transactions do not have a significant impact on earnings.


                                       II-100


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    Kilowatt-hour (KWH) sales for 1997 and the percent change by year were as
follows:

                                           Percent Change
                                     ---------------------------
                           KWH       1997       1996     1995
                         -------   -----------------------------
                       (in billions)
Residential                  17.3    (3.0)%      3.0%    10.4%
Commercial                   21.1     1.5        4.9      5.9
Industrial                   26.7     1.9        3.6      3.9
Other                         0.6     0.4        8.6      2.0
                           -------
Total retail                 65.7     0.4        3.9      6.2
                           -------
Sales for resale -
   Non-affiliates             6.8   (13.6)      19.4    (17.3)
   Affiliates                 1.7    44.6      (56.9)   (10.4)
                           -------
Total sales for resale        8.5    (6.0)      (3.0)   (15.4)
                           -------
Total sales                  74.2    (0.3)       3.0      2.8
                           =======

- ----------------------------------------------------------------

    Residential sales declined 3.0 percent while sales to commercial and
industrial customers increased slightly by 1.5 percent and 1.9 percent,
respectively. Milder-than-normal temperatures experienced in 1997 contributed to
the moderate sales. Residential, commercial and industrial energy sales growth
in 1996 reflected strong economic growth and an increase in sales to existing
customers.

Expenses

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of
fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by system
load, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of hydro and nuclear
generating units. The amount and sources of generation and the average cost of
fuel per net kilowatt-hour generated were as follows:

                                      1997     1996     1995
                                    --------------------------
Total generation
   (billions of kilowatt-hours)       66.5     63.7     64.3
Sources of generation
   (percent) --
     Coal                             74.8     74.3     73.7
     Nuclear                          21.8     22.4     22.6
     Hydro                             2.7      2.7      3.0
     Oil and gas                       0.7      0.6      0.7
Average cost of fuel per net
   kilowatt-hour generated
     (cents) --
       Coal                           1.53     1.55     1.67
       Nuclear                        0.52     0.55     0.60
       Oil and gas                       *        *        *
       Total                          1.32     1.35     1.44
- --------------------------------------------------------------

   * Not meaningful because of minimal generation from
       fuel source.

    Fuel expense increased 2.6 percent in 1997 primarily due to an increase in
generation, partially offset by a lower average cost of fuel. Fuel expense
decreased 7.3 percent in 1996 because of a decrease in generation resulting from
the timing of maintenance at nuclear plants and a lower average cost of fuel.

    Purchased power expense decreased $66 million (17.1 percent) in 1997
primarily due to decreased purchases from affiliated companies and declines in
contractual capacity buyback purchases from the co-owners of Plant Vogtle.
Purchased power expense increased $72 million (22.8 percent) in 1996 primarily
due to increased purchases from affiliated companies as a result of the timing
of maintenance at nuclear plants discussed above. The increase in 1996 was
partially offset by a decrease in energy purchases from wholesale customers
within the service area and declines in the Plant Vogtle contractual capacity
buyback purchases. Under the terms of the 1991 GPSC retail rate order, the


                                       II-101


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

declines in the Plant Vogtle contractual capacity buyback purchases were
levelized over a six-year period ending September 1997. The levelization is
reflected in the amortization of deferred Plant Vogtle costs in the Statements
of Income. See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Plant Vogtle Phase-In
Plans" for additional information.

    Other operation and maintenance (O&M) expenses, excluding the provision for
separation benefits, decreased 4.1 percent in 1997 primarily due to initiatives
in 1996 to reduce fossil generation materials inventory levels and an adjustment
in 1996 to deferred postretirement benefits to reflect changes in the retiree
benefits plan. Other O&M expenses increased 2.9 percent in 1996 primarily as a
result of the inventory initiatives and the adjustment to deferred
postretirement benefits discussed above, and increased costs under a three-year
retail accounting order effective January 1, 1996. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under "Retail Accounting Order" for additional information.

    Depreciation and amortization increased $140 million in 1997 and $11 million
in 1996 primarily due to accelerated depreciation of generating plant pursuant
to the retail accounting order and an increase in plant-in-service.

    The Company has deferred certain expenses and recorded a deferred return
related to Plant Vogtle under phase-in plans. The amortization of deferred Plant
Vogtle costs reflects the completion in September 1997 of the amortization of
the levelized buybacks and the Plant Vogtle Unit 1 cost deferrals under a 1987
GPSC order. See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Plant Vogtle Phase-In
Plans" for information regarding the deferral and subsequent amortization of
costs related to Plant Vogtle.

    Other income increased in 1997 and decreased in 1996. The increase in 1997
is primarily due to increased tax benefits from losses of the parent company
allocated to the Company under the joint consolidated income tax agreement
between Southern Company and its subsidiaries. See Note 8 to the financial
statements for additional information. The decrease in 1996 is primarily due to
expenses in connection with the 1996 Summer Olympic games and the completion of
the sale in 1995 of Plant Scherer Unit 4, which resulted in an after-tax gain of
approximately $12 million.

    Total financing costs decreased in 1997 and 1996. These changes were
primarily due to the refinancing or retirement of securities. The Company
refinanced or retired $701 million and $510 million of securities in 1997 and
1996, respectively.  Interest and other charges increased $17 million 
(6.8 percent) and decreased $52 million (17.4 percent) in 1997 and 1996,
respectively. While the issuance of additional mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities in August 1996, January 1997 and June 1997 increased interest and
other charges by $32 million and $6 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively,
dividends on preferred stock decreased $26 million and $3 million in 1997 and
1996, respectively.

Effects of Inflation

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an economic loss
because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in dollars that have
less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in
recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of
the large investment in long-lived utility plant. Conventional accounting for
historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings. The level of future earnings depends on numerous
factors including regulatory matters and energy sales.

    The Company currently operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to customers within its traditional service area located in the
state of Georgia. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail
customers are set by the GPSC under cost-based regulatory principles.

    On January 1, 1996, the Company began operating under a three-year retail
accounting order. Under the order, the Company's earnings are evaluated against
a retail return on common equity range of 10 percent to 12.5 percent. Earnings


                                       II-102

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

in excess of 12.5 percent will be used to accelerate the amortization of
regulatory assets or depreciation of electric plant. At its option, the Company
may also recognize accelerated amortization or depreciation of assets within the
allowed return on common equity range. The Company is required to absorb cost
increases of approximately $29 million annually during the order's three-year
operation, including $14 million annually of accelerated depreciation of
electric plant. During the order's operation, the Company will not file for a
general base rate increase unless its projected retail return on common equity
falls below 10 percent. Under the approved order, on July 1, 1998 the Company
will make a general rate case filing in response to which the GPSC would be
expected either to continue provisions of the accounting order or adopt
different ones. See Note 3 to the financial statements under "Retail Accounting
Order" for additional information.

    Growth in energy sales is subject to a number of factors which traditionally
have included changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, weather,
competition, initiatives to increase sales to existing customers, and the rate
of economic growth in the Company's service area. Assuming normal weather,
retail sales growth is projected to be approximately 2 percent annually on
average during 1998 through 2000.

    Beginning in September 1997, OPC decreased its purchases of capacity under a
power supply agreement by 250 megawatts and has notified the Company of its
intent to decrease purchases of capacity by an additional 250 megawatts each in
September 1998 and 1999. As a result, the Company's capacity revenues from OPC
will decline by approximately $26 million in 1998, an additional $25 million in
1999, and an additional $18 million in 2000. Under the amended 1995 Integrated
Resource Plan approved by the GPSC in March 1997, the resources associated with
the decreased purchases in 1997 and 1998 will be used to meet the needs of the
Company's retail customers through 2004.

    The Company has entered into a 30-year purchase power agreement whereby the
Company will buy electricity from a 300 megawatt cogeneration facility, starting
in June 1998. Capacity and fixed O&M payments are projected to be $13 million in
1998, $14 million in 1999 and $14 million in 2000. The Company has also entered
into a five-year purchase power agreement scheduled to begin in June 2000 for
approximately 215 megawatts. Capacity and fixed O&M payments are estimated to be
approximately $7 million in 2000.

    The amortization of Plant Vogtle costs deferred under phase-in plans will
decline by $89 million in 1998, $12 million in 1999, and $19 million in 2000.
These costs will be fully amortized by September 1999. See Note 1 to the
financial statements under "Plant Vogtle Phase-In Plans" for additional
information.

    The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates wholesale rate
schedules and power sales contracts that the Company has with its sales for
resale customers. The FERC currently is reviewing the rate of return on common
equity included in these schedules and contracts and may require such returns to
be lowered, possibly retroactively. See Note 3 to the financial statements under
"FERC Review of Equity Returns" for additional information.

    As discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements, regulatory uncertainties
exist related to the Rocky Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric plant. On
January 14, 1998, the GPSC ordered that the Company be allowed approximately
$108 million of its $143 million investment in the plant in rate base as of
December 31, 1998. The Company has appealed the GPSC's order. If such order is
ultimately upheld, the Company will be required to record a charge to earnings
currently estimated at approximately $29 million, after taxes.

    Southern Company and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) have entered into a
settlement agreement that is subject to review and approval by the Joint
Congressional Committee on Taxation. If approved, the agreement would result in
a refund, including interest, to the Company. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under "Tax Litigation" for additional information.

    Compliance costs related to current and future environmental laws and
regulations could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The
Clean Air Act and other important environmental items are discussed later under
"Environmental Issues."

    The electric utility industry in the United States is currently undergoing a
period of dramatic change as a result of regulatory and competitive factors.


                                       II-103


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Among the primary agents of change has been the Energy Policy Act of 1992
(Energy Act). The Energy Act allows independent power producers (IPPs) to access
a utility's transmission network in order to sell electricity to other
utilities. This enhances the incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for
a utility's large industrial and commercial customers and sell electric energy
to other utilities. Also, electricity sales for resale rates are being driven
down by wholesale transmission access and numerous potential new energy
suppliers, including power marketers and brokers. The Company is aggressively
working to maintain and expand its share of wholesale sales in the Southeastern
power markets. Although the Energy Act does not permit retail customer access,
it was a major catalyst for the current restructuring and consolidation taking
place within the utility industry.

    The Company continues to compete with other electric suppliers within the
state. In Georgia, most new retail customers with at least 900 kilowatts of
connected load may choose their electricity supplier. Numerous federal and state
initiatives are in varying stages to promote wholesale and retail competition
across the nation. Among other things, these initiatives allow customers to
choose their electricity provider. As these initiatives materialize, the
structure of the utility industry could radically change. Some states have
approved initiatives that result in a separation of the ownership and/or
operation of generating facilities from the ownership and/or operation of
transmission and distribution facilities. While the GPSC has held workshops to
discuss retail competition and industry restructuring, there has been no
proposed or enacted legislation to date in Georgia. Enactment would require
numerous issues to be resolved, including significant ones relating to
transmission pricing and recovery of costs. The ability of the Company to
recover all its costs, including the regulatory assets described in Note 1 to
the financial statements, could have a material effect on the financial
condition of the Company. The Company is attempting to reduce regulatory assets
and other costs through a three-year retail accounting order. See Note 3 to the
financial statements under "Retail Accounting Order" for additional information.

    Unless the Company remains a low-cost producer and provides quality service,
the Company's retail energy sales growth could be limited as competition
increases. Conversely, continuing to be a low-cost producer could provide
opportunities to increase market share and profitability in markets that evolve
with changing regulation.

    The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to these provisions, the Company would be required to write off related
regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically recoverable, and
determine if any other assets have been impaired. See Note 1 to the financial
statements under "Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for additional information.

    The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has questioned certain
of the current accounting practices of the electric utility industry - including
the Company's - regarding the recognition, measurement, and classification of
decommissioning costs for nuclear generating facilities in the financial
statements. In response to these questions, the FASB has decided to review the
accounting for liabilities related to closure and removal of long-lived assets,
including nuclear decommissioning. If the FASB issues new accounting rules, the
estimated costs of closing and removing the Company's nuclear and other
facilities may be required to be recorded as liabilities in the Balance Sheets.
Also, the annual provisions for such costs could change. Because of the
Company's current ability to recover closure and removal costs through rates,
these changes would not have a significant adverse effect on results of
operations. See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Depreciation and
Nuclear Decommissioning" for additional information.

    The Company is heavily dependent upon complex computer systems for all
phases of its operations. The year 2000 issue -- common to most corporations --
concerns the inability of certain software and databases to properly recognize
date sensitive information related to the year 2000 and thereafter. This problem
could result in a material disruption to the Company's operations, if not
corrected. The Company has assessed and developed a detailed strategy to prevent
or at least minimize problems related to the year 2000 issue. In 1997 resources
were committed and implementation began to modify the affected information
systems. Total costs related to the project are estimated to be approximately
$33 million, of which $3 million was spent in 1997. The remaining costs will be


                                       II-104


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

expensed primarily in 1998. Implementation is currently on schedule. Although
the degree of success of this project cannot be determined at this time,
management believes there will be no significant effect on the Company's
operations.

Exposure to Market Risks

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market
volatility in interest rates and prices of electricity. To mitigate residual
risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into fixed
price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale
electricity market. Realized gains and losses are recognized in the income
statement as incurred. At December 31, 1997, exposure from these activities was
not material to the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash
flows.

New Accounting Standards

The FASB has issued Statement No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, which
will be effective in 1998. This statement establishes standards for reporting
and display of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general
purpose financial statements. The objective of the statement is to report a
measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise that result from transactions
and other economic events of the period other than transactions with owners
(comprehensive income). Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all
other nonowner changes in equity. The Company will adopt this statement in 1998.

   The FASB has issued Statement No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. This statement requires that a public
business enterprise report financial and descriptive information about its
reportable operating segments. Generally, financial information is required to
be reported on the basis that it is used by the chief operating decision maker
in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. This
statement also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and
services, geographic areas, and major customers. The Company adopted the new
rules in 1997, and they did not have a significant impact on the Company's
financial reporting. However, this conclusion may change as industry
restructuring and competitive factors influence the company's operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Plant Additions

In 1997 gross utility plant additions were $476 million. These additions were
primarily related to transmission and distribution facilities and to the
purchase of nuclear fuel. The funds needed for gross property additions are
currently provided from operations. The Statements of Cash Flows provide
additional details.

Financing Activities

In 1997, the Company continued to lower its financing costs by refinancing
higher-cost issues. New issues during 1995 through 1997 totaled $1.6 billion and
retirement or repayment of securities totaled $2.2 billion. The retirements
included the redemption of $131 million in 1995 of first mortgage bonds with the
proceeds from the Plant Scherer Unit 4 sales. Composite financing rates for
long-term debt and preferred stock for the years 1995 through 1997, as of
year-end, were as follows:

                                  1997       1996        1995
                               ---------------------------------
Composite interest rate
   on long-term debt              6.11%      6.39%       6.57%
Composite preferred
   stock dividend rate            5.18       6.34        6.73
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

The Company's current securities ratings are as follows:

                              Duff &                  Standard &
                              Phelps     Moody's        Poor's
                             ------------------------------------
First Mortgage Bonds             AA-         A1           A+
Preferred Stock                   A+         a2           A
Unsecured Bonds                   A+         A2           A
Commercial Paper                  D1+        P1           A1
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

    Subsidiaries of the Company have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities. See Note 9 to the financial statements under "Preferred Securities"
for additional information.

    In January 1998, the Company issued $145 million of 6 7/8% unsecured senior
notes due December 31, 2047. The senior notes are subordinated to all secured


                                       II-105



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

debt of the Company, including its first mortgage bonds.

Liquidity and Capital Requirements

Cash provided from operations decreased by $15 million in 1997, primarily due to
lower retail revenues.

    The Company estimates that construction expenditures for the years 1998
through 2000 will total $506 million, $561 million and $549 million,
respectively. Investments in transmission and distribution facilities,
enhancements to existing generating plants, and equipment to comply with the
provisions of the Clean Air Act are planned.

    Cash requirements for improvement fund requirements, redemptions announced,
and maturities of long-term debt and preferred stock are expected to total $693
million during 1998 through 2000.

    As a result of requirements by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the
Company has established external trust funds for the purpose of funding nuclear
decommissioning costs. For 1998 through 2000, the amount to be funded totals $24
million annually. For additional information concerning nuclear decommissioning
costs, see Note 1 to the financial statements under "Depreciation and Nuclear
Decommissioning."

Sources of Capital

The Company expects to meet future capital requirements primarily using funds
generated from operations and, if needed, by the issuance of new debt and equity
securities, term loans, and short-term borrowings. To meet short-term cash needs
and contingencies, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion of unused credit
arrangements with banks at the beginning of 1998. See Note 9 to the financial
statements under "Bank Credit Arrangements" for additional information.

    The Company historically has relied on issuances of first mortgage bonds and
preferred stock, in addition to pollution control revenue bonds issued for its
benefit by public authorities, to meet its long-term external financing
requirements. Recently, the Company's financings have consisted of unsecured
debt and trust preferred securities. In this regard, the Company sought and
obtained stockholder approval in 1997 to amend its corporate charter eliminating
restrictions on the amounts of unsecured indebtedness it may incur.

    If the Company chooses to issue first mortgage bonds or preferred stock, it
is required to meet certain coverage requirements specified in its mortgage
indenture and corporate charter. The Company's ability to satisfy all coverage
requirements is such that it could issue new first mortgage bonds and preferred
stock to provide sufficient funds for all anticipated requirements.

Environmental Issues

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- significantly
impacted the operating companies of Southern Company, including Georgia Power.
Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from
fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase I compliance
began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating units in the Southern
electric system. As a result of Southern Company's compliance strategy, an
additional 22 generating units were brought into compliance with Phase I
requirements. Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired
generating plants in the Southern electric system will be affected.

    Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
units by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
Construction expenditures for Georgia Power's Phase I compliance totaled
approximately $167 million.

    For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired units as required
to meet Phase II limits and ozone nonattainment requirements for metropolitan
Atlanta through 2000. Current compliance strategy for Phase II and ozone
nonattainment could require total estimated construction expenditures of
approximately $39 million, of which $28 million remains to be spent as of
December 31, 1997.

    A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking


                                       II-106

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

    In July 1997, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) revised the national
ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. This revision
makes the standards significantly more stringent. Also, in October 1997, the EPA
issued a proposed regional ozone rule that --if implemented--could require
substantial further reductions in NOx emissions from fossil-fueled generating
facilities. Implementation of the standards and the proposed rule could result
in significant additional compliance costs and capital expenditures that cannot
be determined at this time.

    The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various matters including: emission control strategies for ozone
nonattainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant emissions;
and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new standards will
depend on the development and implementation of applicable regulations.

    The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations, the Company could incur costs to clean up properties currently or
previously owned. The Company conducts studies to determine the extent of any
required clean-up costs and has recognized in the financial statements costs to
clean up known sites. These costs for the Company amounted to $4 million, $2
million and $8 million, in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. Additional sites
may require environmental remediation for which the Company may be liable for a
portion of or all required clean-up costs. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under "Certain Environmental Contingencies" for information regarding
the Company's potentially responsible party status at a site in Brunswick,
Georgia, and the status of sites listed on the State of Georgia's hazardous site
inventory.

    Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of the Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

    Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields and other environmental and health concerns could
significantly affect the Company. The impact of new legislation -- if any --
will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable
regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the result of
lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information

The Company's 1997 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements in addition
to historical information. The Company cautions that there are various important
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
indicated in the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no
assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors include
legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring
of the electric utility industry; the extent and timing of the entry of
additional competition in the Company's markets; potential business strategies
- -- including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or internal restructuring --
that may be pursued by Southern Company; state and federal rate regulation;
changes in or application of environmental and other laws and regulations to
which the Company is subject; political, legal and economic conditions and
developments; financial market conditions and the results of financing efforts;
changes in commodity prices and interest rates; weather and other natural
phenomena; and other factors discussed in the reports--including Form
10-K--filed from time to time by the Company with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
  
                                     II-107




                                       II-108




                                       II-109





                                       II-110





                                       II-111




                                       II-112






                                       II-113



NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

General

The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is the
parent company of five operating companies, Southern Company Services (SCS), a
system service company, Southern Communications Services (Southern
Communications), Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear
Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), Southern Company Energy Solutions, and
other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The operating companies (Alabama Power
Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company,
and Savannah Electric and Power Company) provide electric service in four
Southeastern states. Contracts among the operating companies -- dealing with
jointly owned generating facilities, interconnecting transmission lines, and the
exchange of electric power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC) or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). SCS provides,
at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and subsidiary companies.
Southern Communications provides digital wireless communications services to the
operating companies and also markets these services to the public within the
Southeast. Southern Energy designs, builds, owns, and operates power production
and delivery facilities and provides a broad range of energy related services in
the United States and international markets. Southern Nuclear provides services
to Southern Company's nuclear power plants. Southern Company Energy Solutions
develops new business opportunities related to energy products and services.

    Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to the regulatory provisions of this act. The Company is also
subject to regulation by the FERC and the Georgia Public Service Commission
(GPSC). The Company follows generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the respective
regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with GAAP requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may differ from
these estimates.

    Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the Company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited
to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Company's Balance Sheets at December 31 relate to the
following:

                                            1997       1996
                                          ---------- ---------
                                             (in millions)
                                          --------------------
Deferred income taxes                     $   688     $  754
Deferred income tax credits                  (298)      (318)
Premium on reacquired debt                    167        167
Corporate building lease                       52         51
Deferred Plant Vogtle costs                    50        171
Vacation pay                                   41         40
Postretirement benefits                        38         38
Department of Energy assessments               29         32
Deferred nuclear outage costs                  28         18
Demand-side program costs                      11         44
Other, net                                     10         (9)
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                     $   816     $  988
==============================================================

    In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer subject
to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the Company would be required to write
off related net regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically
recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be required
to determine if any impairment to other assets exists, including plant, and
write down the assets, if impaired, to their fair value.


                                       II-114




NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Revenues and Fuel Costs

The Company accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period. Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The Company's
electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
and the energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs.
Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts
actually recovered in current rates.

    The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or
industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1997, uncollectible
accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.

    Fuel expense includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear fuel and a
charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear
fuel. Total charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted to $76
million in 1997, $78 million in 1996, and $86 million in 1995. The Company has a
contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that provides for the
permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which was scheduled to begin in 1998.
However, the actual year this service will begin is uncertain. Sufficient
storage capacity currently is available to permit operation into 2003 at Plant
Hatch and into 2008 at Plant Vogtle. Activities for adding dry cask storage
capacity at Plant Hatch by as early as 1999 are in progress.

    Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the establishment in 1993 of a
Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is to be
funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants. This
fund will be used by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. The assessment will be paid over a 15-year
period, which began in 1993. The law provides that utilities will recover these
payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense. The Company -- based on
its ownership interests -- estimates its remaining liability under this law at
December 31, 1997, to be approximately $27 million. This obligation is recorded
in the accompanying Balance Sheets.

Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.1 percent in 1997 and 1996 and 3.2 percent in 1995. In addition, the Company
recorded accelerated depreciation of electric plant of $159 million in 1997, $24
million in 1996, and $6 million in 1995. The amount of such charges in the
accumulated provision for depreciation is $189 million at December 31, 1997. See
Note 3 under "Retail Accounting Order" for additional information. When property
subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course
of business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected costs
of decommissioning nuclear facilities and removal of other facilities.

    In 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) adopted regulations
requiring all licensees operating commercial nuclear power reactors to establish
a plan for providing, with reasonable assurance, funds for decommissioning. The
Company has established external trust funds to comply with the NRC's
regulations. Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being
transferred into the external trust funds over a set period of time as ordered
by the GPSC. Earnings on the trust funds are considered in determining
decommissioning expense. The NRC's minimum external funding requirements are
based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission the radioactive portions
of a nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor. The Company has filed
plans with the NRC to ensure that -- over time -- the deposits and earnings of
the external trust funds will provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by
the NRC.

    Site study cost is the estimate to decommission the facility as of the site
study year, and ultimate cost is the estimate to decommission the facility as of


                                       II-115

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

the retirement date. The estimated costs of decommissioning -- both site study
costs and ultimate costs at December 31, 1997 -- based on the Company's
ownership interests -- were as follows:

                                           Plant      Plant
                                           Hatch     Vogtle
                                        --------------------
Site study basis (year)                     1997       1997

Decommissioning periods:
   Beginning year                           2014       2027
   Completion year                          2027       2038
- ------------------------------------------------------------
                                           (in millions)
Site study costs:
   Radiated structures                      $372       $317
   Non-radiated structures                    33         44
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $405       $361
============================================================
                                           (in millions)
Ultimate costs:
   Radiated structures                      $722       $922
   Non-radiated structures                    65        129
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $787     $1,051
============================================================

                                           (in millions)
Amount expensed in 1997                    $  11     $   9

Accumulated provisions:
   Balance in external trust funds          $118     $  76
   Balance in internal reserves               23        13
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $141     $  89
============================================================

Significant assumptions:
   Inflation rate                           3.6%      3.6%
   Trust earnings rate                      6.5       6.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------

    Annual provisions for nuclear decommissioning are based on an annuity method
as approved by the GPSC. The decommissioning costs currently included in cost of
service are $320 million and $267 million for plants Hatch and Vogtle,
respectively. These amounts are based on the higher of the costs to
decommission the radioactive portions of the plants based on 1994 site studies
or the 1993 NRC minimum funding requirements. The estimated ultimate costs
associated with the amounts currently included in cost of service are $781
million and $1.1 billion for plants Hatch and Vogtle, respectively. The Company
expects the GPSC to periodically review and adjust, if necessary, the amounts
collected in rates for the anticipated cost of decommissioning.

    The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary
from the above estimates because of changes in the assumed date of
decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, changes in the assumptions used in
making estimates, changes in regulatory requirements, changes in technology, and
changes in costs of labor, materials, and equipment.

Income Taxes

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes
and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax temporary
differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and amortized to
income over the average lives of the related property.

Plant Vogtle Phase-In Plans

In 1987 and 1989, the GPSC ordered that the allowed costs of Plant Vogtle, a
two-unit nuclear facility of which Georgia Power owns 45.7 percent, be phased
into rates. Pursuant to the orders, the Company recorded a deferred return under
phase-in plans until October 1991 when the allowed investment was fully
reflected in rates. In 1991, the GPSC levelized the remaining Plant Vogtle
declining capacity buyback expenses over a six-year period. In addition, the
Company deferred certain Plant Vogtle operating expenses and financing costs
under accounting orders issued by the GPSC. These GPSC orders provide for the
recovery of deferred costs within 10 years. Costs deferred under the 1987 order
and the levelized buybacks were fully recovered as of September 1997.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. For the years 1997, 1996 and 1995, the average AFUDC rates
were 7.60 percent, 6.59 percent and 6.53 percent, respectively. AFUDC, net of
taxes, as a percentage of net income after dividends on preferred stock, was
less than 2.0 percent for 1997, 1996, and 1995.



                                       II-116


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost with the exception of Plant Vogtle,
which is stated at cost less regulatory disallowances. Original cost includes:
materials; labor; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the cost of funds used during construction. The cost of
maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to
maintenance expense. The cost of replacements of property (exclusive of minor
items of property) is charged to utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

Financial Instruments

The Company's financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not
approximate fair value at December 31 were as follows:

                                        Carrying      Fair
                                         Amount       Value
                                      ------------------------
Long-term debt:                             (in millions)
  At December 31, 1997                    $3,125      $3,170
  At December 31, 1996                     3,174       3,206
Preferred securities:
  At December 31, 1997                       689         720
  At December 31, 1996                       325         333
- --------------------------------------------------------------

    The fair values for securities were based on either closing market prices or
closing prices of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission, distribution
and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when
purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed,
non-contributory pension plan covering substantially all regular employees.
Benefits are based on one of the following formulas: years of service and final
average pay or years of service and a flat-dollar benefit. The Company uses the
"entry age normal method with a frozen initial liability" actuarial method for
funding purposes, subject to limitations under federal income tax regulations.
Amounts funded to the pension trusts are primarily invested in equity and
fixed-income securities. FASB Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for
Pensions, requires use of the "projected unit credit" actuarial method for
financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

The Company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. Qualified trusts are funded to the extent deductible
under federal income tax regulations and to the extent required by the GPSC and
the FERC. During 1997 and 1996, the Company funded $24 million and $25 million,
respectively, to the qualified trusts. Amounts funded are primarily invested in
debt and equity securities.

    FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." In October 1993, the GPSC ordered
the Company to phase in the adoption of Statement No. 106 to cost of service
over a five-year period, whereby one-fifth of the additional cost was expensed
in 1993, and the remaining additional costs were deferred. An additional
one-fifth of the costs were expensed each succeeding year until the costs were
fully reflected in cost of service in 1997. The cost deferred during the
five-year period will be amortized to expense over a 15-year period beginning in
1998.

                                       II-117


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The funded status of the plans and reconciliation to amounts reflected in the
Balance Sheets at December 31 are as follows:

                                                Pension
                                          ---------------------
                                             1997       1996
                                          ---------------------
                                             (in millions)
                                          ---------------------
Actuarial present value of
 benefit obligations:
     Vested benefits                         $  841     $  806
     Non-vested benefits                         29         52
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                  870        858
Additional amounts related
   to projected salary increases                249        314
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation                  1,119      1,172
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                  1,931      1,797
   Unrecognized net gain                       (753)      (591)
   Unrecognized prior service cost               48         56
   Unrecognized transition asset                (39)       (47)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid asset recognized in
   the Balance Sheets                        $   68     $   43
===============================================================


                                             Postretirement
                                                Benefits
                                          ---------------------
                                             1997       1996
                                          ---------------------
                                             (in millions)
Actuarial present value of
 benefit obligation:
     Retirees and dependents                   $246       $217
     Employees eligible to retire                33         29
     Other employees                            156        184
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                  435        430
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                    151        112
   Unrecognized net loss                         47         50
   Unrecognized transition
     obligation                                 139        157
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liability recognized in the             
   Balance Sheets                              $ 98       $111
===============================================================


    The weighted average rates used in actuarial calculations were:

                                   1997       1996       1995
                                  ----------------------------
Discount                           7.5%       7.8%       7.3%
Annual salary increase             5.0        5.3        4.8
Long-term return on
   Plan assets                     8.5        8.5        8.5
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

    An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
medical benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate
of 8.8 percent for 1997, decreasing gradually to 5.5 percent through the year
2005 and remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed
medical care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation as of December 31, 1997, by $43 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net postretirement cost by $4
million.

    The components of the plans' net costs are shown below:

                                               Pension
                                     ----------------------------
                                        1997      1996      1995
                                     ----------------------------
                                            (in millions)
Benefits earned during the year       $  30    $  35     $  33
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation                    82       86        78
Actual return on plan assets           (301)    (202)     (317)
Net amortization                        161       62       185
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension benefit                   $ (28)   $ (19)    $ (21)
=================================================================

    Of net pension amounts recorded, $20 million in 1997, $14 million in 1996,
and $15 million in 1995 were recorded as a reduction to operating expense, and
the remainder was recorded as a reduction to construction and other accounts.


                                       II-118



NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

                                       Postretirement Benefits
                                      -------------------------
                                        1997    1996     1995
                                      -------------------------
                                           (in millions)
Benefits earned during the year         $ 7     $ 9      $13
Interest cost on accumulated
   benefit obligation                    32      30       34
Amortization of transition
   obligation                             9       9       16
Actual return on plan assets             (8)     (6)      (8)
Net amortization                          2       3        4
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement cost                 $42     $45      $59
===============================================================

    Of the above net postretirement benefit costs recorded, $32 million in 1997,
$29 million in 1996, and $33 million in 1995 were charged to operating expenses.
In addition, $3 million in 1996 and $11 million in 1995 were deferred, and the
remainder was charged to construction and other accounts. During 1996, the
Company expensed an additional $19 million due to an adjustment to amounts
previously deferred under the GPSC order as a result of changes in the
postretirement benefit plan.

Work Force Reduction Programs

The Company has incurred costs for work force reduction programs. The costs
related to these programs were $5 million in 1997, $39 million in 1996 and $11
million in 1995. Additionally, the Company recognized $4 million in 1997, $9
million in 1996, and $3 million in 1995 for its share of costs associated with
SCS's work force reduction programs.

3. REGULATORY AND LITIGATION MATTERS

Retail Accounting Order

On February 16, 1996, the GPSC approved a three-year accounting order for the
Company. Under the order, effective January 1, 1996, the Company's earnings are
evaluated against a retail return on common equity range of 10 percent to 12.5
percent. Earnings in excess of 12.5 percent will be used to accelerate the
amortization of regulatory assets or depreciation of electric plant. At its
option, the Company may also recognize accelerated amortization or depreciation
of assets within the allowed return on common equity range. The Company is
required to absorb cost increases of approximately $29 million annually during
the order's three-year operation, including $14 million annually of accelerated
depreciation of electric plant. During the order's operation, the Company will
not file for a general base rate increase unless its projected retail return on
common equity falls below 10 percent. Under the approved order, on July 1, 1998,
the Company will make a general rate case filing in response to which the GPSC
would be expected either to continue the provisions of the accounting order or
adopt different ones.

    The Company's 1996 retail return on common equity was within the 10 percent
to 12.5 percent range. During 1997, for earnings in excess of the 12.5% retail
return, the Company recorded charges of $135 million that are presented in the
financial statements as depreciation expense of electric plant and as an
addition to the reserve for depreciation.

    In November 1996, on appeal by a consumer group, the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia, reversed the GPSC's accounting order and remanded the
matter to the GPSC. The Court found that statutory requirements applicable to
rate cases should have been, but were not, followed. The GPSC and the Company
subsequently appealed the Superior Court's decision. In October 1997, the Court
of Appeals upheld the accounting order. No appeal of that decision was filed
within the allowable time frame. The order stands as written, and this matter is
now concluded.

FERC Review of Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power, and other similar contracts.

    In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

    In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on
substantially the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a


                                       II-119


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to
meet its burden of proof, and therefore no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter remains pending before the FERC.

    If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings, as well
as certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in determining
return on common equity and if refunds were ordered, the amount of refunds could
range up to approximately $71 million at December 31, 1997. Although management
believes that rates are not excessive and that refunds are not justified, the
final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Rocky Mountain Plant Status

In its 1985 financing order, the GPSC concluded that completion of the Rocky
Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric plant in 1991, as then planned, was not
economically justifiable and reasonable and withheld authorization for the
Company to spend funds from approved securities issuances on that plant. In
1988, the Company and Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC) entered into a joint
ownership agreement for OPC to assume responsibility for the construction and
operation of the plant, as discussed in Note 6. In 1995, the plant went into
commercial operation.

    In June 1996, the GPSC initiated a review of the plant. On January 14, 1998,
the GPSC ordered that the Company be allowed approximately $108 million of its
$143 million investment in the plant in rate base as of December 31, 1998. The
Company has appealed the GPSC's order to the Superior Court of Fulton County,
Georgia. If such order is ultimately upheld, the Company will be required to
record a charge to earnings currently estimated at approximately $29 million,
after taxes. The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.
Accordingly, no provision related to the GPSC's disallowance has been recorded.

Tax Litigation

In August 1997, Southern Company and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) entered
into a settlement agreement related to tax issues for the years 1984 through
1987. The agreement is subject to the review and approval by the Joint
Congressional Committee on Taxation. If approved by the Joint Committee, the
agreement would resolve all issues in the case for the years before the U. S.
Tax Court, resulting in a refund to the Company of approximately $140 million.
This amount includes interest of $61 million. The tax litigation was related to
a timing issue as to when taxes should have been paid; therefore, only the
interest portion will affect future income. There can be no assurance that such
Joint Committee approval will be received.

Demand-Side Conservation Programs

In August 1995, the GPSC ordered the Company to discontinue its current
demand-side conservation programs by the end of 1995. Rate riders previously
approved by the GPSC for recovery of the Company's costs incurred in connection
with these programs remained in effect until January 1998 when costs deferred
were fully collected.

    Under the Retail Accounting Order approved February 16, 1996, the Company
will recognize approximately $29 million of deferred program costs over a
three-year period which will not be recovered through the riders.

Certain Environmental Contingencies

In January 1995, the Company and four other unrelated entities were notified by
the EPA that they have been designated as potentially responsible parties under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act with
respect to a site in Brunswick, Georgia. As of December 31, 1997, the Company
has recognized approximately $5 million in expenses associated with this site.
This represents the Company's agreed upon share of removal and remedial
investigation and feasibility study costs. The final outcome of this matter
cannot now be determined. However, based on the nature and extent of the
Company's activities relating to the site, management believes that the
Company's portion of any remaining remediation costs should not be material.

    In compliance with the Georgia Hazardous Site Response Act of 1993, the
State of Georgia was required to compile an inventory of all known or suspected
sites where hazardous wastes, constituents or substances have been disposed of
or released in quantities deemed reportable by the State. In developing this


                                       II-120


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

list, the State identified several hundred properties throughout the State,
including 25 sites which may require environmental remediation that were either
previously or are currently owned by the Company. The majority of these sites
are electrical power substations and power generation facilities. The Company
has remediated nine electrical substations on the list at a cost of
approximately $3 million. In addition, the Company has recognized approximately
$17 million in expenses through December 31, 1997 for the assessment of the
remaining sites on the list and the anticipated clean-up cost for 11 sites that
the Company plans to remediate. Any cost of remediating the remaining sites
cannot presently be determined until such studies are completed for each site
and the State of Georgia determines whether remediation is required. If all
listed sites were required to be remediated, the Company could incur expenses of
up to approximately $15 million in additional clean-up costs and construction
expenditures of up to approximately $65 million to develop new waste management
facilities or install additional pollution control devices.

    The accrued costs for environmental remediation obligations are not
discounted to their present value.

New Wholesale Agreement

On January 10, 1997, the Company and the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia
(MEAG) reached an agreement to enter into a new power supply relationship which
would replace the partial requirements tariff pursuant to which the Company
sells wholesale energy to MEAG and the scheduling services agreement between the
Company and MEAG. The new power supply contract was approved by FERC and was
implemented in August 1997.

Nuclear Performance Standards

In October 1989, the GPSC adopted a nuclear performance standard for the
Company's nuclear generating units under which the performance of plants Hatch
and Vogtle will be evaluated every three years. The performance standard is
based on each unit's capacity factor as compared to the average of all
comparable U.S. nuclear units operating at a capacity factor of 50 percent or
higher during the three-year period of evaluation. Depending on the performance
of the units, the Company could receive a monetary reward or penalty under the
performance standards criteria.

    The first evaluation was conducted in 1993 for performance during the
1990-92 period. The GPSC approved a performance reward of approximately $8.5
million for the Company. This reward was collected through the retail fuel cost
recovery provision and recognized in income over a 36-month period which ended
in October 1996. In January 1997, the GPSC approved a performance award of
approximately $11.7 million for performance during the 1993-95 period. This
reward is being collected through the retail fuel cost recovery provision and
recognized in income over a 36-month period that began in January 1997.

4.  COMMITMENTS

Construction Program

While the Company has no traditional baseload generating plants under
construction, the construction of one jointly owned combustion turbine peaking
unit was completed in January 1997. In addition, significant construction of
transmission and distribution facilities, and projects to upgrade and extend the
useful life of generating plants will continue. The Company currently estimates
property additions to be approximately $506 million in 1998, $561 million in
1999, and $549 million in 2000. The estimates for property additions for the
three-year period include $28 million committed to meeting the requirements of
the Clean Air Act.

    The construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and
actual construction costs may vary from estimates because of numerous factors,
including, but not limited to, changes in business conditions, load growth
estimates, environmental regulations, and regulatory requirements.

Fuel Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of
fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
price escalations, minimum purchase levels and other financial commitments.


                                       II-121


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Total estimated long-term fossil and nuclear fuel commitments at December 31,
1997 were as follows:
                                                Minimum
Year                                          Obligations
                                         ----------------------
                                             (in millions)
1998                                            $   985
1999                                                799
2000                                                777
2001                                                673
2002                                                614
2003 and beyond                                   1,635
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total minimum obligations                        $5,483
===============================================================

    Additional commitments for coal and for nuclear fuel will be required in the
future to supply the Company's fuel needs.

Purchase Power Commitments

In connection with the joint ownership arrangement for Plant Vogtle, discussed
in Note 6, the Company has made commitments to purchase portions of OPC's and
MEAG's capacity and energy from this plant. Declining commitments were in effect
during periods of up to seven years following commercial operation and ended in
1996. As discussed in Note 1, the Plant Vogtle declining capacity buyback
expense was levelized over a six-year period which ended in September 1997. In
addition, the Company has commitments regarding a portion of a 5 percent
interest in Plant Vogtle owned by MEAG that are in effect until the latter of
the retirement of the plant or the latest stated maturity date of MEAG's bonds
issued to finance such ownership interest. The payments for capacity are
required whether or not any capacity is available. The energy cost is a function
of each unit's variable operating costs. Except as noted below, the cost of such
capacity and energy is included in purchased power from non-affiliates in the
Company's Statements of Income. Capacity payments totaled $54 million, $68
million, and $76 million in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.
The current projected Plant Vogtle capacity payments are:



Year                                            Amounts
                                         ----------------------
                                             (in millions)
1998                                            $    57
1999                                                 59
2000                                                 62
2001                                                 61
2002                                                 60
2003 and beyond                                     771
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           $ 1,070
================================================================

    Portions of the payments noted above relate to costs in excess of Plant
Vogtle's allowed investment for ratemaking purposes. The present value of these
portions was written off in 1987 and 1990.

    The Company and an affiliate, Alabama Power Company, own equally all of the
outstanding capital stock of Southern Electric Generating Company (SEGCO), which
owns electric generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020 megawatts,
as well as associated transmission facilities. The capacity of the units has
been sold equally to the Company and Alabama Power under a contract which, in
substance, requires payments sufficient to provide for the operating expenses,
taxes, debt service and return on investment, whether or not SEGCO has any
capacity and energy available. The term of the contract extends automatically
for two-year periods, subject to either party's right to cancel upon two year's
notice. The Company's share of expenses included in purchased power from
affiliates in the Statements of Income, is as follows:

                                1997       1996       1995
                             ---------------------------------
                                     (in millions)
Energy                           $45         $47        $44
Capacity                          30          30         29
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Total                            $75         $77        $73
==============================================================
Kilowatt-hours                 3,038       2,780      2,391
- --------------------------------------------------------------

    At December 31, 1997, the capitalization of SEGCO consisted of $50 million
of equity and $72 million of long-term debt on which the annual interest
requirement is $4 million.


                                       II-122


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report


    The Company has entered into other various long-term commitments for the
purchase of electricity. Total long-term obligations at December 31, 1997 were
as follows:


Year                                            Amounts
                                         ----------------------
                                             (in millions)
1998                                             $  16
1999                                                17
2000                                                21
2001                                                22
2002                                                23
2003 and beyond                                    360
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                            $ 459
===============================================================

Operating Leases

The Company has entered into coal rail car rental agreements with various terms
and expiration dates. These expenses totaled $11 million for 1997 and 1996 and
$12 million for 1995. At December 31, 1997, estimated minimum rental commitments
for these noncancelable operating leases were as follows:

Year                                            Amounts
                                         ----------------------
                                             (in millions)
1998                                             $  11
1999                                                11
2000                                                11
2001                                                12
2002                                                12
2003 and beyond                                    132
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                            $ 189
===============================================================

5.  NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988, the Company maintains
agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private insurance,
cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident occurring at the
Company's nuclear power plants. The act provides funds up to $8.9 billion for
public liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear incident. Each
nuclear plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of $200 million by
private insurance, with the remaining coverage provided by a mandatory program
of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against
all owners of nuclear reactors. The Company could be assessed up to $79 million
per incident for each licensed reactor it operates but not more than an
aggregate of $10 million per incident to be paid in a calendar year for each
reactor. Such maximum assessment for the Company, excluding any applicable state
premium taxes, -- based on its ownership and buyback interests -- is $160
million per incident but not more than an aggregate of $20 million to be paid
for each incident in any one year.

    The Company is a member of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL), a
mutual insurer established to provide property damage insurance in an amount up
to $500 million for members' nuclear generating facilities. The members are
subject to a retrospective premium assessment in the event that losses exceed
accumulated reserve funds. The Company's maximum annual assessment is limited to
$10 million under current policies.

    Additionally, the Company has policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million primary
coverage. This excess insurance is also provided by NEIL.

    Additionally, NEIL covers the costs that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant. Members can be insured against increased costs of replacement power in an
amount up to $3.5 million per week -- starting 17 weeks after the outage -- for
one year and up to $2.8 million per week for the second and third years.

    Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if
losses each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under
that policy. The maximum annual assessments under the current policies for the
Company would be $11 million for excess property damage and $11 million for
replacement power.

    For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose
of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any
remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination
and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and any further remaining


                                       II-123


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

proceeds are to be paid either to the Company or to its bond trustees as may be
appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

    All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property or
replacement power, may be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

6.  FACILITY SALES AND JOINT OWNERSHIP 
    AGREEMENTS

The Company has sold undivided interests in plants Hatch, Wansley, Vogtle, and
Scherer Units 1 and 2 to OPC, an electric membership generation and transmission
corporation; MEAG, a public corporation and an instrumentality of the state of
Georgia; and the City of Dalton, Georgia. The Company has sold an interest in
Plant Scherer Unit 3 to Gulf Power Company, an affiliate. Additionally, the
Company has sold 76.4 percent of Plant Scherer Unit 4 to Florida Power & Light
Company (FP&L) and the remaining 23.6 percent to Jacksonville Electric Authority
(JEA). The Company has also sold transmission facilities to Georgia Transmission
Corporation (formerly OPC's transmission division), MEAG, and the City of
Dalton.

    Except as otherwise noted, the Company has contracted to operate and
maintain all jointly owned facilities. The Company includes its proportionate
share of plant operating expenses in the corresponding operating expenses in the
Statements of Income.

    As discussed in Note 3, the Company owns 25.4 percent of the Rocky Mountain
pumped storage hydroelectric plant, which began commercial operation in 1995.
OPC owns the remainder, and is the operator of the plant.

    The Company owns six of eight 80 megawatt combustion turbine generating
units and 75 percent of the related common facilities at Plant McIntosh.
Savannah Electric and Power Company, an affiliate, owns the remainder and
operates the plant. Four of the Company's six units began commercial operation
during 1994, and the remaining two units began commercial operation in 1995.

    The Company and Florida Power Corporation (FPC) jointly own a combustion
turbine unit at Intercession City, Florida, near Orlando. The unit began
commercial operation in January 1997, and is operated by FPC. The Company owns a
one-third interest in the unit, with use of 100 percent of the unit's capacity
from June through September. FPC has the capacity the remainder of the year.

    At December 31, 1997, the Company's percentage ownership and investment
(exclusive of nuclear fuel) in jointly owned facilities in commercial operation,
were as follows:

                                       Total
                                     Nameplate        Company
Facility (Type)                      Capacity        Ownership
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      (megawatts)
Plant Vogtle (nuclear)                  2,320            45.7%
Plant Hatch (nuclear)                   1,722            50.1
Plant Wansley (coal)                    1,730            53.5
Plant Scherer (coal)
   Units 1 and 2                        1,636             8.4
   Unit 3                                 818            75.0
Plant McIntosh
   Common Facilities                      N/A            75.0
       (combustion-turbine)
Rocky Mountain                            848            25.4
       (pumped storage)
Intercession City                         142            33.3
       (combustion-turbine)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                   Accumulated
  Facility (Type)                  Investment     Depreciation
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                         (in millions)
   Plant Vogtle (nuclear)             $3,299*        $1,100
  Plant Hatch (nuclear)                  840            477
  Plant Wansley (coal)                   298            136
  Plant Scherer (coal)
     Units 1 and 2                       112             44
     Unit 3                              542            164
  Plant McIntosh
   Common Facilities
      (combustion-turbine)                19              1
  Rocky Mountain
      (pumped storage)                   202             44
  Intercession City
      (combustion-turbine)                13             **
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

     * Investment net of write-offs.
   ** Less than $1 million.



                                       II-124



NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

7.  LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

The Company and the operating subsidiaries of Southern Company have long-term
contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to non-affiliated
utilities located outside the system's service area. These agreements consist of
firm unit power sales pertaining to capacity from specific generating units.
Because energy is generally sold at cost under these agreements, it is primarily
the capacity revenues that affect the Company's profitability.

    The Company's capacity revenues were as follows:

               Year
               -------------------------------------
                      (in millions) (megawatts)
               1997        $  42           159
               1996           41           173
               1995           53           248
               -------------------------------------

    Unit power from specific generating plants is being sold to FP&L, FPC, JEA,
and the City of Tallahassee, Florida. Under these agreements, the Company sold
approximately 159 megawatts of capacity in 1997 and is scheduled to sell
approximately 162 megawatts of capacity in 1998 and 1999. In 2000, 129 megawatts
will be sold. After 2000, capacity sales will decline to approximately 105
megawatts -- unless reduced by FP&L, FPC, and JEA -- until the expiration of the
contracts in 2010.

8.  INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1997, tax-related regulatory assets were $688 million and
tax-related regulatory liabilities were $298 million. The assets are
attributable to tax benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to
taxes applicable to capitalized AFUDC. The liabilities are attributable to
deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax
law and to unamortized investment tax credits.

   Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:


                                     1997      1996      1995
                                  -------------------------------
Total provision for income taxes:          (in millions)
Federal:
   Currently payable                $ 352       $325      $349
   Deferred -
     Current year                      49         70        84
     Reversal of prior years          (68)       (41)      (55)
   Deferred investment tax
     credits                            -          -         1
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                      333        354       379
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
State:
   Currently payable                   65         56        60
   Deferred -
     Current year                       8         12        15
     Reversal of prior years          (11)        (5)       (8)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                       62         63        67
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                 395        417       446
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Less:
   Income taxes credited
     to other income                  (32)       (19)       (3)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes
   charged to operations            $ 427       $436      $449
=================================================================

    The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:


                                               1997      1996
                                             -------------------
                                               (in millions)
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Accelerated depreciation                    $1,732    $1,736
   Property basis differences                     968     1,038
   Other                                          142       174
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           2,842     2,948
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Other property basis differences               216       225
   Federal effect of state deferred taxes          99       100
   Other deferred costs                            83        93
   Disallowed Plant Vogtle buybacks                23        24
   Other                                           14        36
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                             435       478
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                    2,407     2,470
Portion included in current assets                 11        53
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income taxes
   in the Balance Sheets                       $2,418    $2,523
=================================================================

    Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce


                                       II-125


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $15 million in 1997, $17 million in 1996, and $22 million in 1995.
At December 31, 1997, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal
income taxes payable had been utilized.

    A reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate to the effective income
tax rate is as follows:

                                       1997     1996     1995
                                     -------- -------- --------
Federal statutory rate                  35%      35%      35%
State income tax, net of
   federal deduction                     4        4        4
Non-deductible book
   depreciation                          4        3        2
Other                                   (4)      (2)      (1)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate               39%      40%      40%
===============================================================

    Southern Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax
return. Under a joint consolidated income tax agreement, each subsidiary's
current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis. Tax
benefits from losses of the parent company are allocated to each subsidiary
based on the ratio of taxable income to total consolidated taxable income.

9.  CAPITALIZATION

First Mortgage Bond Indenture & Charter
Restrictions

The Company historically has relied on issuances of first mortgage bonds and
preferred stock, in addition to pollution control revenue bonds issued for its
benefit by public authorities, to meet its long-term external financing
requirements. Recently, the Company's financings have consisted of unsecured
debt and trust preferred securities. In this regard, the Company sought and
obtained stockholder approval in 1997 to amend its corporate charter eliminating
restrictions on the amounts of unsecured indebtedness it may incur.

    The Company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various restrictions
that remain in effect as long as the bonds are outstanding. At December 31,
1997, $852 million of retained earnings and paid-in capital was unrestricted for
the payment of cash dividends or any other distributions under terms of the
mortgage indenture. If additional first mortgage bonds are issued, supplemental
indentures in connection with those issues may contain more stringent
restrictions than those currently in effect.

    The Company's charter previously limited cash dividends on common stock to
the lesser of the retained earnings balance or 75 percent of net income
available for such stock during a prior period of 12 months if the ratio of
common stock equity to total capitalization, including retained earnings,
adjusted to reflect the payment of the proposed dividend, was below 25 percent,
and to 50 percent of such net income if such ratio was less than 20 percent.
These restrictions were removed by a vote of preferred shareholders on December
10, 1997.

Preferred Securities

In December 1994, Georgia Power Capital, L.P., of which the Company is the sole
general partner, issued $100 million of 9 percent mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of Georgia Power Capital
are $103 million aggregate principal amount of Georgia Power's 9 percent Junior
Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due December 19, 2024.

    Statutory business trusts formed by the Company, of which the Company owns
all the common securities, have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities as follows:

              Date of                                    Maturity
               Issue      Amount     Rate       Notes       Date
            -------------------------------------------------------
                        (millions)          (millions)
Trust I       8/1996       $225.00   7.75%        $232      6/2036
                              
Trust II      1/1997        175.00   7.60%         180     12/2036
                                    
Trust III     6/1997        189.25   7.75%         195      3/2037

     Substantially all of the assets of each trust are junior subordinated notes
issued by the Company in the respective approximate principal amounts set forth
above.

    The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to the
preferred securities, taken together, constitute a full and unconditional
guarantee by the Company of Georgia Power Capital's and the Trusts' payment
obligations with respect to the preferred securities.



                                       II-126

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    Georgia Power Capital, L.P., and the Trusts are subsidiaries of the Company,
and accordingly are consolidated in the Company's financial statements.

Pollution Control Bonds

The Company has incurred obligations in connection with the sale by public
authorities of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds. The Company has
authenticated and delivered to trustees an aggregate of $1.3 billion of its
first mortgage bonds, which are pledged as security for its obligations under
pollution control revenue contracts. No interest on these first mortgage bonds
is payable unless and until a default occurs on the installment purchase or loan
agreements.

    Details of pollution control bonds are as follows:

    Maturity         Interest Rates          1997       1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------
                                            (in millions)
2000              4.375%                   $   50      $  50
2004-2005         5% to 5.70%                 104        143
2011              Variable                     10         10
2017              8.375% to 9.375%              -        140
2018-2022         6% to 6.35%
                     & Variable               112        218
2023-2026         5.40% to 6.75%
                     & Variable             1,110      1,110
2029-2032         Variable                    235          -
2034              Variable                     50          -
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Total pollution control bonds              $1,671     $1,671
==============================================================

Senior Notes

In January 1998, the Company issued $145 million of 6 7/8% unsecured senior
notes due December 31, 2047. The senior notes are subordinated to all secured
debt of the Company, including its first mortgage bonds.

Bank Credit Arrangements

At the beginning of 1998, the Company had unused credit arrangements with banks
totaling $1.3 billion, of which $919 million expires at various times during
1998, $300 million expires at June 30, 1999, and $60.3 million expires at May 1,
2000.

    The $300 million expiring June 30, 1999, is under revolving credit
arrangements with several banks providing the Company and Alabama Power Company
up to a total credit amount of $300 million. To provide liquidity support for
commercial paper programs, $165 million and $135 million are currently dedicated
to the Company and Alabama Power Company, respectively. However, the allocations
can be changed among the borrowers by notifying the respective banks.

    Approximately $1.1 billion of the credit facilities allow for term loans of
between one and three years. Most of the agreements include stated borrowing
rates but also allow for negotiated rates. In addition, these agreements require
payment of commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments or
the maintenance of compensating balances with the banks.

    Of the Company's total $1.3 billion in unused credit arrangements, a portion
of the lines is dedicated to provide liquidity support to variable rate
pollution control bonds. The credit lines dedicated as of December 31, 1997,
totaled $879 million. In connection with all other lines of credit, the Company
has the option of paying fees or maintaining compensating balances. These
balances are not legally restricted from withdrawal.

    In addition, the Company borrows under uncommitted lines of credit with
banks and through a $225 million commercial paper program that has the liquidity
support of committed bank credit arrangements. Average compensating balances
held under these committed facilities were not material in 1997.

Other Long-Term Debt

Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded in the Balance Sheets as
utility plant in service, and the related obligations are classified as
long-term debt. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company had a capitalized
lease obligation for its corporate headquarters building of $87 million with an
interest rate of 8.1 percent. The lease agreement provides for payments that are
minimal in early years and escalate through the first 21 years of the lease. For
ratemaking purposes, the GPSC has treated the lease as an operating lease and
has allowed only the lease payments in cost of service. The difference between
the accrued expense and the lease payments allowed for ratemaking purposes is
being deferred as a cost to be recovered in the future as ordered by the GPSC.
                                       

                                     11-127


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1997 Annual Report

At December 31, 1997, and 1996, the interest and lease amortization deferred on
the Balance Sheets are $52 million and $51 million, respectively.

Assets Subject to Lien

The Company's mortgage dated as of March 1, 1941, as amended and supplemented,
securing the first mortgage bonds issued by the Company, constitutes a direct
lien on substantially all of the Company's fixed property and franchises.

Securities Due Within One Year

The current portion of the Company's long-term debt and preferred stock is as
follows:

                                                1997      1996
                                             -------------------
                                               (in millions)
First mortgage bonds                           $ 220     $  61
Preferred stock                                    -        49
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          $ 220     $ 110
================================================================

    The Company's first mortgage bond indenture includes an improvement fund
requirement that amounts to 1 percent of each outstanding series of bonds
authenticated under the indenture prior to January 1 of each year, other than
those issued to collateralize pollution control obligations. The requirement may
be satisfied by June 1 of each year by depositing cash, reacquiring bonds, or by
pledging additional property equal to 1 2/3 times the requirement. The 1998
requirement was met in the first quarter of the year by depositing cash with the
trustee. These funds were used to redeem first mortgage bonds.

Redemption of Securities

The Company plans to continue a program of redeeming or replacing debt and
preferred stock in cases where opportunities exist to reduce financing costs.
Issues may be repurchased in the open market or called at premiums as specified
under terms of the issue. They may also be redeemed at face value to meet
improvement fund requirements, to meet replacement provisions of the mortgage,
or through use of proceeds from the sale of property pledged under the mortgage.
In general, for the first five years a series of first mortgage bonds is
outstanding, the Company is prohibited from redeeming for improvement fund
purposes more than 1 percent annually of the original issue amount.

10. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Summarized quarterly financial information for 1997 and 1996 is as follows:

                                                      Net Income
                                                        After
                                                     Dividends on
                        Operating      Operating      Preferred
    Quarter Ended        Revenues       Income          Stock
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      (in millions)
                       --------------------------------------------
March 1997                $  959          $180           $106
June 1997                  1,015           205            131
September 1997             1,407           317            257
December 1997              1,005           159            100


March 1996                $1,029          $192           $114
June 1996                  1,134           233            154
September 1996             1,311           339            256
December 1996                943           122             56
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

    Earnings in the fourth quarter of 1997, compared to the fourth quarter of
1996, increased primarily as a result of higher retail sales and the recognition
in 1996 of an agreement to refund $14 million to municipalities and cooperatives
in Georgia.

    The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.


                                       II-128





                                       II-129




                                       II-130A



                                       130B





                                       130C





                                       II-131





                                       II-132A






                                       II-132B






                                       II-132C



                                                            II-133






                                    II-134A











                                    II-134C





                                     II-135




                                    II-136A






                                    II-136B




                                    II-136C





                                     II-137




                                    II-138A




                                    II-138B






                                    II-138C






                                     II-139





                                     II-140A





                                    II-140B





                                    II-140C






                                     II-141





                                         II-142




                                     II-143




                               GULF POWER COMPANY

                               FINANCIAL SECTION



                                     II-144





MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report
                                                              
The management of Gulf Power Company has prepared -- and is responsible for --
the financial statements and related information included in this report. These
statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include amounts that
are based on the best estimates and judgments of management. Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

    The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The Company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff. The Company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of directors who are
not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial reporting and
control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with management, the
internal auditors, and the independent public accountants to ensure that these
groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss auditing, internal
controls, and financial reporting matters. The internal auditors and independent
public accountants have access to the members of the audit committee at any
time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows
of Gulf Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.





/s/Travis J. Bowden
   Travis J. Bowden
   President and Chief Executive Officer


/s/Arlan E. Scarbrough
   Arlan E. Scarbrough
   Chief Financial Officer

February 11, 1998


                                       II-145


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors
of Gulf Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Gulf Power Company (a Maine corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of
Southern Company) as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related statements
of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-155 through II-171)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Gulf Power Company as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.





/s/Arthur Andersen LLP
   Atlanta, Georgia
   February 11, 1998


                                       II-146

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Gulf Power Company's 1997 net income after dividends on preferred stock was
$57.6 million, a decrease of $0.2 million over the prior year. This change is
primarily attributable to lower residential revenues as a result of milder than
normal weather.

    In 1996, earnings were $57.8 million, representing an increase of $0.6
million compared to the prior year.  Earnings in 1996 were affected primarily
by higher retail revenues.

    The return on average common equity was 13.33 percent for 1997 and 13.27
percent for 1996.

Revenues

Operating revenues decreased in 1997 and increased in 1996 as a result of the
following factors:

                                    Increase (Decrease)
                                      From Prior Year
                            -------------------------------------
                                 1997         1996        1995
                            -------------------------------------
                                        (in thousands)
Retail --
   Sales growth               $ 4,004      $ 7,123     $ 3,647
   Weather                     (5,277)      (1,057)      9,749
   Regulatory cost
     recovery and other        (7,837)       5,649      22,502
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total retail                   (9,110)      11,715      35,898
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Sales for resale--
   Non-affiliates                 496        2,788      (5,698)
   Affiliates                  (1,002)        (857)      1,266
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total sales for resale           (506)       1,931      (4,432)
Other operating
   revenues                     1,107        1,642       8,798
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating
   revenues                   $(8,509)     $15,288     $40,264
================================================================
Percent change                   (1.3)%        2.5%        7.0%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

   Retail revenues of $521 million in 1997 decreased $9.1 million or 1.7 percent
from last year, compared with an increase of 2.3 percent in 1996 and 7.4 percent
in 1995. The 1997 reduction was due primarily to a decrease in residential
revenues as a result of mild weather and recovery of lower purchased power
capacity costs.

   The decrease in regulatory cost recovery and other retail revenues is
primarily attributable to the recovery of decreased purchased power capacity
costs from affiliated companies. Regulatory cost recovery and other includes
recovery provisions for fuel expense and the energy component of purchased power
costs; energy conservation costs; purchased power capacity costs; and
environmental compliance costs. The recovery provisions equal the related
expenses and have no material effect on net income. See Notes 1 and 3 to the
financial statements under "Revenues and Regulatory Cost Recovery Clauses" and
"Environmental Cost Recovery," respectively, for further information.

   Sales for resale were $80.5 million in 1997, decreasing $0.5 million or 0.6
percent from 1996. Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area
under long-term contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity
revenues reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under
the contracts. Energy is generally sold at variable cost. The capacity and
energy components under these long-term contracts were as follows:

                           1997         1996           1995
                    ----------------------------------------
                                   (in thousands)
Capacity                $24,899      $25,400        $25,870
Energy                   18,160       19,804         18,598
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Total                   $43,059      $45,204        $44,468
============================================================

   Capacity revenues decreased slightly in 1997 and 1996, primarily reflecting
the decline in net plant investment related to these sales.

   Sales to affiliated companies vary from year to year depending on demand and
the availability and cost of generating resources at each company. These sales
have little impact on earnings.

   The increase in other operating revenues in 1997 is primarily attributable to
adjustments to reflect differences between recoverable costs and the amounts
actually reflected in current rates. The increase in other operating revenues
for 1996 was primarily due to increased amounts collected to recover
newly-imposed county franchise fees. These fees are included in taxes other than
income taxes and have no impact on earnings. See Notes 1 and 3 to the financial
statements under "Revenues and Regulatory Cost Recovery Clauses" and


                                       II-147


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

"Environmental Cost Recovery," respectively, for further discussion.

   Kilowatt-hour sales for 1997 and percent changes in sales since 1995 are
reported below.

                          KWH                Percent Change
                      ------------     ---------------------------
                         1997           1997     1996      1995
                      ------------     ---------------------------
                       (millions)
Residential                 4,119        (1.0)%    3.6%      7.0%
Commercial                  2,898         3.2      3.7       6.3
Industrial                  1,903         5.3      0.7      (2.8)
Other                          18         1.6      2.7      (0.1)
                      ------------
Total retail                8,939         1.6      3.0       4.5
Sales for resale
   Non-affiliates           1,531        (0.2)     9.9      (1.6)
   Affiliates                 848        19.5     (6.5)    (13.1)
                      ------------
Total                      11,318         2.5      3.3       2.2
==================================================================

   Retail sales growth was lower in 1997 than in the past two years. Although
the total number of residential customers served increased by more than 9,000 or
3.1% during the year, residential energy sales declined as a result of milder
weather in 1997, compared with more normal weather in 1996. The increase in
energy sales to the industrial class is primarily the result of the
Real-Time-Pricing program. The price structure of this program has encouraged
participating industrial customers to lower their peak demand requirements and
increase their purchases of energy during off-peak periods. See "Future Earnings
Potential" for information on the Company's initiatives to remain competitive
and to meet conservation goals set by the Florida Public Service Commission
(FPSC).

   In 1997, energy sales for resale to non-affiliates were essentially
unchanged, decreasing 0.2 percent, and are predominantly related to unit power
sales under long-term contracts to other Florida utilities and bulk power sales
under short-term contracts to other non-affiliated utilities. Energy sales to
affiliated companies vary from year to year as mentioned previously.

Expenses

In 1997, total operating expenses decreased $3.9 million or 0.7 percent from
1996 primarily due to lower fuel and purchased power expenses and maintenance
expenses, offset by higher other operation expenses and depreciation and
amortization expenses. Total operating expenses for 1996 increased $12.7 million
or 2.4 percent from 1995. The increase is due to higher purchased power
expenses, other operation expenses, depreciation expenses, and taxes.

   In 1997, fuel and purchased power expenses decreased $10.1 million or 4.4
percent from 1996 reflecting the decrease in fuel and purchased power costs due
to slightly lower fuel costs and increased generation. Fuel and purchased power
expenses for 1996 increased $4 million or 1.8 percent from 1995. The change
reflected the increase in purchased power from affiliated companies due to
scheduled maintenance outages at Plant Crist and Plant Daniel during the first
half of 1996. This increase was partially offset by a slight decrease in fuel
expense reflecting a lower cost of fuel.

   The amount and sources of generation and the average cost of fuel per net
kilowatt-hour generated were as follows:

                                         1997      1996     1995
                                     ----------------------------
Total generation
   (millions of kilowatt-hours)        10,435    10,214    9,828
Sources of generation
   (percent)
   Coal                                  99.6      99.4     99.5
   Oil and gas                            0.4       0.6      0.5
Average cost of fuel per net
   kilowatt-hour generated
   (cents)
   Coal                                  1.97      1.99     2.08
   Oil and gas                           5.59      6.41     3.56
Total                                    1.99      2.02     2.09
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

   Other operation expenses increased $11.1 million or 9.6% in 1997. The
increase was primarily attributable to higher costs related to the amortization
of prior year buyout and renegotiation of coal supply contracts. Other
contributing factors were implementation costs related to a new customer
accounting system and increased production and distribution costs related to
1997 work force reduction programs. In 1996, other operation expenses increased
$1.8 million or 1.5 percent from the 1995 level. The increase was primarily
attributable to an increase in administrative and general expenses including
costs associated with the approved increase in the Company's annual accrual to


                                       II-148

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

the accumulated provision for property damage to amortize deferred storm charges
and restore the account balance to a reasonable level. See Note 2 to the
financial statements under "Workforce Reduction Programs" for further
discussion.

   Maintenance expenses decreased $3.1 million or 6.0 percent in 1997 and
decreased $0.9 million or 1.7 percent in 1996. The decreases were primarily due
to a decrease in scheduled maintenance of production facilities.

   Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $1.2 million or 2.2 percent
in 1997 and increased $1.5 million or 2.8 percent in 1996. Both years increases
were primarily due to an increase in depreciation expenses as a result of an
increase in the average investment in distribution property required to serve
the additional customers in the Company's service area.

   Federal and state income taxes decreased $2.8 million or 7.4 percent in 1997
primarily due to a decrease in taxable income.

   Interest expense in 1997 decreased $0.9 million or 3.0 percent from the prior
year. The decrease is attributable to retirements and refinancings of long-term
debt and reduced interest on notes payable, partially offset by the increase
related to distributions on preferred securities of a subsidiary trust. In 1996,
interest expense increased $0.9 million or 3.2 percent over the prior year. The
increase was attributable to the issuance of $30 million of new first mortgage
bonds in January 1996. The increase in interest on long-term debt was partially
offset by a decrease in interest on notes payable as a result of a lower average
amount of short-term notes outstanding.

Effects of Inflation

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an economic loss
because the Company is recovering its cost of investments in dollars that have
less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in
recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of
the large investment in long-lived utility plant. Conventional accounting for
historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations, such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from energy sales growth to a potentially less
regulated more competitive environment.

   Gulf Power currently operates as a vertically integrated utility providing
electricity to customers within its traditional service area located in 
northwest Florida. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to
retail customers are set by the FPSC.

   Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
which is subject to a number of factors. Traditionally, these factors have
included weather, competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities,
energy conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the
rate of economic growth in the Company's service area.

   The electric utility industry in the United States is currently undergoing a
period of change as a result of regulatory and competitive factors. Among the
primary agents of change has been the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act).
The Company is positioning the business to meet the challenge of this major
change in the traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy Act allows
independent power producers (IPPs) to access the Company's transmission network
in order to sell electricity to other utilities. This enhances the incentive for
IPPs to build cogeneration plants for industrial and commercial customers and
sell energy generation to other utilities. The Company has and will continue to
evaluate opportunities to partner and participate in profitable cogeneration
projects. In 1997, partnering with one of the Company's largest industrial
customers, 15 megawatts of Company-owned cogeneration is being constructed on
the customer's plant site. Also, electricity sales for resale rates are being
driven down by wholesale transmission access and numerous potential new energy
suppliers, including power marketers and brokers. The Company is aggressively
working to maintain and expand its share of wholesale sales in the southeastern
power markets.



                                       II-149


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

   Although the Energy Act does not permit retail customer access, it was a
major catalyst for the current restructuring and consolidation taking place
within the utility industry. Numerous federal and state initiatives to promote
wholesale and retail competition are at varying stages. Among other things,
these initiatives allow customers to choose their electricity provider. As the
initiatives materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically
change. Some states have approved initiatives that result in a separation of the
ownership and/or operation of generating facilities from the ownership and/or
operation of transmission and distribution facilities. While various
restructuring and competition initiatives have been or are being discussed in
Florida, none have been enacted to date. Enactment would require numerous issues
to be resolved, including significant ones relating to transmission pricing and
recovery of any stranded investments. The inability of the Company to recover
its investments, including the regulatory assets described in Note 1 to the
financial statements, could have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition of the Company. The Company is attempting to minimize or reduce its
cost exposure.

   Continuing to be a low-cost producer could provide significant opportunities
to increase market share and profitability in markets that evolve with changing
regulation. Conversely, unless the Company remains a low-cost producer and
provides quality service, the Company's retail energy sales growth could be
limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

   The FPSC set conservation goals and approved programs to accomplish the goals
beginning in 1995. The goals require conservation programs which reduce 154
megawatts of summer peak demand and 65 million KWH of sales by the year 2004.
The Company can experience net growth as long as the filed programs achieve the
intended reductions in peak demand and KWH sales. In response to these goals and
seeking to remain competitive with other electric utilities, the Company has
developed initiatives which emphasize price flexibility and competitive offering
of energy efficiency products and services. These initiatives will enable
customers to lower or alter their peak energy requirements. Besides promoting
energy efficiency, another benefit of these initiatives could be the ability to
defer the need to construct additional generating capacity.

   On September 3, 1996, the FPSC approved a new optional Commercial/Industrial
Service Rider (CISR), which is applicable to the rate schedules for the
Company's largest existing and potential customers who are able to show they
have viable alternatives to purchasing the Company's energy services. The CISR,
approved as a pilot program, provides the flexibility needed to enable the
Company to offer its services in a more competitive manner to these customers.
During 1997, the publicity of the CISR ruling, increased competitive pressures,
and general awareness of customer choice pilots and proposals across the country
has stimulated interest on the part of customers in custom tailored offerings.
The Company has participated in one-on-one discussions with many of these
customers, and has negotiated and executed two Contract Service Agreements
within the CISR pilot program in 1997.

   The Company is heavily dependent upon complex computer systems for all phases
of its operations. The year 2000 issue--common to most corporations--concerns
the inability of certain software and databases to properly recognize date
sensitive information beginning related to the year 2000 and thereafter. This
problem could result in a material disruption to the Company's operation, if not
corrected. The Company has assessed and developed a detailed strategy to prevent
or at least minimize problems related to the year 2000 issue. In 1997, resources
were committed and implementation began to modify the affected information
systems. Total costs related to the project for Southern Company are estimated
to be approximately $85 million, of which $8 million was spent in 1997. The
Company's total costs related to the project are estimated to be approximately
$5 million, of which $0.5 million was spent in 1997. Most all remaining costs
will be expensed in 1998. Implementation is currently on schedule and all costs
are being expensed as incurred. The degree of success of this project cannot be
determined at this time. However, management believes that the final outcome
will not have a material adverse effect on the operations of the Company.


                                       II-150

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

   Compliance costs related to current and future environmental laws and
regulations could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The
Clean Air Act and other important environmental items are discussed later under
"Environmental Matters." Also, Florida legislation adopted in 1993 that provides
for recovery of prudent environmental compliance costs is discussed in Note 3 to
the financial statements under "Environmental Cost Recovery."

   The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to these provisions, the Company would be required to write off related
regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically recoverable, and
determine if any other assets have been impaired. See Note 1 to the financial
statements under "Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for additional information.

Exposure to Market Risks

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market
volatility in interest rates and prices of electricity. To mitigate residual
risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into fixed
price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale
electricity market. Realized gains and losses are recognized in the income
statements as incurred. At December 31, 1997, exposure from these activities was
not material to the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash
flows.

New Accounting Standards

The FASB has issued Statement No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, which
will be effective in 1998. This statement establishes standards for reporting
and display of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general
purpose financial statements. The objective of the statement is to report a
measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise that result from transactions
and other economic events of the period other than transactions with owners
(comprehensive income). Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all
other non-owner changes in equity. These rules will be adopted by the Company
in 1998.

   The FASB has issued Statement No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. This statement requires that a public
business enterprise report financial and descriptive information about its
reportable operating segments. Generally, financial information is required to
be reported on the basis that it is used by the chief operating decision maker
in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. This
statement also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and
services, geographic areas, and major customers. The Company adopted the new
rules in 1997, which do not have a significant impact on the Company's financial
reporting. However, this conclusion may change as industry restructuring and
competitive factors influence the Company's operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

The Company's financial condition continues to be very solid. During 1997, gross
property additions were $54.3 million. Funds for the property additions were
provided by internal sources. See the Statements of Cash Flows for further
details.

Financing Activities

The Company continued to lower its financing costs by issuing new long
term-notes and trust preferred securities and retiring higher-cost issues in
1997. The Company sold $40 million of trust preferred securities, $40.9 million
of pollution control bonds, and $20 million of junior subordinated notes.
Retirements, including maturities during 1997, totaled $25 million of first
mortgage bonds, $40.9 million of pollution control bonds, $75.9 million of
preferred stock, and $16 million of long-term bank notes. The refinancing of
$40.9 million in pollution control bonds and $39.5 million in preferred stock
will result in savings of over $2.6 million annually. See the Statements of Cash
Flows for further details.

   Composite financing rates for the years 1995 through 1997 as of year end were
as follows:

                                     1997      1996       1995
                                  ------------------------------
Composite interest rate on
   long-term debt                     5.9%      6.1%       6.5%
Composite preferred stock
   dividend rate                      6.1%      6.4%       6.4%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                     

                                     II-151


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

   The decrease in the composite interest rate on long-term debt from 1995 to
1997 reflects the Company's efforts to refinance higher-cost debt. The decrease
in the composite preferred stock dividend rate in 1997 was primarily due to a
decrease in dividends on the Company's adjustable rate preferred stock,
reflecting lower interest rates, and the retirement of higher coupon rate
preferred stock.

Capital Requirements for Construction

The Company's gross property additions, including those amounts related to
environmental compliance, are budgeted at $192 million for the three years
beginning in 1998 ($68 million in 1998, $62 million in 1999, and $62 million in
2000). Actual construction costs may vary from this estimate because of changes
in such factors as: business conditions; environmental regulations; load
projections; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that
costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. The Company does
not have any major generating plants under construction, however, significant
construction related to maintaining and upgrading transmission and distribution
facilities and generating plants will continue.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately $80
million will be required by the end of 2000 in connection with maturities of
long-term debt. Also, the Company will continue to retire higher-cost debt and
preferred stock and replace these securities with lower-cost capital as market
conditions and terms of the instruments permit.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- significantly
affected the Company. Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide
emissions from fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase
I compliance began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating units of
Southern Company. As a result of Southern Company's compliance strategy, an
additional 22 generating units were brought into compliance with Phase I
requirements. Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired
generating plants will be affected.

   Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled approximately $300
million for Southern Company, including approximately $42 million for Gulf
Power.

   For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired units as required
to meet Phase II limits. Current compliance strategy for Phase II and ozone
non-attainment could require total estimated construction expenditures for
Southern Company of approximately $70 million, of which $55 million remains to
be spent. Phase II compliance is not expected to have a material impact on Gulf
Power.

   Following adoption of legislation in April of 1992 allowing electric
utilities in Florida to seek FPSC approval of their Clean Air Act Compliance
Plans, Gulf Power filed its petition for approval. The FPSC approved the
Company's plan for Phase I compliance, deferring until a later date approval of
its Phase II Plan.

   In 1993, the Florida Legislature adopted legislation that allows a utility to
petition the FPSC for recovery of prudent environmental compliance costs that
are not being recovered through base rates or any other recovery mechanism. The
legislation is discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Environmental Cost Recovery." Substantially all of the costs for the Clean Air
Act and other new environmental legislation discussed below are expected to be
recovered through the Environmental Cost Recovery Clause.

   In July 1997, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) revised the national
ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. This revision
makes the standards significantly more stringent. Also, in October 1997, the EPA
issued a proposed regional ozone rule--if implemented--that could require
substantial further reductions in NOx emissions from fossil-fueled generating
facilities. Implementation of the standards and the proposed rule could result
in significant additional compliance costs and capital expenditures that cannot
be determined at this time.


                                       II-152


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

   The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various other matters including: emission control strategies for
ozone non-attainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant
emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.

   Gulf Power must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties.
The Company conducts studies to determine the extent of any required cleanup
costs and has recognized in the financial statements costs to clean up known
sites. For additional information, see Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Environmental Cost Recovery."

   Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of the Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

   Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electric and magnetic fields, and other environmental health concerns
could significantly affect the Company. The impact of new legislation -- if any
- -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable
regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the result of
lawsuits alleging damages caused by electric and magnetic fields.

Sources of Capital

At December 31, 1997, the Company had $4.7 million of cash and cash equivalents
and $32.5 million of unused committed lines of credit with banks to meet its
short-term cash needs. Refer to Statements of Cash Flows for details related to
the Company's financing activities. See Note 5 to the financial statements under
"Bank Credit Arrangements" for additional information.

   In January 1998, Gulf Power Capital Trust II (Trust II), of which the Company
owns all the common securities, issued $45 million of 7.0 percent mandatorily
redeemable preferred securities.  See Note 9 to the financial statements under
"Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities" for additional
information.

   It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be derived
from operations; the sale of additional first mortgage bonds, long-term
unsecured debt, pollution control bonds, and preferred securities; bank notes;
and capital contributions from Southern Company. If the attractiveness of
current short-term interest rates continues, the Company may maintain a higher
level of short-term indebtedness than has historically been true. The Company is
required to meet certain coverage requirements specified in its mortgage
indenture and corporate charter to issue new first mortgage bonds and preferred
stock. The Company's coverage ratios are sufficient to permit, at present
interest and preferred dividend levels, any foreseeable security sales. In
December 1997, the Company obtained stockholder approval to amend the corporate
charter including the elimination of the restrictions on the amount of unsecured
indebtedness allowed. The amount of securities which the Company will be
permitted to issue in the future will depend upon market conditions and other
factors prevailing at that time.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information

Gulf Power Company's 1997 Annual Report contains forward-looking statements in
addition to historical information. The Company cautions that there are various
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from
those indicated in the forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no
assurance that such indicated results will be realized. These factors include
legislative and regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring
of the electric utility industry; the extent and timing of the entry of
additional competition in the Company's markets; potential business
strategies--including acquisitions or dispositions of assets or internal
restructuring--that may be pursued by the company; state and federal rate


                                       II-153


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

regulation; changes in or application of environmental and other laws and
regulations to which the Company is subject; political, legal and economic
conditions and developments; financial market conditions and the results of
financing efforts; changes in commodity prices and interest rates; weather and
other natural phenomena; and other factors discussed in the reports--including
Form 10-K--filed from time to time by the Company with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.


                                       II-154



STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report



                                       II-155





                                     II-156







                                     II-157









                                     II-158






                                       II-159








                                       II-160





                                       II-161






NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

General

Gulf Power Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is
the parent company of five operating companies, a system service company,
Southern Communications Services (Southern Communications), Southern Energy,
Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear Operating Company (Southern Nuclear),
Southern Company Energy Solutions, and other direct and indirect subsidiaries.
The operating companies (Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi
Power, and Savannah Electric) provide electric service in four southeastern
states. Gulf Power Company provides electric service to the northwest panhandle
of Florida. Contracts among the operating companies -- dealing with jointly
owned generating facilities, interconnecting transmission lines, and the
exchange of electric power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC) or the Securities and Exchange Commission. The system service
company provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and
subsidiary companies. Southern Communications provides digital wireless
communications services to the operating companies and also markets these
services to the public within the Southeast. Worldwide, Southern Energy develops
and manages electricity and other energy related projects, including domestic
energy trading and marketing. Southern Nuclear provides services to Southern
Company's nuclear power plants. Southern Company Energy Solutions develops new
business opportunities related to energy products and services.

   Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The Company is also
subject to regulation by the FERC and the Florida Public Service Commission
(FPSC). The Company follows generally accepted accounting principles and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the FPSC. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may
differ from those estimates.

   Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the Company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited
to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Balance Sheets at December 31 relate to the following:

                                              1997         1996
                                        -------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Deferred income tax debits                $ 26,586      $ 28,313
Deferred loss on reacquired debt            20,494        20,386
Environmental remediation                    7,338         7,577
Current & deferred
   coal contract costs                       4,456        29,515
Vacation pay                                 4,057         4,055
Deferred storm charges                         703         3,275
Regulatory clauses over
   recovery, net                            (3,387)       (1,740)
Deferred income tax credits                (56,935)      (64,354)
Other, net                                    (629)       (1,202)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                     $  2,683      $ 25,825
=================================================================

   In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer subject
to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the Company would be required to write
off related net regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically
recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would be required
to determine any impairment to other assets, including plant, and write down the
assets, if impaired, to their fair value.


                                       II-162

NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Revenues and Regulatory Cost Recovery Clauses

The Company accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period. The Company has a diversified base of customers and no
single customer or industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1997,
uncollectible accounts continued to average significantly less than 1 percent of
revenues.

   Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The Company's electric rates
include provisions to periodically adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel, the
energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs. The Company
also has similar cost recovery clauses for energy conservation costs, purchased
power capacity costs, and environmental compliance costs. Revenues are adjusted
monthly for differences between recoverable costs and amounts actually reflected
in current rates.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.6 percent in 1997, 1996, and 1995. When property subject to depreciation is
retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of business, its cost --
together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is charged to the accumulated
provision for depreciation. Minor items of property included in the original
cost of the plant are retired when the related property unit is retired. Also,
the provision for depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected cost
of removal of facilities.

Income Taxes

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes
and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax temporary
differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and amortized to
income over the average lives of the related property. The Company is included
in the consolidated federal income tax return of Southern Company. See Note 8
for further information related to income taxes.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction
(AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. AFUDC amounts for 1997, 1996, and 1995 were immaterial and
are included in other, net and other interest charges in the Statements of
Income.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost. Original cost includes: materials;
labor; minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction. The cost of maintenance,
repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense. The cost of replacements of property (exclusive of minor items of
property) is charged to utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

Financial Instruments

The Company's financial instruments for which the carrying amount did not equal
fair value at December 31 were as follows:

                                     Carrying           Fair
                                      Amount           Value
                                 ----------------------------
                                         (in thousands)
Long-term debt
   At December 31, 1997              $350,320       $356,766
   At December 31, 1996              $372,852       $373,394

Capital trust preferred
   securities:
   At December 31, 1997               $40,000        $40,800
   At December 31, 1996                     -              -
- -------------------------------------------------------------

                                       II-163

NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

   The fair values for long-term debt and preferred securities were based on
either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory
when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

Provision for Injuries and Damages

The Company is subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of
business. As permitted by regulatory authorities, the Company provides for the
uninsured costs of injuries and damages by charges to income amounting to $1.2
million annually. The expense of settling claims is charged to the provision to
the extent available. The accumulated provision of $1.4 million and $1.8 million
at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, is included in miscellaneous
current liabilities in the accompanying Balance Sheets.

Provision for Property Damage

The Company is self-insured for the full cost of storm and other damages to its
transmission and distribution property. At December 31, 1997, the accumulated
provision for property damage had a negative balance of $0.7 million. The
negative balance was reclassified to deferred storm charges in the accompanying
Balance Sheets. In December 1995, the FPSC approved the Company's request to
increase the amount of its annual accrual to the accumulated provision for
property damage account from $1.2 million to $3.5 million and approved a target
level for the accumulated provision account between $25.1 and $36 million. The
FPSC has also given the Company the flexibility to increase its annual accrual
amount above $3.5 million, when the Company believes it is in a position to do
so, until the account balance reaches $12 million. The Company accrued $3.9
million in 1997 and $4.5 million in 1996 to the accumulated provision for
property damage. The expense of repairing damages from major storms and other
uninsured property damages is charged to the provision account.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on one of the
following formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of service
and a flat-dollar benefit. The Company uses the "entry age normal method with a
frozen initial liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject to
limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the pension
trust fund are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities. FASB
Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pension, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

The Company provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. Trusts are funded to the extent deductible under
federal income tax regulations or to the extent required by the Company's
regulatory commissions. Amounts funded are primarily invested in equity and
fixed-income securities. FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis
using a specified actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."


                                       II-164


NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report


Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The funded status of the plans and reconciliation to amounts reflected in the
Balance Sheets at December 31 are as follows:

                                              Pension
                                     -------------------------
                                           1997         1996
                                     -------------------------
                                               (in thousands)
Actuarial present value of
 benefit obligation:
     Vested benefits                   $ 97,180     $ 87,245
     Non-vested benefits                  3,886        5,101
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation          101,066       92,346
Additional amounts related to
   projected salary increases            29,728       31,121
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation            130,794      123,467
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets            222,196      191,152
   Unrecognized net gain                (80,497)     (58,900)
   Unrecognized prior service cost        5,244        5,618
   Unrecognized transition asset         (5,764)      (6,485)
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid asset recognized in
   the Balance Sheets                  $ 10,385     $  7,918
=============================================================


                                     Postretirement Benefits
                                     ---------------------------
                                              1997         1996
                                     ---------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Actuarial present value of
 benefit obligation:
     Retirees and dependents               $17,363      $10,478
     Employees eligible to retire            4,537        5,484
     Other employees                        17,769       17,694
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation              39,669       33,656
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                 9,813        7,996
   Unrecognized net loss                     3,930        1,531
   Unrecognized transition
     obligation                              5,435        5,790
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liability recognized in
   the Balance Sheets                      $20,491      $18,339
================================================================

   The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations were:

                                      1997       1996     1995
                                   ------------------------------
Discount                               7.5%      7.8%      7.3%
Annual salary increase                 5.0%      5.3%      4.8%
Long-term return on plan
  assets                               8.5%      8.5%      8.5%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

   An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 8.8
percent for 1997, decreasing gradually to 5.5 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation at December 31, 1997, by $3.2 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net retiree cost by $278 thousand.

   Components of the plans' net costs are shown below:

                                              Pension
                              ------------------------------------
                                    1997        1996         1995
                              ------------------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Benefits earned during
   the year                    $   3,897    $  3,880      $ 3,867
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation              9,301       9,129        8,042
Actual (return) loss on
   plan assets                   (32,924)    (21,021)     (33,853)
Net amortization
   and deferral                   17,246       5,920       19,619
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension income             $ (2,480)    $ (2,092)     $(2,325)
==================================================================

   Of the above net pension amounts, pension income of $1.8 million in 1997,
$1.5 million in 1996, and $1.8 million in 1995 were recorded in operating
expenses, and the remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.


                                       II-165



NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report
                                       Postretirement Benefits
                                   --------------------------------
                                        1997        1996      1995
                                   --------------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Benefits earned during the year       $  896      $  939    $1,259
Interest cost on accumulated
   benefit obligation                  2,845       2,330     2,520
Amortization of transition
   obligation                            356         356       853
Actual (return) loss on plan assets   (1,166)       (797)   (1,268)
Net amortization and deferral            709         318       742
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement cost               $3,640      $3,146    $4,106
===================================================================

   Of the above net postretirement costs recorded, $2.7 million in 1997, $2.3
million in 1996, and $3.1 million in 1995 were charged to operating expenses,
and the remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.

Work Force Reduction Programs

The Company recorded costs related to work force reductions programs of $1.4
million in 1997, $1.2 million in 1996, and $7 million in 1995. The Company has
also incurred its pro rata share for the costs of affiliated companies'
programs. The costs related to these programs were $1.3 million for 1997, $2.1
million for 1996, and $1 million for 1995. The costs related to work force
reductions have been expensed to operation expenses.

3.  LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

FERC Reviews Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the operating companies' wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar contracts.

   In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

   In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on substantially
the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a FERC
administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to meet
its burden of proof, and therefore, no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter remains pending before the FERC.


   If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all of the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings, as
well as certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in determining
return on common equity, and if refunds were ordered, the amount of refunds
could range up to approximately $194 million for Southern Company, including
approximately $13 million for the Company at December 31, 1997. Although
management believes that rates are not excessive and that refunds are not
justified, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

Environmental Cost Recovery

In April 1993, the Florida Legislature adopted legislation for an Environmental
Cost Recovery Clause (ECRC), which allows a utility to petition the FPSC for
recovery of all prudent environmental compliance costs that are not being
recovered through base rates or any other recovery mechanism. Such environmental
costs include operation and maintenance expense, emission allowance expense,
depreciation, and a return on invested capital.

   In January 1994, the FPSC approved the Company's initial petition under the
ECRC for recovery of environmental costs. Beginning with this initial period
through September 1996, recovery under the ECRC was determined semi-annually. In
August 1996, the FPSC approved annual recovery periods beginning with the
October 1996 through September 1997 period. Recovery includes a true-up of the
prior period and a projection of the ensuing period. During 1997 and 1996, the
Company recorded ECRC revenues of $10.2 million and $11.0 million, respectively.

   At December 31, 1997, the Company's liability for the estimated costs of
environmental remediation projects for known sites was $7.3 million. These
estimated costs are expected to be expended during the period 1998 to 2002.


                                       II-166

NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

These projects have been approved by the FPSC for recovery through the ECRC
discussed above. Therefore, the Company recorded $1.7 million in current assets
and current liabilities, and $5.6 million in deferred assets and liabilities
representing the future recoverability of these costs.

4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program, the cost of which
is currently estimated to total $68 million in 1998, $62 million in 1999, and
$62 million in 2000. The construction program is subject to periodic review and
revision, and actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates
because of numerous factors. These factors include changes in business
conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations;
increasing costs of labor, equipment and materials; and cost of capital. At
December 31, 1997, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in
connection with the construction program. The Company does not have any major
generating plants under construction, however, significant construction will
continue related to transmission and distribution facilities and the upgrading
and extension of the useful lives of generating plants.

   See Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Environmental Matters" for
information on the impact of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and other
environmental matters.

5.  FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS

General

Current projections indicate that funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be derived
primarily from internal sources. Requirements not met from internal sources will
be derived from the sale of additional first mortgage bonds, long-term unsecured
debt, pollution control bonds, and preferred securities; bank notes; and capital
contributions from Southern Company. In addition, the Company may issue
additional long-term debt and preferred securities primarily for debt maturities
and redemptions of higher-cost securities.

Bank Credit Arrangements

At December 31, 1997, the Company had $41.5 million of lines of credit with
banks subject to renewal June 1 of each year, of which $32.5 million remained
unused. In addition, the Company has two unused committed lines of credit
totaling $61.9 million that were established for liquidity support of its
variable rate pollution control bonds. In connection with these credit lines,
the Company has agreed to pay commitment fees and/or to maintain compensating
balances with the banks. The compensating balances, which represent
substantially all of the cash of the Company except for daily working funds and
like items, are not legally restricted from withdrawal. In addition, the Company
has bid-loan facilities with ten major money center banks that total $180
million, of which $38 million was committed at December 31, 1997.

Assets Subject to Lien

The Company's mortgage, which secures the first mortgage bonds issued by the
Company, constitutes a direct first lien on substantially all of the Company's
fixed property and franchises.

Fuel Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
Company has entered into long-term commitments for the procurement of fuel. In
most cases, these contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum
purchase levels, and other financial commitments. Total estimated long-term
obligations at December 31, 1997, were as follows:

      Year                                         Fuel
     -------                                 ----------------
                                              (in millions)
     1998                                               $82
     1999                                                77
     2000                                                70
     2001                                                72
     2002                                                74
     2003 - 2007                                        408
     --------------------------------------------------------
     Total commitments                                 $783
    =========================================================

   In 1988, the Company made an advance payment of $60 million to a coal
supplier under an arrangement to lower the cost of future coal purchased under
an existing contract. This amount is being amortized to expense on a per ton


                                       II-167

NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

basis over a ten-year period.  The remaining unamortized amount was $2.7
million at December 31, 1997.

   In December 1995, the Company made another payment of $22 million to the same
coal supplier under an arrangement to lower the cost of future coal and/or to
suspend the purchase of coal under an existing contract for 25 months. This
amount is being amortized to expense on a per ton basis through the first
quarter of 1998. The remaining unamortized amount was $1.8 million at December
31, 1997.

   The amortization expense of these contract buyouts and renegotiations is
being recovered through the fuel cost recovery clause discussed under "Revenues
and Regulatory Cost Recovery Clauses" in Note 1.

Lease Agreements

In 1989, the Company and Mississippi Power jointly entered into a twenty-two
year operating lease agreement for the use of 495 aluminum railcars. In 1994, a
second lease agreement for the use of 250 additional aluminum railcars was
entered into for twenty-two years. Both of these leases are for the
transportation of coal to Plant Daniel. The Company has the option after three
years from the date of the original contract on the second lease agreement to
purchase the railcars at the greater of the termination value or the fair market
value. Additionally, at the end of each lease term, the Company has the option
to renew the lease. In 1997, three additional lease agreements for 120 cars each
were entered into for three years, with a monthly renewal option for up to an
additional nine months.

   The Company, as a joint owner of Plant Daniel, is responsible for one half of
the lease costs. The lease costs are charged to fuel inventory and are allocated
to fuel expense as the fuel is used. The Company's share of the lease costs
charged to fuel inventories was $2.3 million in 1997 and $1.7 million in 1996.
The annual amounts for 1998 through 2002 will be $2.8 million, $2.8 million,
$2.1 million, $1.7 million, and $1.7 million respectively, and after 2002 will
total $17.8 million.

6.  JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

The Company and Mississippi Power jointly own Plant Daniel, a steam-electric
generating plant located in Jackson County, Mississippi. In accordance with an
operating agreement, Mississippi Power acts as the Company's agent with respect
to the construction, operation, and maintenance of the plant.

   The Company and Georgia Power jointly own Plant Scherer Unit No. 3. Plant
Scherer is a steam-electric generating plant located near Forsyth, Georgia. In
accordance with an operating agreement, Georgia Power acts as the Company's
agent with respect to the construction, operation, and maintenance of the unit.

   The Company's pro rata share of expenses related to both plants is included
in the corresponding operating expense accounts in the Statements of Income.

   At December 31, 1997, the Company's percentage ownership and its investment
in these jointly owned facilities were as follows:

                                    Plant Scherer      Plant
                                     Unit No. 3        Daniel
                                    (coal-fired)    (coal-fired)
                                   ------------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Plant In Service                       $185,723(1)     $222,230
Accumulated Depreciation                $58,219        $108,176
Construction Work in Progress              $282            $231

Nameplate Capacity (2)
   (megawatts)                              205             500
Ownership                                    25%             50%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Includes net plant acquisition adjustment.
(2)  Total megawatt nameplate capacity:
       Plant Scherer Unit No. 3:  818
       Plant Daniel:  1,000

7.  LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

The Company and the other operating affiliates have long-term contractual
agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain non-affiliated
utilities located outside the system's service area. The unit power sales
agreements are firm and pertain to capacity related to specific generating
units. Because the energy is generally sold at cost under these agreements,
revenues from capacity sales primarily affect profitability. The capacity


                                       II-168


NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

revenues from these sales were $24.9 million in 1997, $25.4 million in 1996, and
$25.9 million in 1995.

   Unit power from specific generating plants of Southern Company is
currently being sold to Florida Power Corporation (FPC), Florida Power &
Light Company (FP&L), Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA), and the City
of Tallahassee, Florida. Under these agreements, 211 megawatts of net
dependable capacity were sold by the Company during 1997, and sales will
remain at that level until the expiration of the contracts in 2010,
unless reduced by FPC, FP&L and JEA after 2000.

   Capacity and energy sales to FP&L, the Company's largest single
customer, provided revenues of $25.4 million in 1997, $27.2 million in
1996, and $25.4 million in 1995, or 4.1 percent, 4.3 percent, and 4.1
percent of operating revenues, respectively.

8.  INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1997, the tax-related regulatory assets to be recovered
from customers were $26.6 million. These assets are attributable to tax
benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to
capitalized AFUDC. At December 31, 1997, the tax-related regulatory liabilities
to be credited to customers were $56.9 million. These liabilities are
attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than
current enacted tax law and to unamortized investment tax credits.


    Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:

                                      1997        1996       1995
                                ----------------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Total provision for income taxes:
Federal--
   Currently payable              $34,522     $31,022     $29,018
   Deferred --current year         19,297      26,072      23,172
            --reversal of
                prior years       (25,778)    (24,780)    (23,116)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   28,041      32,314      29,074
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
State--
   Currently payable                5,975       4,394       4,778
   Deferred --current year          2,868       3,904       3,313
            --reversal of
                prior years        (3,434)     (3,039)     (2,979)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    5,409       5,259       5,112
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              33,450      37,573      34,186
Less income taxes charged
   (credited) to other income      (1,584)       (248)        121
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes charged
   to operations                  $35,034     $37,821     $34,065
==================================================================

   The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

                                                  1997        1996
                                            ----------- -----------
                                                (in thousands)
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Accelerated depreciation                   $156,328    $151,664
   Property basis differences                   19,220      21,028
   Other                                        14,242      17,622
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          189,790     190,314
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Federal effect of state deferred taxes        9,268       9,773
   Postretirement benefits                       6,976       5,767
   Other                                        10,861       7,814
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           27,105      23,354
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                   162,685     166,960
Less current portion, net                      (3,617)       3,103
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income
   taxes in the Balance Sheets              $166,302    $163,857
===================================================================

   Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation and amortization in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in


                                      II-169



NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

this manner amounted to $2.2 million in 1997 and $2.3 million in 1996 and 1995.
At December 31, 1997, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal
income taxes payable had been utilized.

   A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                     1997      1996      1995
                                  --------- --------- ---------
Federal statutory rate                 35%      35%       35%
State income tax,
   net of federal deduction            4         4         4
Non-deductible book
   depreciation                        1         1         1
Difference in prior years'
   deferred and current tax rate      (1)       (1)       (3)
Other, net                            (4)       (2)       (2)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate             35%       37%       35%
===============================================================

   The Company and the other subsidiaries of Southern Company file a
consolidated federal tax return. Under a joint consolidated income tax
agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the parent company are allocated
to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable income to total consolidated
taxable income.

9.  COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY
    REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES

In January 1997, Gulf Power Capital Trust I (Trust I), of which the Company owns
all of the common securities, issued $40 million of 7.625 percent mandatorily
redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of Trust I are
$41 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.625 percent junior
subordinated notes due December 31, 2036.

   In January 1998, Gulf Power Capital Trust II (Trust II), of which the Company
also owns all of the common securities, issued $45 million of 7.0 percent
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of
Trust II are $46 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.0 percent
junior subordinated notes due December 31, 2037.

   The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to the
preferred securities, taken together, constitute a full and unconditional
guarantee by the Company of payment obligations with respect to the preferred
securities of Gulf Power Capital Trust I and Trust II.

   Gulf Power Capital Trust I and Trust II are subsidiaries of the Company, and
accordingly are consolidated in the Company's financial statements.

10.  POLLUTION CONTROL OBLIGATIONS AND
     OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of pollution control obligations and other long-term debt at December 31
are as follows:

                                             1997         1996
                                     --------------------------
                                         (in thousands)
Obligations incurred in
   connection with the sale by
   public authorities of
   tax-exempt pollution control
   revenue bonds:
   Collateralized
     5.25% due 2006                       $12,075      $12,075
     8.25% due 2017                             -       32,000
     6.75% due 2022                             -        8,930
     Variable Rate due 2022
       Remarketable daily                  40,930            -
     5.70% due 2023                         7,875        7,875
     5.80% due 2023                        32,550       32,550
     6.20% due 2023                        13,000       13,000
     6.30% due 2024                        22,000       22,000
     Variable Rate due 2024
       Remarketable daily                  20,000       20,000
     5.50% due 2026                        21,200       21,200
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                         $169,630   $169,630
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Other long-term debt:
   5.2125% due 1996-1998                    5,754       16,823
   6.44% due 1994-1998                      2,573        7,476
   Variable Rate due 1999                  13,500       13,500
   Variable Rate due 1999                  13,500       13,500
   7.5% Junior Subordinated
     Note due 2037                         20,000            -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                           55,327       51,299
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                    $224,957     $220,929
===============================================================

   Pollution control obligations represent installment purchases of pollution
control facilities financed by funds derived from sales by public authorities of
revenue bonds. With respect to the collateralized pollution control revenue


                                       II-170

NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1997 Annual Report

bonds, the Company has executed and delivered to trustees a like principal
amount of first mortgage bonds, or in the case of the $40.9 million issue a deed
of trust, as security for obligations under collateralized installment
agreements. The principal and interest on the first mortgage bonds will be
payable only in the event of default under the agreements.

   The estimated annual maturities of other long-term debt are as follows: 
$8.3 million in 1998 and $27 million in 1999.

11. SECURITIES DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirement and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt and preferred stock due within one year at
December 31 is as follows:

                                              1997        1996
                                         ----------------------
                                               (in thousands)
Bond improvement fund requirement        $   1,300  $    1,550
Less:  Portion to be satisfied by
       certifying property additions         1,300       1,550
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Cash sinking fund requirement                    -           -
Maturities of first mortgage bonds          45,000      25,000
Current portion of other long-term
   debt (Note 10)                            8,327      15,972
Redemption of preferred stock                    -      24,500
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                      $53,327     $65,472
===============================================================

   The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirement amounts to 1
percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the indenture
prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to collateralize
pollution control obligations. The requirement may be satisfied by depositing
cash, reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal to 1 and 2/3
times the requirement.

12.  COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

The Company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various common stock
dividend restrictions which remain in effect as long as the bonds are
outstanding. At December 31, 1997, retained earnings of $127 million were
restricted against the payment of cash dividends on common stock under the terms
of the mortgage indenture.

   The Company's charter previously limited cash dividends on common stock to 50
percent of net income available for such stock during a prior period of 12
months if the capitalization ratio is below 20 percent and to 75 percent of such
net income if such ratio is 20 percent or more but less than 25 percent. The
capitalization ratio is defined as the ratio of common stock equity to total
capitalization, including retained earnings, adjusted to reflect the payment of
the proposed dividend. At December 31, 1997, the ratio was 50.4 percent. These
restrictions were removed by a vote of preferred shareholders on December 10,
1997.

13.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1997 and 1996 are as follows:

                                                       Net Income
                                                  After Dividends
                       Operating      Operating      on Preferred
Quarter Ended           Revenues         Income             Stock
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    (in thousands)
March 31, 1997          $141,374        $20,212           $10,740
June 30, 1997            145,292         19,153            10,386
Sept. 30, 1997           193,710         34,750            27,484
Dec. 31, 1997            145,480         15,068             9,000

March 31, 1996          $154,921        $20,201           $11,258
June 30, 1996            153,821         21,565            12,581
Sept. 30, 1996           179,619         32,568            23,721
Dec. 31, 1996            146,004         19,458            10,285
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

   The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions and the
timing of rate changes, among other factors.


                                       II-171




                                      II-172






                                      II-173A

  




                                      II-173B







                                      II-173C











                                      II-175A





                                      II-175B

    



                                    II-175C











                                     II-177A





                                    II-177B




                                    II-177C





 
                                                          II-178




 
                                                          II-179A     




 
                                                          II-179B





 
                                                 II-179C



                                     II-180






                                    II-181A




                                    II-181B




                                    II-181C




                                     II-182




                                    II-183A





                                    II-183B





                                     II-183C

                       




                                     II-184






                                     II-185



                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

                               FINANCIAL SECTION



                                     II-186





MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

The management of Mississippi Power Company has prepared--and is responsible
for--the financial statements and related information included in this report.
These statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include amounts that
are based on best estimates and judgments of management. Financial information
throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial statements.

    The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based upon a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The Company believes its system of
internal accounting control maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the internal audit staff. The Company's independent public
accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system in
order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of four directors
who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
reporting and control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with
management, the internal auditors, and the independent public accountants to
ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls, and financial reporting matters. The internal
auditors and independent public accountants have access to the members of the
audit committee at any time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows
of Mississippi Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.




/s/ Dwight H. Evans
Dwight H. Evans
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/  Michael W. Southern
Michael W. Southern
Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer

February 11, 1998




                                      II-187



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



To the Board of Directors of
Mississippi Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Mississippi Power Company (a Mississippi corporation and a wholly owned
subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
related statements of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting 
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also 
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates 
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-196 through II-211)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Mississippi Power Company as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.





/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 11, 1998



                                       II-188



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL 
 CONDITION
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Mississippi Power Company's net income after dividends on preferred stock for
1997 was $54.0 million, reflecting a 2.4 percent or $1.3 million increase above
1996. The increased earnings is due to lower operating expenses.

    In 1996, earnings were $52.7 million, up $0.2 million from the prior year.
Earnings reflected a modest increase in energy sales, an annual retail rate
decrease of $3.0 million under the Environmental Compliance Overview Plan (ECO
Plan) and an annual retail increase of $4.5 million under the Performance
Evaluation Plan (PEP) which became effective in October 1996.

Revenues

The following table summarizes the factors impacting operating revenues for the
past three years:

                                      Increase (Decrease)
                                        from Prior Year
                              -------------------------------------
                                  1997       1996         1995
                              -------------------------------------
                                       (in thousands)
    Retail --
       Change in base
        rates (PEP and
        ECO Plan)            $ 3,177       $   (402)     $  2,694
       Sales growth              109         11,187         4,045
       Weather                (1,118)        (5,585)        4,513
       Fuel cost
        recovery
        and other                948         (1,255)        3,806
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total retail               3,116          3,945        15,058
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Sales for resale --
       Non-affiliates          5,464          7,776         3,698
       Affiliates            (11,606)        14,139        (1,847)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total sales for
       resale                 (6,142)        21,915         1,851
    Other operating
       revenues                2,585          1,616           482
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating
       revenues             $   (441)       $27,476       $17,391
    ===============================================================
    Percent change              (0.1)%          5.3%         3.5%
    ---------------------------------------------------------------

Retail revenues in 1997 were $417 million, up 0.8 percent from the corresponding
amount in 1996. The increase in retail revenues was primarily caused by the
October 1996 PEP retail rate increase, as mentioned above, and the January 1997
ECO Plan retail rate increase of $0.9 million. Retail revenues for 1996 when
compared to 1995 reflected a 1.0 percent increase due to modest growth in energy
sales to industrial, commercial and residential customers, as well as changes in
retail revenues due to the ECO Plan and PEP. Changes in base rates reflect any
rate changes made under the PEP and ECO Plan.

    Under the fuel cost recovery provision, recorded fuel revenues are equal to
recorded fuel expenses, including the fuel component and the operation and
maintenance component of purchased energy. Therefore, changes in recoverable
fuel expenses are offset with corresponding changes in fuel revenues and have no
effect on net income.

    Energy sales to non-affiliates include economy sales and amounts sold under
short-term contracts. Sales for resale to non-affiliates are influenced by those
utilities' own customer demand, plant availability, and the cost of their
predominant fuels -- oil and natural gas.

    Included in sales for resale to non-affiliates are revenues from rural
electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern
Mississippi. Energy sales to these customers increased 3.6 percent in 1997 and
6.4 percent in 1996, with the related revenues rising 1.6 percent and 7.1
percent, respectively. The customer demand experienced by these utilities is
determined by factors very similar to Mississippi Power's.

    Sales for resale to non-territorial utilities are primarily under long-term
contracts consisting of capacity and energy components. Capacity revenues
reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the
contracts. Energy is generally sold at variable cost. Under these long-term
contracts, the capacity and energy components were:

                          1997         1996           1995
                        -------------------------------------
                                    (in thousands)
   Capacity            $       8     $     -        $   268
   Energy                  1,896       3,761          3,627
   ----------------------------------------------------------
   Total                  $1,904      $3,761         $3,895
   ==========================================================

    Capacity revenues for Mississippi Power varied due to changes in the
contracts and in the allocation of transmission capacity revenues throughout the
Southern electric system. Most of the Company's capacity revenues are derived
from transmission charges.



                                       II-189



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report


    Sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of
generating resources at each company. These sales have no material impact on
earnings.

    Below is a breakdown of kilowatt-hour sales for 1997 and the percent change
for the last three years:

                          Amount           Percent Change
    (millions of       -----------   ------------------------------
    kilowatt-hours)      1997         1997        1996      1995
                       ----------    ------------------------------
   Residential           2,039         (2.0)%       1.9%     6.2%
   Commercial            2,408          4.0         3.3      6.7
   Industrial            3,982          0.6         3.8     (0.9)
   Other                    40          2.6         1.9      1.1
                       ----------
   Total retail          8,469          0.9         3.2      2.9
   Sales for
      resale --
       Non-affiliates    2,895          6.2         9.4     (2.4)
       Affiliates          479        (31.0)      184.7     39.7
                       ----------
   Total                11,843          0.2         8.7      2.2
   ================================================================

    Total retail energy sales for 1997 compared to 1996 and for 1996 compared to
1995 increased primarily due to growth in the number of customers served by the
Company.

    The Company anticipates continued growth in energy sales as the economy
improves within its service area. The casino industry and ancillary services,
such as lodging, food, transportation, etc., are some of the factors which may
influence the economy of the Company's service area. Also, energy demand is
expected to grow as a result of a larger and more fully employed population.

Expenses

Total operating expenses for 1997 were $466 million, reflecting a decrease of
$1.3 million or 0.3 percent when compared to the corresponding amount in 1996.
The decrease was due primarily to lower administrative and general expenses. In
1996, total operating expenses increased by 6.6 percent when compared to the
prior year due to higher fuel expenses, higher maintenance and higher
depreciation and amortization.

      Fuel costs are the single largest expense for the Company. Fuel expenses
for 1997 when compared to 1996 increased by 0.4 percent due to a 1.1 percent
increase in generation. The increase in generation was due to the higher demand
for energy in the retail sector. In 1997, expenses related to purchased power
from non-affiliates decreased 19.1 percent and expenses related to purchased
power from affiliates increased 13.7 percent due to the increased availability
of energy within the Southern electric system.

      A comparison of 1996 to 1995 fuel costs reflects an increase that was due
to a 21.7 percent increase in generation. This increased generation was due to
higher demand for energy across the Southern electric system. Further, the
higher demand for energy resulted in higher purchased power costs from
non-affiliates and lower purchased power from affiliates of the Southern
electric system.

    Purchased power consists mainly of energy purchases from affiliates in the
Southern electric system. Purchased power transactions (both sales and
purchases) among Mississippi Power and its affiliates will vary from period to
period depending on demand and the availability and variable production cost at
each generating unit in the Southern electric system.

                                       II-190


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report


      The amount and sources of energy supply, the average cost of fuel per net
kilowatt-hour generated, and the total average cost of energy supply (including
purchased power) were as follows:

                                   1997     1996      1995
                                ------------------------------
Total generation
   (millions of
   kilowatt-hours)               10,289     10,180    8,368
Sources of energy
   supply (percent) --
     Coal                            70         70       58
     Gas                             13         12       15
     Oil                              *          *        *
     Purchased Power                 17         18       27
Average cost of fuel per
   net kilowatt-hour
   generated (cents) --
     Coal                          1.44       1.43     1.58
     Gas                           3.54       4.24     2.32
     Oil                              -       5.71     6.21
Total average cost
   of energy supply                1.57       1.56     1.53
- --------------------------------------------------------------
* Not meaningful because of minimal generation from the fuel source.

    Other operation expense in 1997 decreased 3.5 percent from the amount
recorded in 1996. The decrease was due to lower administrative and general
expenses.

    Maintenance expenses in 1996 when compared to 1995 increased due to the
timing of maintenance performed at Plants Daniel and Watson, as well as other
projects.

    In 1996, as compared to 1995, depreciation and amortization increased
primarily due to additional plant investment, higher depreciation rates
beginning in 1996, and increased amortization of regulatory assets.

    Comparisons of taxes other than income taxes for 1997 to 1996 and for 1996
to 1995 show increases of 1.1 percent and 2.6 percent, respectively, due to
higher municipal franchise taxes resulting from higher retail revenues.

Effects of Inflation

Mississippi Power is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are
based on the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an
economic loss because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in
dollars that have less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been
relatively low in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the
Company because of the large investment in long-lived utility plant.
Conventional accounting for historical costs does not recognize this economic
loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities
with fixed-money obligations, such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any
recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of
return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from regulatory matters to energy sales growth to a
less regulated more competitive environment. Expenses are subject to constant
review and cost control programs. See Note 2 to the financial statements under
"Workforce Reduction Programs" for information regarding the Company's workforce
reduction plan of 1997.

    The Company currently operates as a vertically integrated company providing
electricity to customers within its traditional service area located in 
southeastern Mississippi. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to
retail customers are set by the MPSC under cost-based regulatory principles.

    Mississippi Power is also maximizing the utility of invested capital and
minimizing the need for capital by refinancing, decreasing the average fuel
stockpile, raising generating plant availability and efficiency, and
aggressively controlling the construction budget.

    Operating revenues will be affected by any changes in rates under the PEP,
the Company's performance based ratemaking plan, and the ECO Plan. PEP has
proven to be a stabilizing force on electric rates, with only moderate changes
in rates taking place. The ECO Plan provides for recovery of costs (including
costs of capital) associated with environmental projects approved by the
Mississippi Public Service Commission (MPSC), most of which are required to
comply with Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air Act) regulations. The
ECO Plan is operated independently of PEP. The Clean Air Act and other important
environmental items are discussed later under "Environmental Matters."


                                       II-191



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates the Company's
wholesale rate schedules, power sales contracts and transmission facilities. The
FERC is currently reviewing the rate of return on common equity included in
these schedules and contracts and may require such returns to be lowered,
possibly retroactively.

    Further discussion of PEP, the ECO Plan, and proceedings before the FERC is
found in Note 3 to the financial statements herein.

    Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
which is subject to a number of factors. These factors include weather,
competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the rate of
economic growth in Mississippi Power's service area.

    The electric utility industry in the United States is currently undergoing a
period of dramatic change as a result of regulatory and competitive factors.
Among the primary agents of change has been the Energy Policy Act of 1992
(Energy Act). The Energy Act allows Independent Power Producers (IPPs) to access
a utility's transmission network in order to sell electricity to other
utilities. This enhances the incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for
a utility's large industrial and commercial customers and sell energy generation
to other utilities. Also, electricity sales for resale rates are being driven
down by wholesale transmission access and numerous potential new energy
suppliers, including power marketers and brokers. The Company is aggressively
working to maintain and expand its share of wholesale sales in the Southeastern
power markets.

    Although the Energy Act does not permit retail transmission access, it has
been a catalyst for some emerging restructuring and consolidation within the
utility industry. There are federal and various state initiatives in various
stages which would promote wholesale and retail competition. Certain of these
initiatives would result in some form of separation of generation, transmission
and distribution facilities. As these changes take place the structure of the
utility industry could change. Restructuring initiatives are being discussed in
Mississippi; none have been enacted to date. Enactment would have to encompass
the resolution of numerous complex legislative, jurisdictional, financial and
operational issues. 

     Mississippi Power is subject to the provisions of Financial
Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of
Certain Types of Regulation. In the event that a portion of the Company's
operations is no longer subject to these provisions, the Company would be
required to write off related regulatory assets and liabilities that are not
specifically recoverable, and determine if any other assets have been impaired.
See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Regulatory Assets and Liabilities"
for additional information. The inability of Mississippi Power to recover its
investment, including regulatory assets, could have a material adverse effect on
the financial condition of the Company.

    The Company is attempting to minimize or reduce its cost exposure.
Continuing to be a low-cost producer could provide significant opportunities to
increase market share and profitability in markets that evolve with changing
regulation. Conversely, unless Mississippi Power remains a low-cost producer and
provides quality service, the Company's retail energy sales growth could be
limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

    The Company is heavily dependent upon complex computer systems for all
phases of its operations. The year 2000 issue--common to most
corporations--concerns the inability of certain software and databases to
properly recognize date sensitive information related to the year 2000 and
thereafter. This problem could result in a material disruption to the company's
operations, if not corrected. Mississippi Power has assessed and developed a
detailed strategy to prevent or at least minimize problems related to the year
2000 issue. In 1997, resources were committed and implementation began to modify
the affected information systems. Total costs related to the project are
estimated to be approximately $4.8 million, of which $0.5 million was spent in
1997. Most all remaining costs will be expensed in 1998. Implementation is
currently on schedule. Although, the degree of success of this project cannot be
determined at this time, management believes that there will be no significant
effect on the Company's operations.


                                       II-192

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report


Exposure to Market Risk

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market
volatility in interest rates and prices of electricity. To mitigate residual
risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into fixed
price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale
electricity market. Realized gains and losses are recognized in the income
statement as incurred. At December 31, 1997, exposure from these activities was
not material to the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash
flows.

New Accounting Standards

The FASB has issued Statement No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, which
will be effective in 1998. This statement establishes standards for reporting
and display of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general
purpose financial statements. The objective of the statement is to report a
measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise that result from transactions
and other economic events of the period other than transactions with owners
(comprehensive income). Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all
other non-owner changes in equity. The Company will adopt the new rules in 1998.

    The FASB has issued Statement No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. Southern Company adopted the new rules
effective December 31, 1997. This statement requires that a public business
enterprise report financial and descriptive information about its reportable
operating segments. This statement also establishes standards for related
disclosures about products and services, geographic areas, and major customers.
Mississippi Power adopted the new rules in 1997, and they did not have any
significant impact on the Company's financial reporting. However, this
conclusion may change as industry restructuring and competitive factors
influence the Company's operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

The principal change in Mississippi Power's financial condition during 1997 was
gross property additions to utility plant of $55 million. Funding for gross
property additions and other capital requirements has been provided from
operating activities, principally earnings and the non-cash charges to income of
depreciation and amortization, and the issuance of preferred securities. The
Statements of Cash Flows provide additional details.

Financing Activity

Retirements, including maturities during 1997, primarily related to preferred
stock, totaled some $42 million. In February 1997, Mississippi Power Capital
Trust I (Trust I), of which the Company owns all the common securities, issued
$35 million of 7.75 percent mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.
Substantially all of the assets of Trust I are $36 million aggregate principal
amount of the Company's 7.75 percent junior subordinated notes due February 15,
2037. (See the Statements of Cash Flows for further details.) Composite
financing rates for the years 1995 through 1997 as of year-end were as follows:

                                   1997      1996       1995
                                 -----------------------------
   Composite interest rate on
       long-term debt              6.16%     6.03%    6.63%

   Composite preferred stock
       dividend rate               6.33%     6.58%    6.58%

   Composite interest rate on
       preferred securities        7.75%     -        -
   -----------------------------------------------------------

    The decrease in the composite dividend rate on preferred stock in 1997 is
primarily the result of retirements.

Capital Structure

At year-end 1997, the Company's ratio of common equity to total capitalization,
excluding long-term debt due within one year, was 52.0 percent, compared to 48.9
percent in 1996. The increase in equity ratio in 1997 is attributed to the
reclassification of $35 million of long-term debt to a current liability.

Capital Requirements for Construction

The Company's projected construction expenditures for the next three years total
$450 million ($67 million in 1998, $92 million in 1999, and $291 million in
2000). The major emphasis within the construction program will be on the upgrade
of existing facilities and the addition of combined cycle generation. In 1998,
Mississippi Power received approval from the MPSC to build up to 1,000 megawatts
of natural gas-fired combined cycle generation at Plant Daniel. Construction is
expected to begin in 1999.

    Revisions may be necessary because of factors such as changes in business
conditions, revised load projections, the availability and cost of capital, and
changes in environmental regulations, and alternatives such as leasing.



                                       II-193



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds required for the Company's construction program,
approximately $155.1 million will be required by the end of 2000 for present
sinking fund requirements and maturities of long-term debt. Mississippi Power
plans to continue, when economically feasible, to retire higher cost debt and
preferred stock and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market
conditions permit.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- significantly
affected Mississippi Power and the other operating companies of Southern
Company. Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from
fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase I compliance
began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating plants in the Southern
electric system. As a result of Southern Company's compliance strategy, an
additional 22 generating units were brought into compliance with Phase I
requirements. Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired
generating plants will be affected.

    Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled approximately $65
million for Mississippi Power.

    For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. The full impact of Phase II compliance cannot now
be determined with certainty, pending the continuing development of a market for
emission allowances, the completion of EPA regulations, and the possibility of
new emission reduction technologies.

    Mississippi Power's ECO Plan is designed to allow recovery of costs of
compliance with the Clean Air Act, as well as other environmental statutes and
regulations. The MPSC reviews environmental projects and the Company's
environmental policy through the ECO Plan. Under the ECO Plan, any increase in
the annual revenue requirement is limited to 2 percent of retail revenues.
Mississippi Power's management believes that the ECO Plan provides for recovery
of the Clean Air Act costs. See Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Environmental Compliance Overview Plan" for additional information.

    A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

    In July 1997, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) revised the national
ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. This revision
makes the standards significantly more stringent. Also, in October 1997, the EPA
issued a proposed regional ozone rule which-- if implemented-- could require
substantial further reductions in NOx emissions from fossil-fueled generating
facilities. Implementation of the standards and the proposed rule could result
in significant additional compliance costs and capital expenditures that cannot
be determined at this time.

    The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various matters including: emission control strategies for ozone
non-attainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant emissions;
and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new standards will
depend on the development and implementation of applicable regulations.

    The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations, the Company could incur costs to clean up properties currently or
previously owned. Upon identifying potential sites, the Company conducts
studies, when possible, to determine the extent of any required cleanup costs.
Should remediation be determined to be probable, reasonable estimates of costs
to clean up such sites are developed and recognized in the financial statements.
A currently owned site where manufactured gas plant operations were located
prior to the Company's ownership is being investigated for potential
remediation. See Note 3 to the financial statements under "Environmental
Compliance Overview Plan" for additional information.

    Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the


                                       II-194


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; and the Endangered
Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect many areas of the Company's
operations. The full impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this
time.

    Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect the Company. The impact of new legislation -- if any
- -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable
regulations. In addition, the potential exists for lawsuits alleging damages
caused by electromagnetic fields. The likelihood or outcome of such potential
lawsuits cannot be determined at this time.

Sources of Capital

At December 31, 1997, the Company had $76.3 million of unused committed credit
agreements. The Company had no short-term notes payable outstanding at year end
1997.

    It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be derived
from sources similar to those used in the past. These sources were primarily the
issuances of first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, in addition to pollution
control revenue bonds issued for the Company's benefit by public authorities.
Recently, the Company issued trust preferred securities and plans to issue
unsecured debt in 1998. In this regard, Mississippi Power sought and obtained
stockholder approval in 1997 to amend its corporate charter eliminating
restrictions on the amounts of unsecured indebtedness the Company may incur.

    Mississippi Power is required to meet certain coverage requirements
specified in its mortgage indenture and corporate charter to issue new first
mortgage bonds and preferred stock. The Company's coverage ratios are
sufficiently high enough to permit, at present interest rate levels, any
foreseeable security sales. The amount of securities which the Company will be
permitted to issue in the future will depend upon market conditions and other
factors prevailing at that time.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information

This annual report, including the foregoing Management's Discussion and
Analysis, contains forward-looking statements in addition to historical
information. The Company cautions that there are various important factors that
could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the
forward-looking statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such
indicated results will be realized. These factors include legislative and
regulatory initiatives regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric
utility industry; the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition
in the Company's markets; potential business strategies -- including
acquisitions or dispositions of assets or internal restructuring -- that may be
pursued by the Company; state and federal rate regulation; changes in or
application of environmental and other laws and regulations to which the Company
is subject; political, legal and economic conditions and developments; financial
market conditions and the results of financing efforts; changes in commodity
prices and interest rates; weather and other natural phenomena; and other
factors discussed in the reports (including Form 10-K) filed from time to time
by the Company with the SEC.



                                       II-195








                                     II-196







                                     II-197










                                     II-198




                                     II-199





                                     II-200








                                                                
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

                                                                 
1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

General

Mississippi Power Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company,
which is the parent company of five operating companies, Southern Company
Services (SCS), Southern Communications Services (Southern Communications),
Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear Operating Company
(Southern Nuclear), and Southern Energy Solutions, and other direct and indirect
subsidiaries. The operating companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power
Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah Electric
and Power Company) provide electric service in four southeastern states.
Contracts among the companies--dealing with jointly owned generating facilities,
interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power--are
regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) and/or the
Securities and Exchange Commission. SCS provides, at cost, specialized services
to Southern Company and to the subsidiary companies. Southern Communications
provides digital wireless communications services to the operating companies and
also markets these services to the public within the Southeast. Worldwide,
Southern Energy develops and manages electricity and other energy related
projects, including domestic energy trading and marketing. Southern Nuclear
provides services to Southern Company's nuclear power plants. Southern Energy
Solutions develops new business opportunities related to energy products and
services.

    Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. Mississippi Power is also
subject to regulation by the FERC and the Mississippi Public Service Commission
(MPSC). The Company follows generally accepted accounting principles and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the respective
commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and the
actual results may differ from those estimates.

    Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

Mississippi Power is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the Company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited
to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Balance Sheets as of December 31 relate to:

                                            1997         1996
                                       -------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Deferred income taxes                     $21,906      $22,274
Vacation pay                                5,030        4,806
Workforce reduction costs                       -        1,991
Workforce reduction plan of
1997                                       18,236            -
Premium on reacquired debt                  9,508       10,672
Deferred environmental costs                1,583        1,679
Property damage reserve                   (13,991)     (12,955)
Deferred income tax credits               (38,203)     (40,568)
Other, net                                 (2,982)      (2,882)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                   $   1,087     $(14,983)
================================================================

    In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer subject
to the provisions of FASB Statement No. 71, the Company would be required to
write off the net regulatory assets and liabilities related to that portion of
operations that are not specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In
addition, the Company would be required to determine any impairment to other
assets, including plant, and, write down the assets, if impaired, to their fair
value.

Revenues

Mississippi Power accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end
of each fiscal period. The Company's retail and wholesale rates include
provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel, the energy component of
purchased power costs and certain other costs. Retail rates also include


                                       II-202


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in costs for ad valorem taxes and
certain qualifying environmental costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences
between actual allowable amounts and the amounts included in rates.

    The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or
industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1997, uncollectible
accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.

Depreciation

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided by using composite straight-line rates which approximated 3.3 percent
in 1997 and 1996, and 3.2 percent in 1995. When property subject to depreciation
is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of business, its cost
- -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is charged to the
accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property included in the
original cost of the plant are retired when the related property unit is
retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected cost of
removal of facilities.

Income Taxes

Mississippi Power uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income
taxes and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost. This cost includes: materials; labor;
minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction. If applicable, the cost of
maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property are charged to
maintenance expense except for the maintenance of coal cars and a portion of the
railway track maintenance, which are charged to fuel stock. The cost of
replacements of property (exclusive of minor items of property) is charged to
utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

Financial Instruments

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosure About Fair Value of
Financial Instruments, all financial instruments of the Company for which the
carrying amount does not approximate fair value, at December 31 are as follows:
                                    Carrying      Fair
                                    Amount        Value
                                    --------------------
                                         (in millions)
Long-term debt:
    At December 31, 1997              $327          $330
    At December 31, 1996               326           324
Preferred securities:
    At December 31, 1997                35            36
    At December 31, 1996                 -             -
- --------------------------------------------------------

    The fair value for long-term debt and preferred securities was based on
either closing market price or closing price of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission, distribution
and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when
purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when used
or installed.

Provision for Property Damage

Mississippi Power is self-insured for the cost of storm, fire and other
uninsured casualty damage to its property, including transmission and
distribution facilities. As permitted by regulatory authorities, the Company
provided for such costs by charges to income of $1.5 million in each of the
years 1997, 1996 and 1995. The cost of repairing damage resulting from such
events that individually exceed $50 thousand is charged to the accumulated
provision to the extent it is available. Effective January 1995, regulatory
treatment by the MPSC allowed a maximum accumulated provision of $18 million. As
of December 31, 1997, the accumulated provision amounted to $14.0 million.




  
                                     II-203


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report


2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

Mississippi Power has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan
that covers substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on one of
the following formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of
service and a flat-dollar benefit. The Company uses the "entry age normal method
with a frozen initial liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject
to limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the
pension trust are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities. FASB
Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

Mississippi Power also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits
for retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. The Company funds trusts to the extent deductible
under federal income tax regulations or to the extent required by the Company's
regulatory commissions. Amounts funded are primarily invested in debt and equity
securities.

    FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." The cost of postretirement
benefits is reflected in rates on a current basis.


Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The funded status of the plans and reconciliation to amounts reflected in the
Balance Sheets at December 31 are as follows:

                                                 Pension
                                         ------------------------
                                             1997        1996
                                         ------------------------
                                              (in thousands)
   Actuarial present value of 
     benefit obligation:
        Vested benefits                  $102,764     $92,091
        Non-vested benefits                 3,120       5,191
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Accumulated benefit obligation         105,884      97,282
   Additional amounts related to
      projected salary increases           26,247      30,552
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Projected benefit obligation           132,131     127,834
   Less:
      Fair value of plan assets           207,457     179,658
      Unrecognized net gain               (78,936)    (56,674)
      Unrecognized prior service cost       5,819       6,422
      Unrecognized transition asset        (4,904)     (5,449)
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Accrued liability recognized
      in the Balance Sheets             $   2,695      $3,877
   ==============================================================


                                       Postretirement Benefits
                                       ------------------------
                                           1997         1996
                                       ------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
   Actuarial present value of 
     benefit obligation:
       Retirees and dependents          $19,816      $20,841
       Employees eligible to retire       3,691        2,703
       Other employees                   19,910       17,564
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   Accumulated benefit obligation        43,417       41,108
   Less:
       Fair value of plan assets         12,916       10,210
       Unrecognized net (gain)/ loss     (1,980)       1,136
       Unrecognized transition
        obligation                        5,314        5,911
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   Accrued liability recognized in
       the Balance Sheets               $27,167      $23,851
   ============================================================


 

                                      II-204



NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report



    The weighted average rates assumed in the above actuarial calculations were:

                                1997        1996        1995
                              ---------------------------------
   Discount                      7.5%        7.8%       7.3%
   Annual salary increase        5.0         5.3        4.8
   Long-term return on
     plan assets                 8.5         8.5        8.5
   ------------------------------------------------------------

    An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 8.8
percent for 1997, decreasing gradually to 5.5 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation as of December 31, 1997, by $3.3 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net retiree cost by $0.3 million.

    Components of the plans' net cost are shown below:

                                               Pension
                                 --------------------------------
                                   1997         1996       1995
                                 --------------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
   Benefits earned during
      the year                    $4,015     $  3,842    $ 3,636
   Interest cost on
      projected benefit
      obligation                   9,408        9,310      8,434
   Actual (return) loss on
      plan assets                (30,680)     (20,438)   (32,232)
   Net amortization and
      deferral                    16,026        6,442     18,650
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Net pension income            $(1,231)   $    (844)  $ (1,512)
   ==============================================================

    Of the above net pension income, $(0.9) million in 1997, $(0.6) million in
1996, and $(1.1) million in 1995 were recorded in operating expenses, and the
remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.


                                        Postretirement Benefits
                                     ------------------------------
                                        1997      1996       1995
                                     ------------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
   Benefits earned during the year    $  867   $   958     $1,525
   Interest cost on accumulated
      benefit obligation               2,922     2,830      3,442
   Amortization of transition
      obligation over 20 years           362       362      1,027
   Actual (return) loss on
      plan assets                     (1,388)     (990)    (1,436)
   Net amortization and deferral         566       312        851
   ================================================================
   Net postretirement costs           $3,329    $3,472     $5,409
   ================================================================

    Of the above net postretirement costs recorded, $2.6 million in 1997, $2.8
million in 1996, and $3.9 million in 1995 were recorded in operating expenses,
and the remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.

Workforce Reduction Programs

During 1994, Mississippi Power and SCS instituted workforce reduction programs.
The costs of the SCS workforce reduction program were apportioned among the
various entities that form the Southern electric system, with the Company's
portion amounting to $1.4 million. The Company instituted an early retirement
incentive program in April 1994 and deferred the related costs of approximately
$12.9 million. The Company received authority from the MPSC to defer these
costs, as well as its portion of the costs of the SCS program, and to amortize
over a period not to exceed 60 months, beginning no later than January 1995. The
Company expensed $2.0 million, $5.3 million, and $4.0 million of the cost of
these programs in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. In 1997, Mississippi Power
expensed its pro-rata share of the costs for affiliated companies' programs of
$0.5 million.

    In 1997, approximately one hundred employees of Mississippi Power, in
certain areas, including finance, environmental quality and external affairs,
accepted the terms under a workforce reduction plan. The total cost to be
incurred in connection with this voluntary plan is expected to be $18.2 million.
The MPSC approved the deferral and amortization of these program costs over a
period not to exceed 60 months beginning no later than July 1998. The
unamortized balance of this program was $18.2 million at December 31, 1997.

                                       II-205


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

3.  LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

Retail Rate Adjustment Plans

Mississippi Power's retail base rates are set under a Performance Evaluation
Plan (PEP) approved by the MPSC in 1994. PEP was designed with the objective
that the plan would reduce the impact of rate changes on the customer and
provide incentives for Mississippi Power to keep customer prices low. PEP
includes a mechanism for sharing rate adjustments based on the Company's ability
to maintain low rates for customers and on the Company's performance as measured
by three indicators that emphasize price and service to the customer. PEP
provides for semiannual evaluations of Mississippi's performance-based return on
investment. Any change in rates is limited to 2 percent of retail revenues per
evaluation period. PEP will remain in effect until the MPSC modifies or
terminates the plan. In September 1996, the MPSC under PEP approved a retail
revenue increase of $4.5 million (1.06 percent of annual retail revenue) which
became effective in October 1996. There were no PEP retail revenue changes for
1997.

FERC Reviews Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the operating companies' wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar contracts,
including the Company's transmission facilities agreement discussed in Note 5
under "Lease Agreements."

    In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

    In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on
substantially the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a
FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to
meet its burden of proof, and therefore, no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter is pending before the FERC.

    If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all of the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings -- as
well as certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in determining
return on common equity -- and if refunds were ordered, the amount of refunds
could range up to approximately $4.1 million for Mississippi Power at December
31, 1997. Although management believes that rates are not excessive and that
refunds are not justified, the final outcome of this matter cannot now be
determined.

Environmental Compliance Overview Plan

The MPSC approved Mississippi Power's ECO Plan in 1992. The plan establishes
procedures to facilitate the MPSC's overview of the Company's environmental
strategy and provides for recovery of costs (including costs of capital)
associated with environmental projects approved by the MPSC. Under the ECO Plan
any increase in the annual revenue requirement is limited to 2 percent of retail
revenues. However, the plan also provides for carryover of any amount over the 2
percent limit into the next year's revenue requirement. The ECO Plan had
previously resulted in an annual retail rate increase of $3.7 million, effective
in May 1995 which included $1.6 million of 1994 carryover and an annual retail
rate increase of $7.6 million, effective in April 1994. The Company's 1996
annual filing under the ECO Plan resulted in a $3.0 million decrease in retail
rates, effective in April 1996. In 1997, the Company's filing with the MPSC
under the ECO Plan resulted in an annual retail rate increase of $0.9 million.
The 1998 ECO filing, if approved by the MPSC, will result in a small decrease in
customer prices.

    Mississippi Power conducts studies, when possible, to determine the extent
of any required environmental remediation. Should remediation be determined to
be probable, reasonable estimates of costs to clean up such sites are developed
and recognized in the financial statements. A currently owned site where
manufactured gas plant operations were located prior to the Company's ownership
is being investigated for potential remediation. The remedial investigation is
near completion and is being conducted in conjunction with the Mississippi
Department of Environmental Quality. In recognition of probable further study
and remediation, the Company in 1995 recorded a liability and a deferred debit
(regulatory asset) of $1.8 million, including feasibility study costs. The
Company recognizes such costs as they are incurred and recovers them under the



                                       II-206



NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report


ECO Plan as provided in the Company's 1995 ECO order. As of December 31, 1997,
the balance in the liability and regulatory asset accounts was $1.6 million. If
this site were required to be remediated, industry studies show the Company
could incur cleanup costs ranging from $1.5 million to $10 million before giving
consideration to possible recovery of clean-up costs from other parties.

4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

Mississippi Power is engaged in continuous construction programs, the costs of
which are currently estimated to total $67 million in 1998, $92 million in 1999,
and $291 million in 2000.

    The construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and
actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous
factors. These factors include changes in business conditions; revised load 
growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations; increasing costs of 
labor, equipment and materials; and cost of capital. Significant construction 
will continue related to transmission and distribution facilities, the 
upgrading of generating plants, and the addition of combined cycle generation.

5.  FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS

Financing

Mississippi Power's construction program is expected to be financed from
internal and other sources, such as the issuance of additional long-term debt
and preferred stock and the receipt of capital contributions from Southern
Company.

    The amounts of first mortgage bonds and preferred stock which can be issued
in the future will be contingent upon market conditions, adequate earnings
levels, regulatory authorizations and other factors.

    At December 31, 1997, Mississippi Power had total committed credit
agreements with banks for $96.3 million. At year-end 1997, the unused portion of
these committed credit agreements was $76.3 million. These credit agreements
expire at various dates in 1998 and in 2000. Some of these agreements allow
short-term borrowings to be converted into term loans, payable in 12 equal
quarterly installments, with the first installment due at the end of the first
calendar quarter after the applicable termination date or at an earlier date at
the Company's option. In connection with these credit arrangements, the Company
agrees to pay commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments or
to maintain compensating balances with the banks. At December 31, 1997, the
Company had no short-term borrowings outstanding.

Assets Subject to Lien

Mississippi Power's mortgage indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, as amended
and supplemented, which secures the first mortgage bonds issued by the Company,
constitutes a direct first lien on substantially all the Company's fixed
property and franchises.

Lease Agreements

In 1984, Mississippi Power and Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States)
entered into a forty-year transmission facilities agreement whereby Gulf States
began paying a use fee to the Company covering all expenses relative to
ownership and operation and maintenance of a 500 kV line, including amortization
of its original $57 million cost. For the three years ended 1997 use fees
collected under this agreement, net of related expenses, amounted to $3.5
million each year, and are included within Other Income in the Statements of
Income.

    In 1989, Mississippi Power entered into a twenty-two
year lease agreement for the use of 495 aluminum railcars. In 1994, a second
lease agreement for the use of 250 additional aluminum railcars was also entered
into for twenty-two years. The Company has the option to purchase the 745
railcars at the greater of lease termination value or fair market value, or to
renew the leases at the end of the lease term. In 1997, a third lease agreement
for the use of 360 railcars was also entered into for three years, with a
monthly renewal option for up to an additional nine months. All of these leases,
totaling 1,105 railcars, were for the transport of coal at Plant Daniel.

    Gulf Power, as joint owner of Plant Daniel, is responsible for one half of
the lease cost. The Company's share (50%) of the leases, charged to fuel
inventory, was $2.0 million in 1997, and $1.7 million in both 1996 and 1995. The
Company's annual lease payments for 1998 through 2002 will average approximately
$2.2 million and after 2002, lease payments total in aggregate approximately $18
million.

                                       II-207


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants,
Mississippi Power has entered into various long-term commitments for the
procurement of fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for price
escalations, minimum production levels, and other financial commitments.

Total estimated obligations at December 31, 1997 were as follows:

    Year                                       Fuel
                                           (in millions)
    1998                                       $137
    1999                                         88
- ---------------------------------------------------
    Total commitments                          $225
===================================================


Additional commitments for fuel will be required in the future to supply the
Company's fuel needs.

     In 1996, Mississippi Power entered into agreements to purchase options for
summer peaking power for the years 1997 through 2000. The Company has purchased
options from power marketers for up to 250 megawatts of peaking power in 1997;
300 megawatts in 1998; 350 megawatts in 1999; and 400 megawatts in 2000. In
1997, Mississippi Power exercised its option to purchase 250 megawatts of
peaking capacity. In June 1997, the MPSC approved Mississippi Power's request
that it be allowed to earn a return on the capacity portion of this agreement.
Mississippi Power expects to exercise its options to purchase 300 megawatts of
summer peaking capacity in 1998.

6.  JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

Mississippi Power and Alabama Power own as tenants in common Units 1 and 2 at
Greene County Electric Generating Plant (coal) located in Alabama; and
Mississippi Power and Gulf Power own as tenants in common Daniel Electric
Generating Plant (coal) located in Mississippi. At December 31, 1997,
Mississippi Power's percentage ownership and investment in these jointly owned
facilities were as follows:

                                            Company's
   Generating         Total      Percent      Gross    Accumulated
      Plant          Capacity   Ownership   Investment Depreciation
                   (Megawatts)                  (in thousands)
   Greene
    County
    Units 1 and  2    500         40%      $ 63,206       $30,168

   Daniel           1,000         50%       220,984        92,484
   ----------------------------------------------------------------

    Mississippi Power's share of plant operating expenses is included in the
corresponding operating expenses in the Statements of Income.

7.  LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

Mississippi Power and the other operating affiliates of Southern Company have
long-term contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain
non-affiliated utilities located outside the system's service area. Because the
energy is generally sold at cost under these agreements, profitability is
primarily affected by revenues from capacity sales. The capacity revenues have
been $8,000 in 1997; $0 in 1996; and $268,000 in 1995.

8.  INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1997, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $22
million and $38 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to tax
benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to
capitalized AFUDC. These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes
previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.

                                       II-208


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are shown below:

                                     1997        1996       1995
                                 ---------------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
   Total provision for
      income taxes
   Federal --
      Currently payable           $27,651     $29,888    $32,546
      Deferred  --current year      8,171      13,816      5,122
                --reversal of
                 prior years       (9,236)    (14,913)    (7,039)
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                   26,586      28,791     30,629
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   State --
      Currently payable             5,537       3,588      3,426
      Deferred  --current year      1,756       4,727      2,270
                --reversal of
                 prior years       (2,499)     (3,556)      (833)
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                    4,794       4,759      4,863
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                           31,380      33,550     35,492
   Less income taxes charged
      to other income                (588)        932      1,006
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Federal and state
      income taxes charged
      to operations               $31,968     $32,618    $34,486
   ===============================================================


    The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

                                        1997             1996
                                   -----------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
   Deferred tax liabilities:
      Accelerated depreciation      $149,941         $148,667
      Basis differences               10,037           10,507
      Other                           25,097           19,285
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                             185,075          178,459
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Deferred tax assets:
      Other property
       basis differences              23,139           24,434
      Pension and
            other benefits             9,803            8,750
      Property insurance               5,351            4,955
      Unbilled fuel                      802            2,808
      Other                           19,714           11,302
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                              58,809           52,249
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Net deferred tax
      liabilities                    126,266          126,210
   Portion included in
      current assets, net              8,379            7,227
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Accumulated deferred
      income taxes in the
      Balance Sheets                $134,645         $133,437
   =============================================================

    Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $1.2 million in 1997, $1.4 million in 1996, and $1.5 million in
1995. At December 31, 1997, all investment tax credits available to reduce
federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

    A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                    1997      1996       1995
                                   -----------------------------
   Total effective tax rate          37%       37%        38%
   State income tax, net of
      federal income tax benefit     (3)       (3)        (3)
   Tax rate differential              1         1          -
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Statutory federal tax rate        35%       35%        35%
   =============================================================

                                       II-209



NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report

    Mississippi Power and the subsidiaries of Southern Company file a
consolidated federal income tax return. Under a joint consolidated income tax
agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the parent company are allocated
to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable income to total consolidated
taxable income.

9. COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES

In February 1997, Mississippi Power Capital Trust I (Trust I), of which the
Company owns all the common securities, issued $35 million of 7.75 percent
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of
Trust I are $36 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.75 percent
junior subordinated notes due February 15, 2037.

10. OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of pollution control obligations and other long-term debt are as
follows:

                                                 December 31,
                                              1997        1996
                                          ---------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Obligations incurred in
  connection with the sale by
  public authorities of
  tax-exempt pollution control
  revenue bonds:
     5.8$% due 2007                         $   950       $ 960
     Variable rate due 2020                   6,550       6,550
     Variable rate due 2022                  16,750      16,750
     6.20% due 2023                          13,000      13,000
     5.65% due 2023                          25,875      25,875
     Variable due 2025                       10,600      10,600
   ------------------------------------------------------------
                                             73,725      73,735
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   Other long-term debt:
     Variable rates (6.10875% to
       6.18984% at 1/1/98) due 1999         50,000       50,000
   Variable rate due 2000                   30,000       30,000
   ------------------------------------------------------------
                                            80,000       80,000
   ------------------------------------------------------------
      Total                               $153,725     $153,735
   ============================================================

    Pollution control obligations represent installment or
lease purchases of pollution control facilities financed by application of funds
derived from sales by public authorities of tax-exempt revenue bonds.
Mississippi Power has authenticated and delivered to the Trustee a like
principal amount of first mortgage bonds as security for obligations under
collateralized installment agreements. The principal and interest on the first
mortgage bonds will be payable only in the event of default under these
agreements. The 5.80% series of pollution control obligations has a cash sinking
fund requirement of $20 thousand annually in 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001.

11. LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year is as follows:

                                               1997        1996
                                             -------------------
                                                (in thousands)
   Bond improvement
      fund requirements                      $ 1,750      $1,750
   Less:
      Portion to be satisfied by
      certifying property additions            1,750       1,750
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Redemptions of first mortgage bonds        35,000           -
   Pollution control bond cash
      sinking fund requirements (Note 10)         20          10
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                     $35,020   $      10
   =============================================================

    The first mortgage bond improvement fund requirement is one percent of each
outstanding series authenticated under the indenture of Mississippi Power prior
to January 1 of each year, other than first mortgage bonds issued as collateral
security for certain pollution control obligations. The requirement must be
satisfied by June 1 of each year by depositing cash or reacquiring bonds, or by
pledging additional property equal to 166-2/3 percent of such requirement.

12. COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

Mississippi Power's first mortgage bond indenture and the corporate charter
contain various common stock dividend restrictions. At December 31, 1997,
approximately $118 million of retained earnings was restricted against the
payment of cash dividends on common stock under the most restrictive terms of
the mortgage indenture or corporate charter.



                                       II-210


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1997 Annual Report


13. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1997 and 1996 are as follows:

                                                      Net Income
                                                   After Dividends
   Quarter                Operating    Operating          On
   Ended                  Revenues     Income       Preferred Stock
   -------------------------------------------------------------------

   March 1997               $116,903     $17,132        $ 10,645
   June 1997                 128,915      19,340          12,618
   September 1997            171,874      30,441          25,163
   December 1997             125,896      11,043           5,584

   March 1996               $126,954     $18,074        $ 11,695
   June 1996                 136,749      17,691          11,400
   September 1996            156,603      27,670          21,784
   December 1996             123,723      13,636           7,844

    Mississippi Power's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions
and the timing of rate changes.





                                       II-211







                                       II-212



                                      II-213A



                                      II-213B



                                       II-214



                                      II-215A


                                      II-215B



STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Mississippi Power Company





                                     II-217A


STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Mississippi Power Company



                                    II-217B





                                    II-217C






                                     II-218





( ) Denotes use of cash.

                                    II-219A





                                    II-219B




                                    II-219C






                                     II-220





                                     II-221A





                                    II-221B





                                    II-221C


BALANCE SHEETS
Mississippi Power Company


                                     II-222






                                    II-223A




                             


BALANCE SHEETS
Mississippi Power Company



                                     II-223B




                                    II-223C









                                              II-224




                            MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

                         SECURITIES RETIRED DURING 1997

                             Pollution Control Bonds
                                     Principal                     Interest
      Series                          Amount                         Rate
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                   (Thousands)
       1977                          $   10                         5.80% 


                                 Preferred Stock
                                     Principal                        Dividend
      Series                          Amount                            Rate
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    (Thousands)
       1947                          $ 1,136                        4.60%   
       1956                            3,052                        4.40%
       1965                            3,330                        4.72%
       1992                           35,000                        7.25%
                                     -------
                                     $42,518   
                                     =======

                                     II-225


                           SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

                               FINANCIAL SECTION




                                     II-226







MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report
                                                          
The management of Savannah Electric and Power Company has prepared--and is
responsible for--the financial statements and related information included in
this report. These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily
include amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of
management. Financial information throughout this annual report is consistent
with the financial statements.

     The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The Company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

     The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff. The Company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

     The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of four directors
who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
reporting and control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with
management, the internal auditors and the independent public accountants to
ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls and financial reporting matters. The internal
auditors and the independent public accountants have access to the members of
the audit committee at any time.

     Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

     In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows
of Savannah Electric and Power Company in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.

/s/G. Edison Holland, Jr.
   G. Edison Holland, Jr.
   President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/K. R. Willis
   K. R. Willis
   Vice-President
   Treasurer, Secretary and Chief Financial Officer



February 11, 1998
                                       II-227



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors
of Savannah Electric and Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Savannah Electric and Power Company (a Georgia corporation and a wholly owned
subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the
related statements of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-235 through 11-246)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Savannah Electric and Power Company as of December 31, 1997 and
1996, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.






/s/Arthur Andersen LLP
   Atlanta, Georgia
   February 11, 1998


                                       II-228

                                                            
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Savannah Electric and Power Company's net income after dividends on preferred
stock for 1997 totaled $23.8 million, representing a $0.1 million decrease from
the prior year. This (0.4) percent change in earnings from 1996 is principally
the result of an increase in other operation expense, partially offset by an
increase in other income, net.

     In 1996, earnings were $23.9 million, representing a $0.5 million (2.3
percent) increase from the prior year. This was principally the result of
increased retail energy sales primarily attributable to an increase in the
number of customers served.

Revenues

Total revenues for 1997 were $226.3 million, reflecting a (3.3) percent decrease
compared to 1996. The following table summarizes revenue increases and decreases
compared to prior years:

                                          Increase (Decrease)
                                            From Prior Year
                               --------------------------------------
                                    1997         1996        1995
                               --------------------------------------
  Retail --                                (in thousands)
     Sales growth                $ 7,664      $ 3,679    $  1,068
     Weather                      (6,186)      (2,813)      6,232
     Fuel cost recovery
       and other                 (10,002)      12,365       6,177
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total retail                    (8,524)      13,231      13,477
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Sales for resale--
     Non-affiliates                1,469          147      (2,935)
     Affiliates                   (1,078)      (4,070)        754
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total sales for resale             391       (3,923)     (2,181)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Other operating revenues           336         (963)      2,648
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total operating revenues       $(7,797)     $ 8,345     $13,944
  ===================================================================
  Percent change                    (3.3)%        3.7%        6.6%
  -------------------------------------------------------------------

     Retail revenues declined 3.7 percent in 1997, compared to an increase of
6.2 percent in 1996. The decline in 1997 retail revenues is attributable to the
mild summer weather and a decrease in fuel cost recovery revenues, somewhat
offset by customer growth and higher demand from a large industrial customer.
Under the Company's fuel cost recovery provisions, fuel revenues--including
purchased energy--generally equal fuel expense and have no effect on earnings.

    The increase in 1996 retail revenues was attributable to an increase in the
number of customers served and an increase in fuel cost recovery revenues.
Industrial energy sales were lower primarily due to a decrease in the demand of
a major customer.

     Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area under long-term
contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity revenues reflect
the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the contracts.
Energy is generally sold at variable cost. Capacity revenues remained unchanged
in 1997. The capacity and energy components were as follows:

                     1997             1996          1995
                 ----------------------------------------
                             (in thousands)
Capacity            $  2            $    2        $    3
Energy               746             1,329         1,250
- ---------------------------------------------------------
Total               $748            $1,331        $1,253
=========================================================

     Sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric system vary from
year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating
resources at each company. These sales have little impact on earnings.

     Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the amount of energy sold
each year. Kilowatt-hour sales for 1997 and the percent change by year were as
follows:

                          KWH                Percent Change
                      ------------     ---------------------------
                         1997             1997     1996      1995
                      ------------     ---------------------------
                       (millions)
Residential                 1,428         (1.9)%    3.9%     8.0%
Commercial                  1,156          1.3      3.8       5.1
Industrial                    881          5.1     (5.5)     11.0
Other                         125         (1.4)     0.1       5.4
                      ------------
Total retail                3,590          0.8      1.4       7.7
Sales for resale
  Non-affiliates               94          2.9      4.4     (56.5)
  Affiliates                   55         30.4    (34.4)    (31.5)
                      ------------
Total                       3,739          1.2 %    0.8%      3.1%
===================================================================

                                       II-229



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Expenses

Total operating expenses for 1997 were $189.1 million, reflecting a $6.1 million
decrease from 1996. Major components of this decrease include a $16.5 million
reduction in purchased power from affiliates, partially offset by increases of
$6.4 million in fuel and $3.7 million in other operation expenses. The decline
in purchased power from affiliates was due primarily to an increase in internal
generation and to an adjustment in affiliated billings. The increase in fuel
expense was primarily attributable to higher generation and to fuel mix. The
increase in other operation expense primarily resulted from a one-time charge
for work force reductions of $1.9 million, and expenses associated with the
implementation of a new computer software system.

     In 1996, total operating expenses were $195.2 million, reflecting an $7.7
million increase over 1995. This increase includes $5.3 million in purchased
power from affiliates and $3.8 million in fuel, partially offset by a $1.2
million reduction in other operation expenses. The increase in purchased power
from affiliates was due to an increase in the unit cost of purchased power. The
increase in fuel expense was primarily attributable to higher generation and an
increase in the unit cost of gas. The reduction in other operation expense
primarily resulted from the demand-side management program being discontinued in
December 1995.

     Fuel and purchased power costs constitute the single largest expense for
the Company. The mix of energy supply is determined primarily by system load,
the unit cost of fuel consumed and the availability of units.

     The amount and sources of energy supply, the average cost of fuel per net
kilowatt-hour generated, the average cost of purchased power per net
kilowatt-hour, and the total average cost of energy supply were as follows:

                                         1997     1996     1995
                                      --------------------------
 Total energy supply
    (millions of kilowatt-hours)        3,964    3,917    3,908
 Sources of energy supply
    (percent) --
      Coal                                 34       28       24
      Oil                                   -        -        -
      Gas                                   5        3        6
      Purchased Power                      61       69       70
 Average cost of fuel per net
    Kilowatt-hour generated
    (cents) --
      Coal                               1.91     1.76     1.77
      Oil                                4.73     5.79     5.14
      Gas                                4.62     8.89     3.76
 Average cost of purchased
    power per net kilowatt-
    hour (cents)                         1.86     2.25     2.02
 Total average cost of
    energy supply (cents)                2.02     2.30     2.07
 ---------------------------------------------------------------

Effects of Inflation

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an economic loss
because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in dollars that have
less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in
recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of
the large investment in long-lived utility plant. Conventional accounting for
historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

                                       II-230



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from energy sales growth to a less regulated, more
competitive environment.

     Savannah Electric currently operates as a vertically integrated utility
providing electricity to customers within the traditional service area of
southeastern Georgia. Prices for electricity provided by the Company to retail
customers are set by the Georgia Public Service Commission(GPSC).

     Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
which is subject to a number of factors. These factors include weather,
competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the rate of
economic growth in the Company's service area.

     The electric utility industry in the United States is currently undergoing
a period of dramatic change as a result of regulatory and competitive factors.
Among the primary agents of change has been the Energy Policy Act of 1992
(Energy Act). The Company is positioning the business to meet the challenge of
this major change in the traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy
Act allows independent power producers (IPPs) to access the Company's
transmission network in order to sell electricity to other utilities. This
enhances the incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for industrial and
commercial customers and sell energy generation to other utilities. Also,
electricity sales for resale rates are being driven down by wholesale
transmission access and numerous potential new energy suppliers, including power
marketers and brokers.

     Although the Energy Act does not permit retail customer access, it was a
major catalyst for the current restructuring and consolidation taking place
within the utility industry. Numerous federal and state initiatives are in
varying stages to promote wholesale and retail competition. Among other things,
these initiatives allow customers to choose their electricity provider. As these
initiatives materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically
change. Some states have approved initiatives that result in a separation of the
ownership and/or operation of generating facilities from the ownership and/or
operation of transmission and distribution facilities. While various
restructuring and competition initiatives have been or are being discussed in
Georgia, none have been enacted to date. Enactment would require numerous issues
to be resolved, including significant ones relating to transmission pricing and
recovery of any stranded investments. The inability of the Company to recover
its investments, including the regulatory assets described in Note 1 to the
financial statements, could have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition of the Company. The Company is attempting to minimize or reduce its
cost exposure.

     Continuing to be a low-cost producer could provide significant
opportunities to increase market share and profitability in markets that evolve
with changing regulation. Conversely, unless the Company remains a low-cost
producer and provides quality service, the Company's retail energy sales growth
could be limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

     The Company is heavily dependent upon complex computer systems for all
phases of its operations. The year 2000 issue--common to most
corporations--concerns the inability of certain software and databases to
properly recognize date sensitive information related to the year 2000 and
thereafter. This problem could result in a material disruption to the Company's
operation, if not corrected. The Company has assessed and developed a detailed
strategy to prevent or at least minimize problems related to the year 2000
issue. In 1997, resources were committed and implementation began to modify the
affected information systems. Total costs related to the project for Southern
Company are estimated to be approximately $85 million, of which $8 million was
spent in 1997. The Company's total costs related to the project are estimated to
be approximately $1 million, of which $0.2 million was spent in 1997. Most all
remaining costs will be expensed in 1998. Implementation is currently on
schedule. The degree of success of this project cannot be determined at this
time. However, management believes that the final outcome will not have a
material adverse affect on the operations of the Company.

     Compliance costs related to current and future environmental laws and
regulations could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The
Clean Air Act and other important environmental items are discussed later under
"Environmental Matters."


                                       II-231


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

     Rates to retail customers served by the Company are regulated by the GPSC.
As part of the Company's most recent rate settlement in 1992, it was informally
agreed that the Company's earned rate of return on common equity should be 12.95
percent. The Company is currently undergoing an earnings review by the GPSC, and
to date, the GPSC has made no determination.

     The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to these provisions, the Company would be required to write off related
regulatory assets and liabilities that are not specifically recoverable, and
determine if any other assets have been impaired. See Note 1 to the financial
statements under "Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for additional information.

Exposure to Market Risks

Due to cost-based rate regulation, the Company has limited exposure to market
volatility in interest rates and prices of electricity. To mitigate residual
risks relative to movements in electricity prices, the Company enters into fixed
price contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity through the wholesale
electricity market. Realized gains and losses are recognized in the income
statement as incurred. At December 31, 1997, exposure from these activities was
not material to the Company's financial statements.

New Accounting Standards

The FASB has issued Statement No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, which
will be effective in 1998. This statement establishes standards for reporting
and display of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general
purpose financial statements. The objective of the statement is to report a
measure of all changes in equity of an enterprise that result from transactions
and other economic events of the period other than transactions with owners
(comprehensive income). Comprehensive income is the total of net income and all
other non-owner changes in equity. The Company will adopt this statement in
1998.

     The FASB has issued Statement No. 131, Disclosure about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. This statement requires that a public
business enterprise report financial and descriptive information about its
reportable operating segments. Generally, financial information is required to
be reported on the basis that it is used by the chief operating decision maker
in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. This
statement also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and
services, geographic areas, and major customers. The Company adopted the new
rules in 1997, which do not have a significant impact on the Company's financial
reporting. However, this conclusion may change as industry restructuring and
competitive factors influence the Company's operations.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

The principal change in the Company's financial condition in 1997 was the
addition of $19 million to utility plant. The funds needed for gross property
additions are currently provided from operating activities, principally from
earnings and non-cash charges to income such as depreciation and deferred income
taxes and from financing activities. See Statements of Cash Flows for additional
information.

Capital Structure

As of December 31, 1997, the Company's capital structure consisted of 49.7
percent common equity, 9.9 percent preferred stock and 40.4 percent long-term
debt, excluding amounts due within one year. The Company's long-term financial
objective for capitalization ratios is to maintain a capital structure of common
equity at 48 percent, preferred stock at 10 percent and debt at 42 percent.

     In April 1997, the Company issued $14 million of variable interest rate
pollution control obligations maturing in 2037. Maturities and retirements of
long-term debt were $14 million in 1997, $29 million in 1996 and $29 million in
1995.

     In March 1996, the Company entered into a fifteen year variable rate
capital lease agreement with the Savannah Economic Development Authority for a
coal ship docking and unloading facility at Plant Kraft.



                                       II-232



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

     The composite interest rates and dividend rate for the years 1995 through
1997 as of year-end were as follows:

                                    1997       1996      1995
                                -------------------------------
Composite interest rates
   on long-term debt                 6.9%       7.0%      7.5%
Preferred stock dividend rate        6.6%       6.6%      6.6%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

     The Company's current securities ratings are as follows:
                                                      Standard
                                         Moody's      & Poor's
                                       --------------------------

First Mortgage Bonds                       A1                AA-
Preferred Stock                           "a2"               A
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Capital Requirements for Construction

The Company's projected construction expenditures for the next three years total
$66 million ($22 million in 1998, $23 million in 1999, and $21 million in 2000).
Actual construction costs may vary from this estimate because of factors such as
changes in: business conditions; environmental regulations; load projections;
the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment and materials; and the
cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to
capital expenditures will be fully recovered. The Company does not have any
traditional baseload generating plants under construction, and current energy
demand forecasts do not require any additional traditional baseload facilities
until well into the future. Construction of transmission and distribution
facilities and upgrading of generating plants will be continuing.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately $23
million will be needed by the end of 2000 for maturities of long-term debt and
present sinking fund requirements.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act--the acid rain compliance provision of the law--significantly affected
the Company and other subsidiaries of Southern Company. Specific reductions in
sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from fossil-fired generating plants
are required in two phases. Phase I compliance began in 1995 and initially
affected 28 generating units of Southern Company. As a result of Southern
Company's compliance strategy, an additional 22 generating units, which included
four of the Company's units, were brought into compliance with Phase I
requirements. Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired
generating plants will be affected.

     Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
This compliance strategy resulted in unused emission allowances being banked for
later use. Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled
approximately $2 million for Savannah Electric.

     For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired plants as
necessary to meet Phase II limits. Current compliance strategy for Phase II and
ozone non-attainment could require total estimated construction expenditures for
Southern Company of approximately $70 million, of which $55 million remains to
be spent. Phase II compliance is not expected to have a material impact on
Savannah Electric.

     A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

     In July 1997, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) revised the 
national ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. This
revision makes the standards significantly more stringent. Also, in October
1997, the EPA issued a proposed regional ozone rule that could require
substantial further reductions in NOx emissions from fossil-fueled generating
facilities. Implementation of the standards and the proposed rule could result 
in significant additional compliance costs and capital expenditures that cannot
be determined at this time.

     The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various other matters including: emission control strategies for
ozone non-attainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant


                                       II-233


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.

     The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations, the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties
currently or previously owned. The Company conducts studies to determine the
extent of any required cleanup costs and will recognize in the financial
statements any costs to clean up known sites.

     Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of Southern Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

     Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect Southern Company. The impact of new legislation--if
any--will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable
regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the result of
lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.

Sources of Capital

At December 31, 1997, the Company had $6.1 million of cash and $20.5 million of
unused short-term credit arrangements with banks to meet its short-term cash
needs. Revolving credit arrangements of $20 million, which expire December 31,
2000, are also used to meet short-term cash needs and to provide additional
interim funding for the Company's construction program. Of the revolving credit
arrangements, $20 million remained unused at December 31, 1997.

     It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulation, will be derived
from sources similar to those used in the past. These sources were primarily
from the issuances of first mortgage bonds, other long-term debt and preferred
stock, in addition to pollution control revenue bonds issued for the Company's
benefit by public authorities, to meet long-term external financing
requirements. The Company plans to issue unsecured debt in 1998. The Company is
required to meet certain earnings coverage requirements specified in its
mortgage indenture and corporate charter to issue new first mortgage bonds and
preferred stock. The Company's coverage ratios are sufficiently high to permit,
at present interest rate levels, any foreseeable security sales. The amount of
securities which the Company will be permitted to issue in the future will
depend upon market conditions and other factors prevailing at that time.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information

Savannah Electric and Power Company's 1997 Annual Report contains
forward-looking statements in addition to historical information. The Company
cautions that there are various important factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking
statements; accordingly, there can be no assurance that such indicated results
will be realized. These factors include legislative and regulatory initiatives
regarding deregulation and restructuring of the electric utility industry; the
extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the Company's
markets; potential business strategies--including acquisitions or dispositions
of assets or internal restructuring--that may be pursued by the company; state
and federal rate regulation; changes in or application of environmental and
other laws and regulations to which the Company is subject; political, legal and
economic conditions and developments; financial market conditions and the
results of financing efforts; changes in commodity prices and interest rates;
weather and other natural phenomena; and other factors discussed in the
reports--including Form 10-K--filed from time to time by the Company with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.




                                       II-234






                                       II-235






                                       II-236







                                       II-237







                                       II-238






                                       II-239

PAGE>
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

General

Savannah Electric and Power Company (the Company), is a wholly owned subsidiary
of Southern Company, which is the parent company of five operating companies, a
system service company, Southern Communications Services (Southern
Communications), Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear
Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), Southern Company Energy Solutions, and
other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The operating companies provide electric
service in four southeastern states. Contracts among the companies--dealing with
jointly owned generating facilities, interconnecting transmission lines, and the
exchange of electric power--are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC) and/or the Securities and Exchange Commission. The system
service company provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and
subsidiary companies. Southern Communications provides digital wireless
communications services to the operating companies and also markets these
services to the public within the Southeast. Worldwide, Southern Energy develops
and manages electricity and other energy related projects, including domestic
energy trading and marketing. Southern Nuclear provides services to Southern
Company's nuclear power plants. Southern Company Energy Solutions develops new
business opportunities related to energy products and services.

     Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its
subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The Company
also is subject to regulation by the FERC and the Georgia Public Service
Commission (GPSC). The Company follows generally accepted accounting principles
and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the GPSC.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may
differ from those estimates.

     Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the Company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are expected to be credited
to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Balance Sheets at December 31 relate to:

                                           1997          1996
                                    ---------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Deferred income taxes                  $ 17,267      $ 19,167
Premium on reacquired debt                7,121         7,142
Deferred income tax credits             (21,469)      (22,792)
Storm damage reserves                    (1,500)         (900)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                  $  1,419      $  2,617
===============================================================

     In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the Company would be required to
write off related net regulatory assets and liabilities that are not
specifically recoverable through regulated rates. In addition, the Company would
be required to determine if any impairment to other assets exists, including
plant, and write down the assets, if impaired, to their fair value.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

The Company accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period. Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The Company's
electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel,
the energy component of purchased power costs, and certain other costs. Revenues
are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts actually
recovered in current rates.

    The Company has a diversified base of customers.  No single customer or
industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues.  In 1997, uncollectible
accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.


                                       II-240


NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report


Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
2.9 percent in 1997, 2.8 percent in 1996 and 2.9 percent in 1995. When property
subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course
of business, its cost--together with the cost of removal, less salvage--is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected cost
of removal of certain facilities.

Income Taxes

The Company, which is included in the consolidated federal income tax return
filed by Southern Company, uses the liability method of accounting for deferred
income taxes and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction
    (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The composite rates used by the Company to calculate AFUDC
were 9.24 percent in 1997, 8.69 percent in 1996 and 7.42 percent in 1995.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost, which includes: materials; labor;
minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and AFUDC.
The cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is
charged to maintenance expense. The cost of replacements of property (exclusive
of minor items of property) is charged to utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

Financial Instruments

The Company's financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal
fair value at December 31 were as follows:

                                         Long-Term Debt
                                    --------------------------
                                      Carrying           Fair
Year                                    Amount          Value
                                    --------------------------
                                             (in millions)
1997                                      $158           $161
1996                                       155            161
- --------------------------------------------------------------

     The fair values for long-term debt were based on either closing market
prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the costs of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory
when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

Work Force Reduction Program

In 1997, the Company incurred a $1.9 million one-time charge to other operation
expense for costs related to the implementation of a work force reduction
program.

2.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees. Effective January 1, 1998, Savannah
Electric and Power Company's pension plan was merged with the Southern Company
plan. Benefits are based on the greater of amounts resulting from two different
formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of service and a
flat-dollar benefit. The Company uses the "projected unit credit" actuarial


                                       II-241

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report


method for funding purposes, subject to limitations under federal income tax
regulations. Amounts funded to the pension trust are primarily invested in
equity and fixed-income securities. FASB Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting
for Pensions, requires use of the "projected unit credit" actuarial method for
financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

The Company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. The Company funds trusts to the extent deductible
under federal income tax regulations and to the extent required by the GPSC and
the FERC. Amounts funded are primarily invested in equity and fixed--income
securities.

     FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." The cost of postretirement
benefits is reflected in rates on a current basis.

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The funded status of the plans and reconciliation to amounts reflected in the
Balance Sheets at December 31 are as follows:

                                                    Pension
                                        ---------------------------
                                               1997        1996
                                        ---------------------------
                                                 (in thousands)
Actuarial present value of
   benefit obligation:
      Vested benefits                       $40,240     $39,270
      Non-vested benefits                     3,350       2,939
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation               43,590      42,209
Additional amounts related to
   projected salary increases                 8,130       7,705
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation                 51,720      49,914
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                 51,630      42,430
   Unrecognized net loss                      1,275       7,147
   Unrecognized prior service cost            1,884       1,240
   Unrecognized net transition
     obligation                                 355         444
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid asset
   recognized in the Balance Sheets         $ 3,424     $ 1,347
================================================================

                                    Postretirement Benefits
                                    -------------------------
                                         1997           1996
                                   --------------------------
                                         (in thousands)
Actuarial present value of
  benefit obligation:
     Retirees and dependents          $12,509        $12,442
     Employees eligible to retire       1,923          1,614
     Other employees                    6,467          6,464
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation         20,899         20,520
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets            3,859          2,473
   Unrecognized net loss                3,737          4,835
   Unrecognized transition
     Obligation                         7,407          7,900
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liability recognized in
   the Balance Sheets                 $ 5,896        $ 5,312
=============================================================

     The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations for the
pension plan were:

                                       1997     1996     1995
                                      --------------------------
  Discount                             7.50%    7.25%    7.25%
  Annual salary increase               5.00     4.75     4.75
  Long-term return on plan assets      8.50     8.75     8.75
  ---------------------------------------------------------------

     An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 8.8
percent for 1997, decreasing gradually to 5.5 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation at December 31, 1997, by $1.4 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net postretirement cost by $0.1
million.

     Components of the plans' net costs are shown below:

                                               Pension
                                     -----------------------------
                                          1997    1996     1995
                                     -----------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Benefits earned during the year         $1,393   $1,352    $1,188
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation                    3,556    3,389     3,395
Actual (return) loss
   on plan assets                       (7,762)  (4,852)   (5,791)
Net amortization and deferral            4,735    2,439     4,125
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension cost                        $1,922   $2,328    $2,917
==================================================================


                                       II-242

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

     Of the above net pension costs, $1.7 million in 1997, $2.0 million in 1996
and $2.4 million in 1995 were recorded in operating expenses, and the remainder
was recorded in construction and other accounts.

                                        Postretirement Benefits
                                     -----------------------------
                                        1997      1996      1995
                                     -----------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Benefits earned during the year       $  319    $  360    $  504
Interest cost on accumulated
  benefit obligation                   1,499     1,422     1,638
Amortization of transition                        
  Obligation                             494       494       723
Actual (return) loss
  on plan assets                        (346)     (145)      (34)
Net amortization and deferral            260       187        93
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement costs              $2,226    $2,318    $2,924
==================================================================

     Of the above net postretirement costs, $1.9 million in 1997, $2.0 million
in 1996 and $2.4 million in 1995 were recorded in operating expenses. The
remainder for each year was charged to construction and other accounts.

     The Company has a supplemental retirement plan for certain executive
employees. The plan is unfunded and payable from the general funds of the
Company. The Company has purchased life insurance on participating executives,
and plans to use these policies to satisfy this obligation. Benefit costs
associated with this plan were $0.4 million for 1997, 1996 and 1995.

3.  REGULATORY MATTERS

Rates to retail customers served by the Company are regulated by the GPSC. As
part of the Company's most recent rate settlement in 1992, it was informally
agreed that the Company's earned rate of return on common equity should be 12.95
percent. The Company is currently undergoing an earnings review by the GPSC, and
to date, the GPSC has made no determination.

4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program, currently estimated
to total $22 million in 1998, $23 million in 1999 and $21 million in 2000. The
construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and actual
construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous
factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; revised load
growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations; increasing cost of
labor, equipment and materials; and changes in cost of capital. The Company does
not have any traditional baseload generating plants under construction. However,
construction related to transmission and distribution facilities and the
upgrading and extension of the useful lives of generating plants will continue.

5.  FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS

General

To the extent possible, the Company's construction program is expected to be
financed from internal sources and from the issuance of additional long-term
debt, preferred stock and capital contributions from Southern Company.

     The amounts of long-term debt and preferred stock that can be issued in the
future will be contingent on market conditions, the maintenance of adequate
earnings levels, regulatory authorizations and other factors.

Bank Credit Arrangements

At the end of 1997, unused credit arrangements with five banks totaled $20.5
million and expire at various times during 1998.

     The Company's revolving credit arrangements of $20 million, of which $20
million remained unused as of December 31, 1997, expire December 31, 2000. These
agreements allow short-term borrowings to be converted into term loans, payable
in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the first installment due at the end of
the first calendar quarter after the applicable termination date or at an
earlier date at the Company's option.

     In connection with these credit arrangements, the Company agrees to pay
commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments.

Assets Subject to Lien

As amended and supplemented, the Company's Indenture of Mortgage, which secures
the first mortgage bonds issued by the Company, constitutes a direct first lien
on substantially all of the Company's fixed property and franchises. A second
lien for $10 million of bank debt is secured by a portion of the Plant Kraft


                                       II-243



NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report
 

property and a second lien for a $14 million bank note is secured by a portion
of the Plant McIntosh property.

Operating Leases

The Company has rental agreements with various terms and expiration dates.
Rental expenses totaled $1.2 million for 1997, $1.6 million for 1996, and $1.3
million for 1995. The Company entered into a 22.5 year lease agreement effective
December 1, 1995 for 100 new aluminum rail cars at an annual cost of
approximately $0.5 million. The rail cars are used to transport coal to one of
the Company's generating plants.

     At December 31, 1997, estimated future minimum lease payments for
non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:

                                               Amounts
                                         --------------------
                                           (in thousands)
1998                                         $1,077
1999                                            483
2000                                            483
2001                                            483
2002 and thereafter                           7,935
- -------------------------------------------------------------

6.  INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1997, tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $17
million and $21 million, respectively. The assets are attributable to tax
benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to
capitalized AFUDC. The liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes previously
recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to unamortized
investment tax credits.

     Details of income tax provisions are as follows:

                                       1997      1996       1995
                                 --------------------------------
                                         (in thousands)
Total provision for income taxes
Federal --
   Currently payable                 $9,743   $ 7,084    $10,427
   Deferred  -- current year          4,522     8,216      5,290
             -- reversal of
                prior years          (1,381)   (1,989)    (1,661)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                     12,884     13,311    14,056
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
State --
   Currently payable                  1,603        575     1,941
   Deferred  -- current year            569      1,216       695
             -- reversal of
                prior years             130         39        35
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                      2,302      1,830     2,671
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                15,186     15,141    16,727
Less income taxes credited
   to other income                   (1,233)   (1,034)      (651)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes
   charged to operations            $16,419   $16,175    $17,378
=================================================================

     The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

                                                1997       1996
                                            --------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:                       (in thousands)
   Accelerated depreciation                  $72,663    $67,104
   Property basis differences                  8,034      9,550
   Other                                       5,850      5,703
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                         86,547     82,357
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Pension and other benefits                  5,338      5,183
   Other                                       2,957      2,186
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          8,295      7,369
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                  78,252     74,988
Portions included in current assets, net       2,445      1,666
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income taxes
   in the Balance Sheets                     $80,697    $76,654
================================================================

     Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $0.7 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995. At December 31, 1997, all
investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been
utilized.


                                       II-244

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

     A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                      1997      1996     1995
                                    -----------------------------
   Federal statutory tax rate           35%       35%      35%
   State income tax, net of
      federal income tax benefit         4         3        4
   Other                                (2)       (1)       -
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Effective income tax rate            37%       37%      39%
   ==============================================================

     Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return. Under a
joint consolidated income tax agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred
tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the
parent company are allocated to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable
income to total consolidated taxable income.

7.  CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

The Company has outstanding 1,400,000 shares of 6.64% Series Preferred Stock
which has redemption provisions of $26.66 per share plus accrued dividends if
redeemed on or prior to November 1, 1998, and redemption provisions of $25 per
share plus accrued dividends thereafter. Cumulative preferred stock dividends
are preferential to the payment of dividends on common stock.

8.  LONG-TERM DEBT

The Company's Indenture related to its First Mortgage Bonds is unlimited as to
the authorized amount of bonds which may be issued, provided that required
property additions, earnings and other provisions of such Indenture are met.

     In April 1997, the Company issued $14 million in variable rate pollution
control obligations (bank note) maturing in 2037. The Company redeemed all of
its remaining outstanding 6 3/4% Pollution Control Bonds due 2022.

     The sinking fund requirements of first mortgage bonds were satisfied by
certifying property additions in 1997 and by cash redemption in 1996. The 1998
requirement will be satisfied by cash redemption. Sinking fund requirements
and/or maturities through 2002 applicable to long-term debt are as follows:
$21.8 million in 1998; $0.6 million in 1999; $0.6 million in 2000; $10.5 million
in 2001; and $0.4 million in 2002.

     Details of pollution control obligations and other long-term debt at
December 31 are as follows:

                                             1997        1996
                                         ------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Collateralized obligations incurred
in connection with the sale by public
authorities of tax-exempt pollution
control revenue bonds --
   Variable rate (4.20% at 1/1/98)
     due 2016                              $ 4,085     $ 4,085
   6 3/4% due 2022                               -      13,870
   Variable rate bank note
     (5.05% at 1/1/98) due 2037             13,870           -
Capital lease obligations --
   Coal unloading facility
     Variable rate (6.25% at 1/1/98)         5,867       6,667
   Transportation fleet                        788         421
Notes Payable --
   6.88% due 2001                           10,000      10,000
   Variable rate (6.06% at 1/1/98)
     due 1998                               15,000      15,000
   Variable rate (6.06% at 1/1/98)
     due 1998                                5,000       5,000
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                      $54,610     $55,043
================================================================

     Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded as utility plant in
service, and the related obligation is classified as other long-term debt.
Leases are capitalized at the net present value of the future lease payments.
However, for ratemaking purposes, these obligations are treated as operating
leases, and as such, lease payments are charged to expense as incurred.

     In March 1996, the Company entered into a fifteen year variable rate
capital lease agreement with the Savannah Economic Development Authority for a
coal ship docking and unloading facility at Plant Kraft.

                                       II-245


NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1997 Annual Report

9.  LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the sinking fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year at December 31 is as follows:

                                                  1997         1996
                                             -------------------------
                                                   (in thousands)
Bond sinking fund requirement                  $ 1,100        $1,100
Less:
   Portion to be satisfied by
     certifying property additions                   -         1,100
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash sinking fund requirement                    1,100             -
Other long-term debt maturities (Note 8)        20,664           637
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          $21,764        $  637
====================================================================

     The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirements amount to 1
percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the Indenture
prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to collateralize
pollution control and other obligations. The requirements may be satisfied by
depositing cash or reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal
to 1 2/3 times the requirements.

10.  COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND 
     RESTRICTIONS

The Company's Charter and Indenture contain certain limitations on the payment
of cash dividends on preferred and common stocks. At December 31, 1997,
approximately $68 million of retained earnings was restricted against the
payment of cash dividends on common stock under the terms of the Indenture.

11.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATIO
     (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1997 and 1996 are as follows (in
thousands):

                                               Net Income After
                     Operating    Operating      Dividends on
Quarter Ended         Revenues      Income     Preferred Stock
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

March 1997              $42,945      $ 6,117         $ 2,545
June 1997                52,516        8,626           5,136
September 1997           79,900       17,531          14,276
December 1997            50,916        4,950           1,890

March 1996              $50,575      $ 6,562         $ 2,740
June 1996                61,906        9,786           5,859
September 1996           73,359       16,542          12,815
December 1996            48,234        5,994           2,526
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

     The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions and a
seasonal rate structure, among other factors.


                                       II-246





                                       II-247





                                       II-248A




                                       II-248B






                                       II-248C








                                       II-249





                                      II-250A






                                       II-250B






                                       II-250C









                                     II-251





                                     II-252A





                                     II-252B






                                    II-252C





                                     II-253








                                    II-254A





                                    II-254B





                                    II-254C





                                     II-255





                                    II-256A





                                    II-256B







                                     II-256C






                                     II-257








                                    II-258A





                                    II-258B





                                    II-258C











                                            II-259






                                    PART III

Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 for SOUTHERN are  incorporated  by reference to ELECTION
OF DIRECTORS  in  SOUTHERN's  definitive  Proxy  Statement  relating to the 1998
annual meeting of stockholders.  The ages of directors and executive officers in
Item 10 set forth below are as of December 31, 1997.

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
             OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS

         ALABAMA

Identification of directors of ALABAMA.

Elmer B. Harris (1)
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 58
Served as Director since 3-1-89

Bill M. Guthrie
Executive Vice President
Age 64
Served as Director since 12-16-88

Whit Armstrong (2)
Age 50
Served as Director since 9-24-82

A. W. Dahlberg (2)
Age 57
Served as Director since 4-22-94

Peter V. Gregerson, Sr. (2)
Age 69
Served as Director since 10-22-93

Carl E. Jones, Jr. (2)
Age 57
Served as Director since 4-22-88

Patricia M. King (2)
Age 52
Served as Director since 7-25-97

James K. Lowder  (2)
Age 48
Served as Director since 7-25-97


Wallace D. Malone, Jr. (2)
Age 61
Served as Director since 6-22-90

William V. Muse (2)
Age 58
Served as Director since 2-26-93

John T. Porter (2)
Age 66
Served as Director since 10-22-93

Robert D. Powers (2)
Age 47
Served as Director since 1-24-92

Andreas Renschler (2)
Age 39
Served as Director since 1-23-98

C. Dowd Ritter (2)
Age 50
Served as Director since 7-25-97

John W. Rouse (2)
Age 60
Served as Director since 4-22-88

William J. Rushton, III (2)
Age 68
Served as Director since 9-18-70

James H. Sanford (2)
Age 53
Served as Director since 8-1-83

John C. Webb, IV (2)
Age 55
Served as Director since 4-22-77

(1)   Previously served as Director of ALABAMA from 1980 to 1985.
(2)   No position other than Director.

    Each of the above is currently a director of ALABAMA, serving a term 
running from the last annual meeting of ALABAMA's
stockholder (April 25, 1997) for one year until the next annual meeting or 
until a successor is elected and qualified, except for
Ms. King, Mr. Lowder, Mr. Renschler and Mr. Ritter whose elections were 
effective on the date indicated.

                                     III-1


    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person  pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as a director or nominee,  other than any  arrangements or  understandings  with
directors or officers of ALABAMA acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of executive officers of ALABAMA.

Elmer B. Harris (1)
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 58
Served as Executive Officer since 3-1-89

Banks H. Farris
Executive Vice President
Age 62
Served as Executive Officer since 12-3-91

Michael D. Garrett
Executive Vice President - External Affairs
Age 48
Served as Executive Officer since 3-1-98

William B. Hutchins, III
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer
Age 54
Served as Executive Officer since 12-3-91

Charles D. McCrary (2)
Executive Vice President
Age 46
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-91

(1)   Previously served as executive officer of ALABAMA from 1979 to 1985.
(2)   Resigned effective March 1, 1998, upon being
      elected Executive Vice President of SOUTHERN's
      Fossil/Hydro Group.

    Each of the above is currently an  executive  officer of ALABAMA,  serving a
term running from the last annual meeting of the directors  (April 25, 1997) for
one year until the next  annual  meeting or until his  successor  is elected and
qualified,  except for Mr.  Garrett  whose  election  was  effective on the date
indicated.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person  pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer,  other than any arrangements or  understandings  with officers of
ALABAMA acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

Elmer B. Harris - Elected in 1989; Chief Executive Officer.  Director of 
SOUTHERN and AmSouth Bancorporation.

Bill M. Guthrie - Elected in 1988;  also served  since 1991 as Chief  Production
Officer of the SOUTHERN system and from 1991 to 1994 as Executive Vice President
and Chief Production Officer of SCS. Elected Senior Executive Vice President and
Chief Production Officer of SCS effective 1994. Also serves as Vice President of
SOUTHERN,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI  and  SAVANNAH  and  Executive  Vice  President of
GEORGIA.  Responsible  primarily for providing  overall  management of materials
management,  fuel services,  operating and planning services,  fossil, hydro and
bulk power operations of the Southern electric system.

     Whit  Armstrong - President,  Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer of The
Citizens Bank, Enterprise, Alabama. Also, President and Chairman of the Board of
Enterprise Capital Corporation, Inc. Director of Enstar Group, Inc.

     A. W.  Dahlberg  -  Chairman,  President  and Chief  Executive  Officer  of
SOUTHERN since 1995. He previously  served as President of SOUTHERN from 1994 to
1995 and  President  and Chief  Executive  Officer of GEORGIA  from 1988 through
1993. Director of SOUTHERN,  GEORGIA, Equifax, Inc., Protective Life Corporation
and SunTrust Banks, Inc.

Peter V.  Gregerson,  Sr. - Chairman  Emeritus of Gregerson's  Foods,  Inc.
(retail groceries), Gadsden, Alabama.

Carl E. Jones, Jr. - President and Chief Executive Officer of Regions 
Financial Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama.  He previously
served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Regions Financial 
Corporation.

                                     III-2



Patricia M. King - President and Chief Executive Officer of King Motor Co., 
Inc., King's Highway, Inc. and King Imports, Inc., Anniston, Alabama.

James K. Lowder - President and Chief Executive  Officer of The Colonial 
Company (real estate development and sales), Montgomery, Alabama.

Wallace D. Malone, Jr. - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SouthTrust 
Corporation, bank holding company, Birmingham,
Alabama.  Director of American Cast Iron Pipe Company.

William V. Muse - President of Auburn University. Director of SouthTrust Bank 
and American Cast Iron Pipe Company.

John T. Porter  - Pastor of Sixth Avenue Baptist Church, Birmingham, Alabama.  
Director of Citizens Federal Savings Bank.

Robert D. Powers - President and Director, The Eufaula Agency, Inc. (real 
estate and insurance), Eufaula, Alabama.

Andreas Renschler - President and Chief Executive Officer of Mercedes-Benz U.S.
International, Inc., Tuscaloosa County, Alabama.

C. Dowd Ritter - Chairman, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director,
AmSouth Bancorporation and AmSouth Bank, Birmingham,
Alabama.

John W. Rouse - President of The Rouse Group, LLC, (technology consulting), 
Birmingham, Alabama and President Emeritus of Southern
Research Institute.  Director of Protective Life Corporation.

William J.  Rushton,  III - Chairman  Emeritus  of the  Board,  Protective  Life
Corporation  (insurance  holding  company),  Birmingham,  Alabama.  Director  of
SOUTHERN.


James H. Sanford - Chairman, HOME Place Farms Inc. (diversified farmers and 
ginners), Prattville, Alabama.  Chairman of the Board,
Sylvest Farms of Georgia, Inc., College Park, Georgia.  Chairman of the Board,
Sylvest Poultry Inc., Montgomery, Alabama.

John C. Webb, IV - President, Webb Lumber Company, Inc. (wholesale lumber and 
wood products sales), Demopolis, Alabama.  Director, J. F. Suttle, Co.

Banks H.  Farris - Elected in 1991;  responsible  primarily  for  providing  the
overall management of human resources, information resources, power delivery and
marketing   departments,   customer  service  centers  and  the  six  geographic
divisions. He previously served as Senior Vice President from 1991 to 1994.

Michael  D.  Garrett -  Elected  in 1998;  responsible  for  external  relations
department,  public relations and corporate  services.  He previously  served as
Senior Vice President - External Affairs from February 1994 to March 1998.

William  B.  Hutchins,  III - Elected in 1991;  responsible  for  financial  and
accounting operations, corporate planning and treasury operations. He previously
served as Senior Vice  President and Chief  Financial  Officer from 1991 to 1994
and as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1994 to 1998.

Charles D. McCrary - Elected in 1991;  responsible  for the  external  relations
department,  public relations and corporate  services.  He previously  served as
Senior Vice President from 1991 to 1994.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

                                     III-3



            GEORGIA

Identification of directors of GEORGIA.

H. Allen Franklin
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 53
Served as Director since 1-1-94

Warren Y. Jobe
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
Age 57
Served as Director since 8-1-82

Daniel P. Amos (1)
Age 46
Served as Director since 5-21-97

Juanita P. Baranco (1)
Age 48
Served as Director since 5-21-97

A. W. Dahlberg (1)
Age 57
Served as Director since 6-1-88

William A. Fickling, Jr. (1)
Age 65
Served as Director since 4-18-73

L. G. Hardman III (1)
Age 58
Served as Director since 6-25-79

James R. Lientz, Jr. (1)
Age 54
Served as Director since 7-21-93

G. Joseph Prendergast (1)
Age 52
Served as Director since 1-20-93

Herman J. Russell (1)
Age 67
Served as Director since 5-18-88


Gloria M. Shatto (1)
Age 66
Served as Director since 2-20-80

William Jerry Vereen (1)
Age 57
Served as Director since 5-18-88

Carl Ware (1) (2)
Age 54
Served as Director since 2-15-95

Thomas R. Williams (1)
Age 69
Served as Director since 3-17-82

(1)    No position other than Director.
(2)    Previously served as Director of GEORGIA
       from 1980 to 1991.

    Each of the above is currently a director of GEORGIA, serving a term running
from the last annual  meeting of  GEORGIA's  stockholder  (May 21, 1997) for one
year  until  the  next  annual  meeting  or until a  successor  is  elected  and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed  above and any other  person  pursuant  to which  he/she  was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings
with directors or officers of GEORGIA acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of executive officers of GEORGIA.

H. Allen Franklin
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-94

Warren Y. Jobe (1)
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Director
Age 57
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-82


                                     III-4


William C. Archer, III
Executive Vice President - External Affairs
Age 49
Served as Executive Officer since 4-6-95

Gene R. Hodges
Executive Vice President - Customer Operations
Age 59
Served as Executive Officer since 11-19-86

David M. Ratcliffe
Executive Vice President and Treasurer
Age 49
Served as Executive Officer since 3-1-98

William P. Bowers
Senior Vice President - Marketing
Age 41
Served as Executive Officer since 9-22-95

Wayne T. Dahlke
Senior Vice President - Power Delivery
Age 56
Served as Executive Officer since 4-19-89

James K. Davis
Senior Vice President - Corporate Relations
Age 57
Served as Executive Officer since 10-1-93

Robert H. Haubein
Senior Vice President - Fossil/Hydro Power
Age 57
Served as Executive Officer since 2-19-92

Fred D. Williams
Senior Vice President - Resource Policy & Planning
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 11-18-92

(1)  Elected Senior Vice President of SOUTHERN in February  1998;  however,  Mr.
     Jobe will maintain his present position as Executive Vice President,  Chief
     Financial Officer and Director of GEORGIA.

    Each of the above is currently an  executive  officer of GEORGIA,  serving a
term running from the last annual  meeting of the  directors  (May 21, 1997) for
one year until the next  annual  meeting or until his  successor  is elected and
qualified,  except for Mr.  Ratcliffe  whose  election was effective on the date
indicated.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person  pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer,  other than any arrangements or  understandings  with officers of
GEORGIA acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

H. Allen Franklin - President and Chief Executive Officer since 1994.  He 
previously served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of SCS from 1988 through 1993.  Director of SOUTHERN and SouthTrust 
Corporation.

Warren Y. Jobe - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 1982
and  Treasurer  from 1992 to 1998.  Responsible  for  financial  and  accounting
operations and planning, internal auditing, procurement, corporate secretary and
treasury operations.

Daniel P. Amos - President and Chief  Executive  Officer,  American  Family Life
Assurance Company (AFLAC), Columbus,  Georgia. Director, AFLAC Incorporated (and
subsidiaries), CIT Group and Greystone Capital Partners, I.L.P.

Juanita P. Baranco - Business owner of Baranco Automotive Group.  Director of 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and John H. Harland
Company, Decatur, Georgia.

A. W. Dahlberg - Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of SOUTHERN 
since 1995.  He previously served as President of
SOUTHERN from 1994 to 1995 and President and Chief Executive Officer of GEORGIA
from 1988 through 1993.  Director of SOUTHERN,
ALABAMA, Equifax, Inc., Protective Life Corporation and SunTrust Banks, Inc.

William A. Fickling, Jr. - Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer of 
Beech Street Corporation (provider of managed care
services) and President from 1995 to 1996.  He previously served as Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Charter
Medical Corporation (provider of psychiatric care).

                                     III-5


L. G. Hardman III - Chairman of the Board of The First National Bank of 
Commerce, Georgia and Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of First Commerce Bancorp, Inc.  Chairman of the Board, 
President and Treasurer of Harmony Grove Mills, Inc.
(real estate investments).  Director of SOUTHERN.

James R. Lientz, Jr. - President of NationsBank of Georgia since 1993.  He 
previously served as President and Chief Executive
Officer of former Citizens & Southern Bank of South Carolina (now NationsBank) 
from 1990 to 1993.  Director of Cerulean Companies,
Inc. and Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Georgia.

G. Joseph Prendergast - Senior Executive Vice President, Wachovia Corporation. 
Heads the banking division comprising the
companies consumer and corporate banking activities and Wachovia Bank, N.A. 
Chairman, Wachovia Bank of Georgia, Wachovia Bank of
South Carolina and Wachovia Bank of North Carolina since 1994.  Director, 
Willamette Industries, Portland, Oregon.

Herman J. Russell - Chairman of the Board,
H. J. Russell & Company (construction), Atlanta, Georgia.  Chairman of the 
Board, Citizens Trust Bank, Atlanta, Georgia.  Director
of Wachovia Corporation and First Union Real Estate and Mortgage Investments.

Gloria M. Shatto - President, Berry College, Mount Berry, Georgia.  Director of
SOUTHERN, Becton Dickinson & Company and Texas Instruments, Inc.

William Jerry Vereen - President, Treasurer and Chief Executive Officer of 
Riverside Manufacturing Company (manufacture and sale
of uniforms), Moultrie, Georgia.  Director of Gerber Scientific, Inc., Textile 
Clothing  Technology Corporation, Cerulean
Companies, Inc. and Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Georgia.

Carl Ware - President, Africa Group, The Coca-Cola Company since 1991.

Thomas R. Williams - President of The Wales Group, Inc. (investments), Atlanta,
Georgia.  Director of ConAgra, Inc., National Life
Insurance Company of Vermont, AppleSouth, Inc., American Software, Inc. and The
Fidelity Group of Funds.


William C.  Archer,  III - Executive  Vice  President - External  Affairs  since
September  1995.  Senior Vice  President - External  Affairs  from April 1995 to
September 1995. Vice President - Human Resources for SCS from 1992 to 1995.

Gene R. Hodges - Executive Vice President - Customer Operations, Power Delivery
and Safety.

David M.  Ratcliffe - Executive  Vice  President - Finance and  Treasurer  since
3-1-98.   Responsible  for   accounting,   corporate   secretary,   finance  and
procurement. He previously served as Senior Vice President - External Affairs of
SOUTHERN from 1995 to 1998. President and Chief Executive Officer of MISSISSIPPI
from 1991 to 1995.

William P. Bowers - Senior Vice President - Marketing since 1995. Vice President
- - Retail Sales and Service from 1992 to 1995. Director of Georgia MedCorp, Inc.,
Southern Regional Medical Center and Georgia MedCorp Development Corporation.

Wayne T. Dahlke - Senior Vice President - Power Delivery since 1992.  Senior 
Vice President - Marketing from 1989 to 1992.

James K. Davis - Senior Vice President - Corporate Relations since 1993.  Vice 
President of Corporate Relations from 1988 to 1993.

Robert H.  Haubein - Senior  Vice  President  - Fossil/  Hydro Power since 1994.
Senior  Vice  President  -  Administrative  Services  from 1992 to 1994 and Vice
President - Northern Region from 1990 to 1992.

Fred D. Williams - Senior Vice  President - Resource  Policy and Planning  since
1997.  Senior  Vice  President - Wholesale  Power  Marketing  from 1995 to 1997.
Senior  Vice  President  - Bulk  Power  Markets  from  1992 to August  1995.  In
addition,  he was elected Senior Vice President - Wholesale  Power  Marketing of
SCS in 1995 and Senior Vice President of ALABAMA in February 1996.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.


                                     III-6




      GULF

Identification of directors of GULF.

Travis J. Bowden
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 59
Served as Director since 2-1-94

Paul J. DeNicola (1)
Age 49
Served as Director since 4-19-91

Fred C. Donovan (1)
Age 57
Served as Director since 1-18-91

W. Deck Hull, Jr. (1)
Age 65
Served as Director since 10-14-83

Joseph K. Tannehill (1)
Age 64
Served as Director since 7-19-85

Barbara H. Thames (1)
Age 57
Served as Director since 2-28-97

(1)    No position other than Director.

    Each of the above is  currently a director of GULF,  serving a term  running
from the last annual meeting of GULF's  stockholder (June 24, 1997) for one year
until the next annual meeting or until a successor is elected and qualified.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person  pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as a director or nominee,  other than any  arrangements or  understandings  with
directors  or  officers  of GULF  acting  solely  in their  capacities  as such.
Identification of executive officers of GULF.

Travis J. Bowden
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 59
Served as Executive Officer since 2-1-94

Francis M. Fisher, Jr.
Vice President - Power Delivery and Customer Operations
Age 49
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-89

John E. Hodges, Jr.
Vice President - Marketing and Employee/External Affairs
Age 54
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-89

Robert G. Moore
Vice President - Power Generation and Transmission
Age 48
Served as Executive Officer since 7-25-97

Arlan E. Scarbrough
Vice President - Finance
Age 61
Served as Executive Officer since 9-21-77

    Each of the above is currently an executive officer of GULF,  serving a term
running from the last annual  meeting of the  directors  (July 25, 1997) for one
year  until the next  annual  meeting  or until his  successor  is  elected  and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person  pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer,  other than any arrangements or  understandings  with officers of
GULF acting solely in their capacities as such.


                                     III-7



Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

Travis J. Bowden - Elected President  effective February 1994 and, effective May
1994, Chief Executive Officer.  He previously served as Executive Vice President
of ALABAMA from 1985 to 1994.

Paul J. DeNicola - President and Chief  Executive  Officer of SCS since 1994. He
previously  served as Executive  Vice  President of SCS from 1991 through  1993.
Director of SOUTHERN, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH.

Fred C. Donovan - President of Baskerville - Donovan, Inc., Pensacola,  Florida,
an architectural and engineering firm.

W. Deck Hull, Jr. - President and Director of Hull Oil Company - Panama City, 
Florida.  He previously served as Vice Chairman of
the SunTrust Bank, West Florida, Panama City, Florida.

Joseph K. Tannehill - President and Chief Executive Officer of Merrick 
International Industries, Lynn Haven, Florida.  Director of
Regions Bank of North Florida, Panama City, Florida.

Barbara H. Thames - Chief Executive Officer of Santa Rosa Medical Center, 
Milton, Florida.


Francis M. Fisher, Jr. - Elected Vice President - Employee and External 
Relations in 1989 and, effective August 1996, Vice
President - Power Delivery and Customer Operations.

John E. Hodges, Jr. - Elected Vice President - Customer Operations in 1989 and,
effective August 1996, Vice President - Marketing
and Employee/External Affairs.

Robert G. Moore - Elected Vice President - Power  Generation and Transmission of
GULF and Vice  President  of Fossil  Generation  of SCS in 1997.  He  previously
served as Plant Manager - Bowen at GEORGIA.

Arlan E. Scarbrough - Elected Vice President - Finance in 1980;  responsible for
all accounting and financial services of GULF.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

                                     III-8



       MISSISSIPPI

Identification of directors of MISSISSIPPI.

Dwight H. Evans
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 49
Served as Director since 3-27-95

Paul J. DeNicola (1)
Age 49
Served as Director since 5-1-89

Edwin E. Downer (1)
Age 66
Served as Director since 4-24-84

Robert S. Gaddis (1)
Age 66
Served as Director since 1-21-86

Walter H. Hurt, III (1)
Age 62
Served as Director since 4-6-82

Aubrey K. Lucas (1)
Age 63
Served as Director since 4-24-84

George A. Schloegel (1)
Age 57
Served as Director since 7-26-95

Philip J. Terrell (1)
Age 44
Served as Director since 2-22-95

N. Eugene Warr (1)
Age 62
Served as Director since 1-21-86

(1)    No position other than Director.

    Each of the above is  currently  a director of  MISSISSIPPI,  serving a term
running  from the last annual  meeting of  MISSISSIPPI's  stockholder  (April 1,
1997) for one year  until the next  annual  meeting  or until his  successor  is
elected and qualified.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed  above and any other  person  pursuant to which he or she was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings
with directors or officers of MISSISSIPPI  acting solely in their  capacities as
such.

Identification of executive officers of MISSISSIPPI.

Dwight H. Evans
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 49
Served as Executive Officer since 3-27-95

H. E. Blakeslee
Vice President - Customer Services and Marketing
Age 57
Served as Executive Officer since 1-25-84

Andrew J. Dearman, III
Vice President - Power Generation and Delivery
Age 44
Served as Executive Officer since 4-23-97

Don E. Mason
Vice President - External Affairs and Corporate Services
Age 56
Served as Executive Officer since 7-27-83

Michael W. Southern
Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer
Age 45
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-95

    Each of the above is currently an executive officer of MISSISSIPPI,  serving
a term running from the last annual  meeting of the  directors  (April 23, 1997)
for one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person  pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer,  other than any arrangements or  understandings  with officers of
MISSISSIPPI acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.
                                     III-9



Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

Dwight  H.  Evans -  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  since  1995.  He
previously served as Executive Vice President of GEORGIA from 1989 to 1995.

Paul J. DeNicola - President and Chief Executive  Officer of SCS effective 1994.
Executive  Vice  President of SCS from 1991 through 1993.  Director of SOUTHERN,
SAVANNAH and GULF.

Edwin  E.  Downer -  Business  consultant  specializing  in  economic  analysis,
management controls and procedural studies.

Robert S. Gaddis - Chairman of the Advisory Board of Trustmark National Bank, 
Laurel, Mississippi.

Walter H. Hurt, III - President and Director of NPC Inc. (Investments).  Vicar 
of All Saints' Episcopal Church, Inverness,
Mississippi, and St. Thomas Church, Belzoni, Mississippi.

Aubrey K. Lucas -  President  Emeritus  and  Distinguished  Professor  of Higher
Education at the University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, Mississippi.

George A. Schloegel - President of Hancock Bank and Hancock Bank Securities 
Corporation.  Vice Chairman of Hancock Holding
Company.  Director of Hancock Bank - Mississippi and Hancock Bank - Louisiana.


Philip J. Terrell - Superintendent  of Pass Christian Public School District and
adjunct professor at William Carey College.

N. Eugene Warr - Retailer (Biloxi and Gulfport, Mississippi).  Director of 
Coast Community Bank, formerly SouthTrust Bank of
Mississippi, Biloxi, Mississippi.

H. E. Blakeslee - Elected Vice President in 1984.  Primarily responsible for 
rate design, revenue forecasting, marketing, district
operations, corporate compliance, distribution engineering, customer account
and customer call center.

Andrew J. Dearman, III - Elected Vice President in 1997.  Primarily  responsible
for generating plants,  environmental  quality, fuel services,  power generation
technical services, transmission,  system planning, bulk power contracts, system
operations and control,  system  protection  and real estate.  He served as Vice
President - Southern  Division of ALABAMA  from 1995 to May 1997,  and  Division
Manager - Customer Service of ALABAMA from 1989 to 1995.

Don E.  Mason -  Elected  Vice  President  in 1983.  Primarily  responsible  for
external affairs, corporate communications,  security, risk management, economic
development and general services, as well as the human resources function.

Michael W.  Southern - Elected Vice  President,  Secretary,  Treasurer and Chief
Financial   Officer   in   1995.    Primarily    responsible   for   accounting,
secretary/treasury,  corporate planning,  procurement and information resources.
He previously  served as Director of Corporate  Finance of SCS from 1994 to 1995
and Director of Financial Planning of SCS from 1990 to 1994.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

                                     III-10



         SAVANNAH

Identification of directors of SAVANNAH.

G. Edison Holland, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 45
Served as Director since 5-20-97

Archie H. Davis (1)
Age 56
Served as Director since 2-18-97

Paul J. DeNicola (1)
Age 49
Served as Director since 3-14-91

Walter D. Gnann (1)
Age 62
Served as Director since 5-17-83

Robert B. Miller, III (1)
Age 52
Served as Director since 5-17-83

Arnold M. Tenenbaum (1)
Age 61
Served as Director since 5-17-77

(1)    No Position other than Director.

    Each of the  above is  currently  a  director  of  SAVANNAH,  serving a term
running from the last annual  meeting of SAVANNAH's  stockholder  (May 20, 1997)
for one year until the next annual  meeting or until a successor  is elected and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed  above and any other  person  pursuant  to which  he/she  was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings
with  directors or officers of SAVANNAH  acting  solely in their  capacities  as
such.

Identification of executive officers of SAVANNAH.

G. Edison Holland, Jr.
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 45
Served as Executive Officer since 10-1-97


W. Miles Greer
Vice President - Marketing and Customer Services
Age 54
Served as Executive Officer since 11-20-85

Larry M. Porter
Vice President - Operations
Age 52
Served as Executive Officer since 7-1-91

Kirby R. Willis
Vice President, Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer
and Assistant Corporate Secretary
Age 46
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-94

    Each of the above is currently an executive  officer of SAVANNAH,  serving a
term running from the last annual  meeting of the directors  (July 15, 1997) for
one year until the next  annual  meeting or until his  successor  is elected and
qualified,  except for Mr.  Holland  whose  election  was  effective on the date
indicated.

    There are no arrangements or  understandings  between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person  pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer,  other than any arrangements or  understandings  with officers of
SAVANNAH acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

G. Edison Holland, Jr. - Elected President and Chief Executive Officer in 1997.
Vice President - Power Generation/Transmission and Corporate Counsel of Gulf 
Power Company from 1995 to 1997.  Served as a partner in the law firm of Beggs 
& Lane from 1979 to 1997.

Archie H. Davis - President and Chief Executive Officer of The Savannah Bancorp
and The Savannah Bank, N.A., Savannah, Georgia.  Member of the Board of 
Directors of Thomaston Mills, Thomaston, Georgia.


                                     III-11



Paul J.  DeNicola -  President  and Chief  Executive  Officer of SCS since 1994.
Executive  Vice  President of SCS from 1991 through 1993.  Director of SOUTHERN,
GULF and MISSISSIPPI.

Walter D. Gnann - President of Walt's TV, Appliance and Furniture Co., Inc., 
Springfield, Georgia.  Past Chairman of the
Development Authority of Effingham County, Georgia.

Robert B. Miller, III - President of American Building Systems, Inc.

Arnold M. Tenenbaum - President and Director of Chatham Steel Corporation.  
Director of First Union Bank of Georgia, First Union
Bank of Savannah, Cerulean Corporation and Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Georgia.

W. Miles Greer - Vice President - Marketing and Customer Services effective 
1994.  Formerly served as Vice President - Economic
Development and Corporate Services from 1989 through 1993.

Larry M.  Porter - Vice  President -  Operations  since  1991.  Responsible  for
managing  the areas of fuel  procurement,  power  production,  transmission  and
distribution, engineering and system operation.


Kirby R. Willis - Vice President,  Treasurer and Chief  Financial  Officer since
1994 and Assistant Corporate Secretary effective 1998. Responsible primarily for
all accounting,  financial,  information resources,  labor relations,  corporate
services,   environmental  and  safety  activities.   He  previously  served  as
Treasurer, Controller and Assistant Secretary from 1991 to 1993.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.

GEORGIA's Messrs. Jobe and Vereen each failed to file on a timely basis a single
report  disclosing  one  transaction  on Form 5 as required by Section 16 of the
Securities Act of 1934.

GULF's Ms.  Thames and Mr.  Moore each failed to file on a timely basis a single
report  disclosing  one  transaction  on Form 3 as required by Section 16 of the
Securities Act of 1934. Ms. Thames executed a Form 3 on the day of the reporting
event for mailing by GULF; however, GULF inadvertently  submitted the report two
days late.


                                     III-12






ITEM 11.        EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Summary   Compensation  Tables.  The  following  tables  set  forth  information
concerning  any Chief  Executive  Officer and the four most  highly  compensated
executive  officers whose total annual salary and bonus exceeded $100,000 during
1997 for each of the operating affiliates (ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF, MISSISSIPPI
and SAVANNAH).







See next page for footnotes.





                                     III-14




                                     III-15





                                     III-16





                                     III-17



                                     III-18









                                     III-20






                                     III-21




                                     III-22



                                     III-23





                                     III-24



                  DEFINED BENEFIT OR ACTUARIAL PLAN DISCLOSURE


Pension Plan Table. The following table sets forth the estimated combined annual
pension  benefits  under  the  Pension,   Supplemental   Defined  Benefit,   and
Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plans in effect  during  1997 for the named
executives at ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF and MISSISSIPPI and Messrs. Gignilliat and
Holland at SAVANNAH. Employee compensation covered by the Pension,  Supplemental
Benefit,  and  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement Plans for pension purposes is
limited to the average of the highest three of the final 10 years'  compensation
- -- base salary plus the excess of annual and  long-term  incentive  compensation
over 25 percent of base salary (reported under column titled "Salary",  "Bonus",
and "Long-Term  Incentive Payouts" in the Summary  Compensation  Tables on pages
III-13 through III-18).

         The amounts shown in the table were  calculated  according to the final
average pay formula and are based on a single life annuity without reduction for
joint and survivor  annuities  (although  married employees are required to have
their pension  benefits paid in one of various joint and survivor annuity forms,
unless the employee elects  otherwise with the spouse's  consent) or computation
of the Social  Security  offset  which would  apply in most  cases.  This offset
amounts to one-half of the estimated Social Security benefit (primary  insurance
amount) in excess of $3,900  per year  times the  number of years of  accredited
service,  divided by the total  possible  years of accredited  service to normal
retirement age.



         As of December 31, 1997, the applicable  compensation  levels and years
of accredited service are presented in the following tables:


ALABAMA
                                           Compensation          Accredited
            Name                              Level         Years of Service

            Elmer B. Harris                    $839,724                  39
            Banks H. Farris                     372,912                  38
            Charles D. McCrary                  324,528                  23
            William B. Hutchins, III            306,456                  31

                                     III-25


GEORGIA
                                             Compensation        Accredited
            Name                                 Level        Years of Service

            H. Allen Franklin                  $908,664               26
            Warren Y. Jobe1                     334,656               26
            Gene R. Hodges                      331,092               33
            Robert H. Haubein, Jr.              312,216               30
            William C. Archer                   258,780               26

GULF
                                             Compensation        Accredited
            Name                                 Level        Years of Service

            Travis J. Bowden2                  $471,636               31
            Arlan E. Scarbrough                 236,436               34
            John E. Hodges, Jr.                 242,940               31
            Francis M. Fisher, Jr.              218,364               26
            Robert G. Moore                     166,296               24

MISSISSIPPI
                                             Compensation        Accredited
            Name                                 Level        Years of Service

            Dwight H. Evans                    $360,732               26
            H. E. Blakeslee                     264,744               32
            Don E. Mason                        254,556               31
            Michael W. Southern                 205,272               22
            Andrew J. Dearman, III              162,552               22

SAVANNAH
                                           Compensation           Accredited
            Name                                 Level        Years of Service

            Arthur M. Gignilliat               $354,456               37
            G. Edison Holland, Jr.3             255,768               15
            Larry M. Porter                     139,788               20
            W. Miles Greer                      133,860               13
            Kirby R. Willis                     126,180               23

1 The number of  accredited  years of service  includes 8 years  credited to Mr.
Jobe pursuant to a supplemental  pension  agreement.  
2 The number of accredited years of  service  includes  10  years  credited  to
Mr.  Bowden  pursuant  to a supplemental  pension  agreement.  
3 The number of  accredited  years of service includes 10 years  credited to 
Mr. Holland  pursuant to a  supplemental  pension agreement.

                                     III-26


         SAVANNAH has in effect a qualified, trusteed, noncontributory,  defined
benefit  pension  plan  which  provides   pension  benefits  to  employees  upon
retirement at the normal  retirement age after designated  periods of accredited
service  and at a  specified  compensation  level.  The  plan  provides  pension
benefits under a formula which includes each participant's years of service with
the  Southern   system  and  average  annual   earnings   (excluding   incentive
compensation)  of the  highest  three of the final 10 years of service  with the
Southern system preceding retirement.  Plan benefits are reduced by a portion of
the benefits  participants  are entitled to receive under Social  Security.  The
plan provides for reduced early retirement  benefits at age 55 and a pension for
the surviving spouse equal to one-half of the deceased retiree's pension.

         SAVANNAH also has in effect a supplemental  executive  retirement  plan
for  certain  of its  executive  employees.  The  plan is  designed  to  provide
participants with a supplemental  retirement benefit, which, in conjunction with
social security and benefits under SAVANNAH's qualified pension plan, will equal
70 percent of the highest three of the final 10 years' average  annual  earnings
(excluding incentive compensation).

         The following  table sets forth the estimated  combined  annual pension
benefits under SAVANNAH's pension and supplemental executive retirement plans in
effect  during 1997 which are payable to  SAVANNAH's  named  executives,  except
Messrs.  Gignilliat and Holland who  participate in the plans  described on page
III-25, upon retirement at the normal retirement age after designated periods of
accredited service and at a specified compensation level.
 

                                     III-27



Compensation of Directors.

         Standard  Arrangements.  The following table presents compensation paid
to the directors,  during 1997 for service as a member of the board of directors
and any board  committee(s),  except that employee directors received no fees or
compensation  for  service  as a member of the board of  directors  or any board
committee.  All or a portion of these fees payable in cash may be deferred under
the Deferred  Compensation  Plan until  membership on the board is terminated or
may be payable in SOUTHERN common stock at the election of the director.


         Effective  January 1, 1997,  the Outside  Directors  Pension  Plan (the
"Plan")  was  terminated  and  benefits  payable  under  the Plan  were  frozen.
Non-employee  directors  serving as of  January  1, 1997,  were given a one-time
election to receive a Plan benefit buy-out equal to the actuarial  present value
of future Plan benefits or receive  benefits  under the terms of the Plan at the
annual  retainer  rate in effect on December 31, 1996.  Directors who elected to
receive the benefit  buy-out were required to defer receipt of that amount under
the  Deferred   Compensation  Plan  until  termination  from  board  membership.
Directors who elected to continue to participate under the terms of the Plan are
entitled to  benefits  upon  retirement  from the board on the  retirement  date
designated in the respective  companies' by-laws.  The annual benefit payable is
based upon length of service  and varies from 75 percent of the annual  retainer
in effect on December 31,  1996,  if the  participant  has at least 60 months of
service  on the board of one or more  system  companies,  to 100  percent if the
participant has at least 120 months of such service.  Payments will continue for
the greater of the lifetime of the participant or 10 years.

         Other  Arrangements.   No  director  received  other  compensation  for
services as a director  during the year ending  December 31, 1997 in addition to
or in lieu of that specified by the standard arrangements specified above.

                                     III-28



Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment and Change in Control
Arrangements.

         None.

Report on Repricing of Options.

         None.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation.

         None.



                                     III-29



ITEM 12.        SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Security ownership of certain beneficial owners.  SOUTHERN is the beneficial 
owner of 100% of the outstanding common stock of registrants: ALABAMA, GEORGIA, 
GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH.


Security ownership of management. The following table shows the number of shares
of SOUTHERN common stock and operating  subsidiary  preferred stock owned by the
directors,  nominees and executive officers as of December 31, 1997. It is based
on information furnished by the directors,  nominees and executive officers. The
shares  owned by all  directors,  nominees  and  executive  officers  as a group
constitute less than one percent of the total number of shares of the respective
classes outstanding on December 31, 1997.




                                     III-31







                                     III-33






                                     III-35



Item 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                                     ALABAMA

Transactions with management and others.

     Mr. Whit Armstrong is President,  Chairman and Chief  Executive  Officer of
The Citizens Bank, Enterprise,  Alabama; Mr. Carl E. Jones, Jr. is President and
Chief Executive Officer of Regions Financial Corporation,  Birmingham,  Alabama;
Mr.  Wallace D. Malone is Chairman  and Chief  Executive  Officer of  SouthTrust
Corporation,  Birmingham,  Alabama.  Mr.  Ritter is Chairman,  President,  Chief
Executive  Officer and  Director  of AmSouth  Bancorporation  and AmSouth  Bank,
Birmingham,  Alabama.  During  1997,  these banks  furnished a number of regular
banking services in the ordinary course of business to ALABAMA.  ALABAMA intends
to maintain normal banking relations with all the aforesaid banks in the future.

Certain business relationships.
           None.

Indebtedness of management.
           None.

Transactions with promoters.
           None.

                                     GEORGIA

Transactions with management and others.

     Mr. L. G. Hardman III is Chairman of the Board of The First  National  Bank
of Commerce,  Georgia;  Mr. James R. Lientz,  Jr. is President of NationsBank of
Georgia,  Atlanta,  Georgia;  Mr. G. Joseph  Prendergast is Chairman of Wachovia
Bank of Georgia,  N.A., Atlanta,  Georgia; and Mr. Herman J. Russell is Chairman
of the Board of Citizens Trust Bank, Atlanta,  Georgia. During 1997, these banks
furnished  a number  of  regular  banking  services  in the  ordinary  course of
business to GEORGIA.  GEORGIA intends to maintain normal banking  relations with
all the aforesaid banks in the future.

     In 1997,  GEORGIA  leased a building from Riverside  Manufacturing  Co. for
approximately  $80,511.  Also,  Riverside  Manufacturing  sold to  GEORGIA  fire
retardant  uniforms  for  $104,687.  Mr.  William J.  Vereen is Chief  Executive
Officer, President, Treasurer and Director of Riverside Manufacturing Co.

Certain business relationships.
           None.

Indebtedness of management.
           None.

Transactions with promoters.
           None.
                                      GULF

Transactions with management and others.

     Mr. W. Deck Hull,  Jr. was Vice  Chairman of SunTrust  Bank,  West Florida,
Panama City,  Florida  from 1993 to 1997.  During  1997,  this bank  furnished a
number of regular  banking  services in the ordinary course of business to GULF.
GULF intends to maintain normal banking relations with the aforesaid bank in the
future.

     In 1997,  GULF paid to Merrick  Industries,  Inc.  $303,782 for replacement
parts for  existing  equipment  and for the purchase  and  installation  of coal
feeders for Plant Smith. Mr. Tannehill is President and Chief Executive  Officer
of Merrick Industries, Inc.

Certain business relationships.
           None.

Indebtedness of management.
           None.

Transactions with promoters.
           None.

                                   MISSISSIPPI

Transactions with management and others.

     Mr.  Robert S.  Gaddis  is  Chairman  of the  Advisory  Board of  Trustmark
National  Bank,  Laurel,  Mississippi;  Mr. George A.  Schloegel is President of
Hancock Bank, Gulfport, Mississippi. During 1997, these banks furnished a number
of regular  banking  services in the ordinary course of business to MISSISSIPPI.
MISSISSIPPI  intends to maintain  normal  banking  relations  with the aforesaid
banks in the future.


                                     III-36




Certain business relationships.
          None.

Indebtedness of management.
          None.

Transactions with promoters.
          None.

                                    SAVANNAH

Transactions with management and others.
         None

Certain business relationships.
           None.

Indebtedness of management.
           None.

Transactions with promoters.
           None.




                                     III-37

                                     PART IV

Item 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The  following  documents  are  filed as a part of this  report on this Form
10-K:

     (1) Financial Statements:

         Reports of Independent Public  Accountants on the financial  statements
         for  SOUTHERN  and  Subsidiary  Companies,   ALABAMA,   GEORGIA,  GULF,
         MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH are listed under Item 8 herein.

         The  financial  statements  filed as a part of this report for SOUTHERN
         and Subsidiary  Companies,  ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI  and
         SAVANNAH are listed under Item 8 herein.

     (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

         Reports of Independent  Public Accountants as to Schedules for SOUTHERN
         and Subsidiary  Companies,  ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI  and
         SAVANNAH are included herein on pages IV-12 through IV-17.

         Financial  Statement  Schedules for SOUTHERN and Subsidiary  Companies,
         ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI  and  SAVANNAH are listed in the
         Index to the Financial Statement Schedules at page S-1.

     (3) Exhibits:

         Exhibits for SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH
are listed in the Exhibit Index at page E-1.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of 1997 were as follows:

     ALABAMA filed a Current Report on Form 8-K:

              Date of event: December 4, 1997
              Items reported: Items 5 and 7


                                      IV-1


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.  The  signature of the
undersigned  company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having  reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     THE SOUTHERN COMPANY

     By:   A. W. Dahlberg, Chairman, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the  capacities  and on the dates  indicated.  The  signature  of each of the
undersigned  shall be deemed to relate only to matters  having  reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     A. W. Dahlberg
     Chairman of the Board, President and
     Chief Executive Officer
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     W. L. Westbrook
     Financial Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
     Treasurer
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

                           Directors:
      John C. Adams               Elmer B. Harris
      A. D. Correll               William J. Rushton, III
      Paul J. DeNicola            Gloria M. Shatto
      Jack Edwards                Gerald J. St. Pe'
      H. Allen Franklin           Herbert Stockham
      Bruce S. Gordon
      L. G. Hardman III

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.  The  signature of the
undersigned  company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having  reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

     By:   Elmer B. Harris, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the  capacities  and on the dates  indicated.  The  signature  of each of the
undersigned  shall be deemed to relate only to matters  having  reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     Elmer B. Harris
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     William B. Hutchins, III
     Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
     (Principal Financial Officer)

     Art P. Beattie
     Vice President, Secretary and Comptroller
     (Principal Accounting Officer)

                          Directors:
      Whit Armstrong                   John T. Porter
      Peter V. Gregerson, Sr.          Robert D. Powers
      Bill M. Guthrie                  Andreas Renschler
      Carl E. Jones, Jr.               C. Dowd Ritter
      Patricia M. King                 John W. Rouse
      James K. Lowder                  James H. Sanford
      Wallace D. Malone, Jr.           John Cox Webb, IV

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

                                      IV-2



Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.  The  signature of the
undersigned  company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having  reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

     By:   H. Allen Franklin, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the  capacities  and on the dates  indicated.  The  signature  of each of the
undersigned  shall be deemed to relate only to matters  having  reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     H. Allen Franklin
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     Warren Y. Jobe
     Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Director
     (Principal Financial Officer)

     Cliff S. Thrasher
     Vice President, Comptroller and Chief Accounting Officer
     (Principal Accounting Officer)

                           Directors:
       Daniel P. Amos             G. Joseph Prendergast
       Juanita P. Baranco         Herman J. Russell
       A. W. Dahlberg             Gloria M. Shatto
       William A. Fickling, Jr.   William Jerry Vereen
       L. G. Hardman III          Carl Ware
       James R. Lientz, Jr.       Thomas R. Williams

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.  The  signature of the
undersigned  company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having  reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     GULF POWER COMPANY

     By:   Travis J. Bowden, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the  capacities  and on the dates  indicated.  The  signature  of each of the
undersigned  shall be deemed to relate only to matters  having  reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     Travis J. Bowden
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     Arlan E. Scarbrough
     Vice President - Finance
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

                         Directors:
       Paul J. DeNicola         Joseph K. Tannehill
       Fred C. Donovan          Barbara H. Thames
       W. Deck Hull, Jr.

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

                                      IV-3



Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.  The  signature of the
undersigned  company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having  reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

     By:   Dwight H. Evans, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the  capacities  and on the dates  indicated.  The  signature  of each of the
undersigned  shall be deemed to relate only to matters  having  reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     Dwight H. Evans
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     Michael W. Southern
     Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and
     Chief Financial Officer
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

                          Directors:
        Paul J. DeNicola        Aubrey K. Lucas
        Edwin E. Downer         George A. Schloegel
        Robert S. Gaddis        Philip J. Terrell
        Walter H. Hurt, III     Gene Warr

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.  The  signature of the
undersigned  company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having  reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

     By:   G. Edison Holland, Jr., President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the  capacities  and on the dates  indicated.  The  signature  of each of the
undersigned  shall be deemed to relate only to matters  having  reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

      G. Edison Holland, Jr.
      President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
      (Principal Executive Officer)

      Kirby R. Willis
      Vice President, Treasurer and
      Chief Financial Officer
      (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

                         Directors:
       Archie H. Davis        Robert B. Miller, III
       Paul J. DeNicola       Arnold M. Tenenbaum
       Walter D. Gnann


     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 30, 1998


                                      IV-4



                                      IV-5


                                                                  Exhibit 23(a)

                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants,  we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports  dated  February  11,  1998 on the  financial  statements  of The
Southern  Company  and its  subsidiaries  and the  related  financial  statement
schedule,  included in this Form 10-K,  into The Southern  Company's  previously
filed Registration  Statement File Nos. 2-78617,  33-3546,  33-30171,  33-51433,
33-54415, 33-57951, 33-58371, 33-60427, 333-09077, 333-44127 and 333-44261.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
March 27, 1998


                                      IV-6





                                                                  Exhibit 23(b)



                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants,  we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated  February 11, 1998 on the  financial  statements of Alabama
Power Company and the related  financial  statement  schedule,  included in this
Form 10-K, into Alabama Power Company's previously filed Registration  Statement
File Nos. 33-49653, 33-61845 and 333-40629.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Birmingham, Alabama
March 27, 1998

                                      IV-7





                                                                  Exhibit 23(c)


                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP



                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants,  we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated  February 11, 1998 on the  financial  statements of Georgia
Power Company and the related  financial  statement  schedule,  included in this
Form 10-K, into Georgia Power Company's previously filed Registration  Statement
File Nos. 33-60345 and 333-43895.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
March 27, 1998

                                      IV-8

                                                                  Exhibit 23(d)



                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants,  we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 11, 1998 on the financial statements of Gulf Power
Company  and the related  financial  statement  schedule,  included in this Form
10-K, into Gulf Power Company's  previously  filed  Registration  Statement File
Nos. 33-50165 and 333-42033.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
March 27, 1998

                                      IV-9




                                                              Exhibit 23(e)

                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





     As independent public  accountants,  we hereby consent to the incorporation
of  our  reports  dated  February  11,  1998  on  the  financial  statements  of
Mississippi Power Company and the related financial statement schedule, included
in  this  Form  10-K,  into   Mississippi   Power  Company's   previously  filed
Registration Statement File Nos. 33-49649, 333-20469 and 333-45069.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
March 27, 1998

                                     IV-10





                                                                  Exhibit 23(f)

                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP




                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants,  we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated  February 11, 1998 on the financial  statements of Savannah
Electric  and  Power  Company  and the  related  financial  statement  schedule,
included  in  this  Form  10-K,  into  Savannah  Electric  and  Power  Company's
previously filed Registration Statement File Nos. 33-52509 and 333-46171.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
March 27, 1998




                                     IV-11



                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULE


To The Southern Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing  standards,
the  consolidated   financial   statements  of  The  Southern  Company  and  its
subsidiaries  included  in this Form 10-K,  and have  issued our report  thereon
dated  February  11,  1998.  Our audits  were made for the purpose of forming an
opinion on those  statements  taken as a whole.  The schedule  listed under Item
14(a)(2) herein as it relates to The Southern Company and its subsidiaries (page
S-2) is the responsibility of The Southern Company's management and is presented
for purposes of complying with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission's  rules
and is not part of the basic consolidated  financial  statements.  This schedule
has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic
consolidated  financial  statements  and, in our opinion,  fairly  states in all
material  respects  the  financial  data  required  to be set forth  therein  in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 11, 1998

                                     IV-12



                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULE


To Alabama Power Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing  standards,
the financial  statements  of Alabama Power Company  included in this Form 10-K,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 11, 1998. Our audits were made
for the purpose of forming an opinion on those  statements taken as a whole. The
schedule  listed  under Item  14(a)(2)  herein as it  relates  to Alabama  Power
Company (page S-3) is the  responsibility of Alabama Power Company's  management
and is  presented  for purposes of complying  with the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission's  rules  and is not part of the  basic  financial  statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing  procedures applied in the audits of
the  basic  financial  statements  and,  in our  opinion,  fairly  states in all
material  respects  the  financial  data  required  to be set forth  therein  in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Birmingham, Alabama
February 11, 1998


                                     IV-13



                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULE


To Georgia Power Company:

      We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing  standards,
the financial  statements  of Georgia Power Company  included in this Form 10-K,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 11, 1998. Our audits were made
for the purpose of forming an opinion on those  statements taken as a whole. The
schedule  listed  under Item  14(a)(2)  herein as it  relates  to Georgia  Power
Company (page S-4) is the  responsibility of Georgia Power Company's  management
and is  presented  for purposes of complying  with the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission's  rules  and is not part of the  basic  financial  statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing  procedures applied in the audits of
the  basic  financial  statements  and,  in our  opinion,  fairly  states in all
material  respects  the  financial  data  required  to be set forth  therein  in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 11, 1998

                                     IV-14




                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULE


To Gulf Power Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing  standards,
the financial  statements of Gulf Power Company  included in this Form 10-K, and
have issued our report thereon dated February 11, 1998. Our audits were made for
the  purpose of forming an  opinion on those  statements  taken as a whole.  The
schedule  listed under Item 14(a)(2)  herein as it relates to Gulf Power Company
(page S-5) is the  responsibility  of Gulf  Power  Company's  management  and is
presented  for  purposes  of  complying   with  the   Securities   and  Exchange
Commission's  rules  and is not part of the  basic  financial  statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing  procedures applied in the audits of
the  basic  financial  statements  and,  in our  opinion,  fairly  states in all
material  respects  the  financial  data  required  to be set forth  therein  in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 11, 1998

                                     IV-15




                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULE


To Mississippi Power Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing  standards,
the financial  statements  of  Mississippi  Power Company  included in this Form
10-K,  and have issued our report  thereon dated  February 11, 1998.  Our audits
were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those  statements  taken as a
whole.  The  schedule  listed  under  Item  14(a)(2)  herein  as it  relates  to
Mississippi Power Company (page S-6) is the  responsibility of Mississippi Power
Company's  management  and is  presented  for  purposes  of  complying  with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission's  rules  and is  not  part  of the  basic
financial  statements.   This  schedule  has  been  subjected  to  the  auditing
procedures  applied in the audits of the basic financial  statements and, in our
opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a
whole.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 11, 1998

                                     IV-16



                              ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULE


To Savannah Electric and Power Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing  standards,
the financial statements of Savannah Electric and Power Company included in this
Form 10-K,  and have issued our report  thereon  dated  February 11,  1998.  Our
audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken
as a whole.  The  schedule  listed under Item  14(a)(2)  herein as it relates to
Savannah Electric and Power Company (page S-7) is the responsibility of Savannah
Electric  and Power  Company's  management  and is  presented  for  purposes  of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of
the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures  applied in the audits of the basic financial  statements and, in our
opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a
whole.




/s/  Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 11, 1998


                                     IV-17



                                      S-1



                                      S-2




                                   S-3




                                      S-4


                                      S-5



                                      S-6




                                      S-7




                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    The following exhibits indicated by an asterisk preceding the exhibit number
are filed herewith. The balance of the exhibits have heretofore been filed with
the SEC, respectively, as the exhibits and in the file numbers indicated and are
incorporated herein by reference. Reference is made to a duplicate list of
exhibits being filed as a part of this Form 10-K, which list, prepared in
accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K of the SEC, immediately precedes the
exhibits being physically filed with this Form 10-K.

(1)      Underwriting Agreements

         GEORGIA


         (c)    - Distribution Agreement dated November 29, 1995 between
                  GEORGIA and Lehman Brothers Inc.; Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
                  Securities Corporation; J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.; Salomon
                  Brothers Inc and Smith Barney Inc. relating to $300,000,000
                  First Mortgage Bonds Secured Medium-Term Notes. (Designated in
                  GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, as
                  Exhibit 1(c).)


(3)      Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws

         SOUTHERN

         (a) 1  - Composite Certificate of Incorporation of SOUTHERN,
                  reflecting all amendments thereto through January 5, 1994.
                  (Designated in Registration No. 33-3546 as Exhibit 4(a), in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-7341, as Exhibit A
                  and in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8181, as
                  Exhibit A.)

         (a)  2 - By-laws of SOUTHERN as amended effective October 21, 1991,
                  and as presently in effect. (Designated in Form U-1, File No.
                  70-8181, as Exhibit A-2.)


         ALABAMA

         (b)  1 - Charter of ALABAMA and amendments thereto through October
                  14, 1994. (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-59634 as Exhibit
                  2(b), 2-60209 as Exhibit 2(c), 2-60484 as Exhibit 2(b),
                  2-70838 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 2-85987 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-25539
                  as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-43917 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in Form 8-K
                  dated February 5, 1992, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 4(b)-3, in
                  Form 8-K dated July 8, 1992, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit
                  4(b)-3, in Form 8-K dated October 27, 1993, File No. 1-3164,
                  as Exhibits 4(a) and 4(b), in Form 8-K dated November 16,
                  1993, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 4(a) and in Certificate of
                  Notification, File No. 70-8191, as Exhibit A.)

       * (b)  2 - Amendment to the Charter of ALABAMA dated December 15, 1997.

         (b)  3 - By-laws of ALABAMA as amended effective July 23, 1993, and
                  as presently in effect. (Designated in Form U-1, File No.
                  70-8191, as Exhibit A-2.)


                                      E-1


         GEORGIA

         (c)  1 - Charter of GEORGIA and amendments thereto through October
                  25, 1993. (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-63392 as Exhibit
                  2(a)-2, 2-78913 as Exhibits 4(a)-(2) and 4(a)-(3), 2-93039 as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-96810 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-141 as Exhibit
                  4(a)-(2), 33-1359 as Exhibit 4(a)(2), 33-5405 as Exhibit
                  4(b)(2), 33-14367 as Exhibits 4(b)-(2) and 4(b)-(3), 33-22504
                  as Exhibits 4(b)-(2), 4(b)-(3) and 4(b)-(4), in GEORGIA's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, File No. 1-6468, as
                  Exhibits 4(a)(2) and 4(a)(3), in Registration No. 33-48895 as
                  Exhibits 4(b)-(2) and 4(b)-(3), in Form 8-K dated December 10,
                  1992, File No. 1-6468 as Exhibit 4(b), in Form 8-K dated June
                  17, 1993, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(b) and in Form 8-K
                  dated October 20, 1993, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(b).)

       * (c)  2 - Amendment to the Charter of GEORGIA dated January 26,
                  1998.

         (c)  3 - By-laws of GEORGIA as amended effective July 18, 1990, and
                  as presently in effect. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                  3.)


         GULF

         (d)  1 - Restated Articles of Incorporation of GULF and amendments
                  thereto through November 8, 1993. (Designated in Registration
                  No. 33-43739 as Exhibit 4(b)-1, in Form 8-K dated January 15,
                  1992, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 1(b), in Form 8-K dated
                  August 18, 1992, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4(b)-2, in Form
                  8-K dated September 22, 1993, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4
                  and in Form 8-K dated November 3, 1993, File No. 0-2429, as
                  Exhibit 4.)

       * (d) 2  - Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of
                  GULF dated January 28, 1998.

         (d) 3  - By-laws of GULF as amended effective July 26, 1996, and as
                  presently in effect. (Designated in Form U-1, File No.
                  70-8949, as Exhibit A-2(c).)


         MISSISSIPPI

         (e) 1  - Articles of incorporation of MISSISSIPPI, articles of
                  merger of Mississippi Power Company (a Maine corporation) into
                  MISSISSIPPI and articles of amendment to the articles of
                  incorporation of MISSISSIPPI through August 19, 1993.
                  (Designated in Registration No. 2-71540 as Exhibit 4(a)-1, in
                  Form U5S for 1987, File No. 30-222-2, as Exhibit B-10, in
                  Registration No. 33-49320 as Exhibit 4(b)-(1), in Form 8-K
                  dated August 5, 1992, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibits 4(b)-2 and
                  4(b)-3, in Form 8-K dated August 4, 1993, File No. 0-6849, as
                  Exhibit 4(b)-3 and in Form 8-K dated August 18, 1993, File No.
                  0-6849, as Exhibit 4(b)-3.)

                                      E-2


       * (e) 2  - Article of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation
                  of MISSISSIPPI dated December 31, 1997.

         (e) 3  - By-laws of MISSISSIPPI as amended effective April 2, 1996,
                  and as presently in effect. (Designated in Form U5S for 1995,
                  File No. 30-222-2, as Exhibit B-10.)


         SAVANNAH

         (f) 1  - Charter of SAVANNAH and amendments thereto through
                  November 10, 1993. (Designated in Registration Nos. 33-25183
                  as Exhibit 4(b)-(1), 33-45757 as Exhibit 4(b)-(2) and in Form
                  8-K dated November 9, 1993, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4(b).)

         (f) 2  - By-laws of SAVANNAH as amended effective February 16,
                  1994, and as presently in effect. (Designated in SAVANNAH's
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, as Exhibit
                  3(f)2.)


(4)      Instruments Describing Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures

         SOUTHERN

         (a) 1  - Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of February 1, 1997,
                  between SOUTHERN, Southern Company Capital Funding, Inc. and
                  Bankers Trust Company, as Trustee, and indentures supplemental
                  thereto dated as of February 4, 1997. (Designated in
                  Registration Nos. 333-28349 as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 and
                  333-28355 as Exhibit 4.2.)

       * (a) 2  - Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of June 1, 1997,
                  between SOUTHERN, Southern Company Capital Funding, Inc. and
                  Bankers Trust Company, as Trustee, and indenture supplemental
                  thereto dated as of June 6, 1997.

         (a) 3  - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Southern Company
                  Capital Trust I dated as of February 1, 1997. (Designated in
                  Registration No. 333-28349 as Exhibit 4.6)

         (a) 4  - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Southern Company
                  Capital Trust II dated as of February 1, 1997. (Designated in
                  Registration No. 333-28355 as Exhibit 4.6)

       * (a) 5  - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Southern
                  Company Capital Trust III dated as of June 1, 1997.

         (a) 6  - Capital Securities Guarantee Agreement relating to
                  Southern Company Capital Trust I dated as of February 1, 1997.
                  (Designated in Registration No. 333-28349 as Exhibit 4.10)

                                      E-3


         (a) 7  - Capital Securities Guarantee Agreement relating to
                  Southern Company Capital Trust II dated as of February 1,
                  1997. (Designated in Registration No. 333-28355 as Exhibit
                  4.10)

       * (a) 8  - Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement relating to
                  Southern Company Capital Trust III dated as of June 1, 1997.


         ALABAMA

         (b) 1  - Indenture dated as of January 1, 1942, between ALABAMA and
                  The Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly Chemical Bank), as Trustee,
                  and indentures supplemental thereto through that dated as of
                  December 1, 1994. (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-59843 as
                  Exhibit 2(a)-2, 2-60484 as Exhibits 2(a)-3 and 2(a)-4, 2-60716
                  as Exhibit 2(c), 2-67574 as Exhibit 2(c), 2-68687 as Exhibit
                  2(c), 2-69599 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 2-71364 as Exhibit 4(a)-2,
                  2-73727 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-5079 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-17083
                  as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-22090 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in ALABAMA's
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No.
                  1-3164, as Exhibit 4(c), in Registration Nos. 33-43917 as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-45492 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-48885 as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-48917 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in Form 8-K dated
                  January 20, 1993, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 4(a)-3, in Form
                  8-K dated February 17, 1993, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit
                  4(a)-3, in Form 8-K dated March 10, 1993, File No. 1-3164, as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-3, in Certificate of Notification, File No.
                  70-8069, as Exhibits A and B, in Form 8-K dated June 24, 1993,
                  File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 4, in Certificate of Notification,
                  File No. 70-8069, as Exhibit A, in Form 8-K dated November 16,
                  1993, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 4(b), in Certificate of
                  Notification, File No. 70-8069, as Exhibits A and B, in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8069, as Exhibit A,
                  in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8069, as Exhibit A
                  and in Form 8-K dated November 30, 1994, File No. 1-3164, as
                  Exhibit 4.)

         (b) 2  - Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of January 1, 1996,
                  between ALABAMA and The Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly
                  Chemical Bank), as Trustee, and indenture supplemental thereto
                  dated as of January 1, 1996. (Designated in Certificate of
                  Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibits E and F.)

         (b) 3  - Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of January 1, 1997,
                  between ALABAMA and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, and
                  indenture supplemental thereto dated as of January 1, 1997.
                  (Designated in Form 8-K dated January 9, 1997, File No.
                  1-3164, as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2.)

         (b) 4  - Senior Note Indenture dated as of December 1, 1997,
                  between ALABAMA and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, and
                  indentures supplemental thereto through that dated February
                  26, 1998. (Designated in Form 8-K dated December 4, 1997, File
                  No. 1-3164, as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 and in Form 8-K dated
                  February 20, 1998, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 4.2.)

         (b) 5  - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Alabama Power
                  Capital Trust I dated as of January 1, 1996. (Designated in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit D.)

                                      E-4


         (b) 6  - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Alabama Power
                  Capital Trust II dated as of January 1, 1997. (Designated in
                  Form 8-K dated January 9, 1997, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit
                  4.5.)

         (b) 7  - Guarantee Agreement relating to Alabama Power Capital
                  Trust I dated as of January 1, 1996. (Designated in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit G.)

         (b) 8  - Guarantee Agreement relating to Alabama Power Capital
                  Trust II dated as of January 1, 1997. (Designated in Form 8-K
                  dated January 9, 1997, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 4.8.)


         GEORGIA

         (c) 1  - Indenture dated as of March 1, 1941, between GEORGIA and
                  The Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly Chemical Bank), as Trustee,
                  and indentures supplemental thereto dated as of March 1, 1941,
                  March 3, 1941 (3 indentures), March 6, 1941 (139 indentures),
                  March 1, 1946 (88 indentures) and December 1, 1947, through
                  October 15, 1995. (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-4663 as
                  Exhibits B-3 and B-3(a), 2-7299 as Exhibit 7(a)-2, 2-61116 as
                  Exhibit 2(a)-3 and 2(a)-4, 2-62488 as Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-63393
                  as Exhibit 2(a)-4, 2-63705 as Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-68973 as
                  Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-70679 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-72324 as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-2, 2-73987 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-77941 as
                  Exhibits 4(a)-(2) and 4(a)-(3), 2-79336 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2),
                  2-81303 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-90105 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2),
                  33-5405 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-14367 as Exhibits 4(a)-(2) and
                  4(a)-(3), 33-22504 as Exhibits 4(a)-(2), 4(a)-(3) and
                  4(a)-(4), 33-32420 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-35683 as Exhibit
                  4(a)-(2), in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December
                  31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(a)(3), in Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1991, File No. 1-6468, as
                  Exhibit 4(a)(5), in Registration No. 33-48895 as Exhibit
                  4(a)-(2), in Form 8-K dated August 26, 1992, File No. 1-6468,
                  as Exhibit 4(a)-(3), in Form 8-K dated September 9, 1992, File
                  No. 1-6468, as Exhibits 4(a)-(3) and 4(a)-(4), in Form 8-K
                  dated September 23, 1992, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                  4(a)-(3), in Form 8-A dated October 12, 1992, as Exhibit 2(b),
                  in Form 8-K dated January 27, 1993, File No. 1-6468, as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-(3), in Registration No. 33-49661 as Exhibit
                  4(a)-(2), in Form 8-K dated July 26, 1993, File No. 1-6468, as
                  Exhibit 4, in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-7832,
                  as Exhibit M, in Certificate of Notification, File No.
                  70-7832, as Exhibit C, in Certificate of Notification, File
                  No. 70-7832, as Exhibits K and L, in Certificate of
                  Notification, File No. 70-8443, as Exhibit C, in Certificate
                  of Notification, File No. 70-8443, as Exhibit C, in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8443, as Exhibit E,
                  in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8443, as Exhibit
                  E, in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8443, as
                  Exhibit E, in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December
                  31, 1994, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibits 4(c)2 and 4(c)3, in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8443, as Exhibit C,
                  in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8443, as Exhibit
                  C, in Form 8-K dated May 17, 1995, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                  4 and in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1995, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibits 4(c)2, 4(c)3, 4(c)4, 4(c)5
                  and 4(c)6.)

                                      E-5


         (c) 2  - Indenture dated as of December 1, 1994, between GEORGIA
                  and Trust Company Bank, as Trustee and indentures supplemental
                  thereto through that dated as of December 15, 1994.
                  (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8461,
                  as Exhibits E and F.)

         (c) 3  - Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of August 1, 1996,
                  between GEORGIA and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, and
                  indentures supplemental thereto through January 1, 1997.
                  (Designated in Form 8-K dated August 21, 1996, File No.
                  1-6468, as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 and in Form 8-K dated January
                  9, 1997, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4.2.)

         (c) 4  - Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of June 1, 1997,
                  between GEORGIA and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, and
                  indenture supplemental thereto dated as of June 11, 1997.
                  (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8461,
                  as Exhibits D and E.)

         (c) 5  - Senior Note Indenture dated as of January 1, 1998, between
                  GEORGIA and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, and
                  indenture supplemental thereto dated as of January 27, 1998.
                  (Designated in Form 8-K dated January 21, 1998, File No.
                  1-6468, as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2.)

         (c) 6  - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Georgia Power
                  Capital Trust I dated as of August 1, 1996. (Designated in
                  Form 8-K dated August 21, 1996, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                  4.5.)

         (c)  7 - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Georgia Power
                  Capital Trust II dated as of January 1, 1997. (Designated in
                  Form 8-K dated January 9, 1997, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                  4.5.)

         (c) 8  - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Georgia Power
                  Capital Trust III dated as of June 1, 1997. (Designated in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit C.)

         (c) 9  - Guarantee Agreement relating to Georgia Power Capital
                  Trust I dated as of August 1, 1996. (Designated in Form 8-K
                  dated August 21, 1996, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4.8.)

         (c) 10 - Guarantee Agreement relating to Georgia Power Capital
                  Trust II dated as of January 1, 1997. (Designated in Form 8-K
                  dated January 9, 1997, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4.8.)

         (c) 11 - Guarantee Agreement relating to Georgia Power Capital
                  Trust III dated as of June 1, 1997. (Designated in Certificate
                  of Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit F.)


                                      E-6


         GULF

         (d) 1  - Indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, between GULF and
                  The Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank
                  (National Association)), as Trustee, and indentures
                  supplemental thereto through November 1, 1996. (Designated in
                  Registration Nos. 2-4833 as Exhibit B-3, 2-62319 as Exhibit
                  2(a)-3, 2-63765 as Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-66260 as Exhibit 2(a)-3,
                  33-2809 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-43739 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in
                  GULF's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, File
                  No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4(b), in Form 8-K dated August 18,
                  1992, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4(a)-3, in Registration No.
                  33-50165 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in Form 8-K dated July 12, 1993,
                  File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4, in Certificate of Notification,
                  File No. 70-8229, as Exhibit A, in Certificate of
                  Notification, File No. 70-8229, as Exhibits E and F, in Form
                  8-K dated January 17, 1996, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4, in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8229, as Exhibit A,
                  in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8229, as Exhibit A
                  and in Form 8-K dated November 6, 1996, File No. 0-2429, as
                  Exhibit 4.)

         (d) 2  - Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of January 1, 1997,
                  between GULF and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee, and
                  indentures supplemental thereto through that dated as of
                  January 1, 1998. (Designated in Form 8-K dated January 27,
                  1997, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, in Form 8-K
                  dated July 28, 1997, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.2 and in
                  Form 8-K dated January 13, 1998, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit
                  4.2.)

         (d) 3  - Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Gulf Power Capital
                  Trust I dated as of January 1, 1997. (Designated in Form 8-K
                  dated January 27, 1997, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.5.)

         (d) 4 -  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Gulf Power Capital
                  Trust II dated as of January 1, 1998. (Designated in Form 8-K
                  dated January 13, 1998, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.5.)

         (d) 5  - Guarantee Agreement relating to Gulf Power Capital Trust I
                  dated as of January 1, 1997. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
                  January 27, 1997, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.8.)

         (d) 6  - Guarantee Agreement relating to Gulf Power Capital Trust
                  II dated as of January 1, 1998. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
                  January 13, 1998, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.8.)


         MISSISSIPPI

         (e) 1  - Indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, between
                  MISSISSIPPI and Bankers Trust Company, as Successor Trustee,
                  and indentures supplemental thereto through December 1, 1995.
                  (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-4834 as Exhibit B-3,
                  2-62965 as Exhibit 2(b)-2, 2-66845 as Exhibit 2(b)-2, 2-71537
                  as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-5414 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-39833 as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-2, in MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended


                                      E-7


                  December 31, 1991, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(b), in Form
                  8-K dated August 5, 1992, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(a)-2,
                  in Second Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-7941, as
                  Exhibit I, in MISSISSIPPI's Form 8-K dated February 26, 1993,
                  File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in Certificate of
                  Notification, File No. 70-8127, as Exhibit A, in Form 8-K
                  dated June 22, 1993, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 1, in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8127, as Exhibit A,
                  in Form 8-K dated March 8, 1994, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit
                  4, in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8127, as
                  Exhibit C and in Form 8-K dated December 5, 1995, File No.
                  0-6849, as Exhibit 4.)

         (e) 2  - Subordinated Note Indenture dated as of February 1, 1997,
                  between MISSISSIPPI and Bankers Trust Company, as Trustee, and
                  indenture supplemental thereto dated as of February 1, 1997.
                  (Designated in Form 8-K dated February 20, 1997, File No.
                  0-6849, as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2.)

         (e) 3 -  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Mississippi Power
                  Capital Trust I dated as of February 1, 1997. (Designated in
                  Form 8-K dated February 20, 1997, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit
                  4.5.)

         (e) 4  - Guarantee Agreement relating to Mississippi Power Capital
                  Trust I dated as of February 1, 1997. (Designated in Form 8-K
                  dated February 20, 1997, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4.8.)


         SAVANNAH

         (f) 1  - Indenture dated as of March 1, 1945, between SAVANNAH and
                  The Bank of New York, New York, as Trustee, and indentures
                  supplemental thereto through May 1, 1996. (Designated in
                  Registration Nos. 33-25183 as Exhibit 4(a)-(1), 33-41496 as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-45757 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), in SAVANNAH's
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, File No.
                  1-5072, as Exhibit 4(b), in Form 8-K dated July 8, 1992, File
                  No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4(a)-3, in Registration No. 33-50587 as
                  Exhibit 4(a)-(2), in Form 8-K dated July 22, 1993, File No.
                  1-5072, as Exhibit 4, in Form 8-K dated May 18, 1995, File No.
                  1-5072, as Exhibit 4 and in Form 8-K dated May 23, 1996, File
                  No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4.)

         (f) 2  - Senior Note Indenture dated as of March 1, 1998 between
                  SAVANNAH and The Bank of New York, as Trustee and indenture
                  supplemental thereto dated as of March 1, 1998. (Designated in
                  Form 8-K dated March 9, 1998, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibits 4.1
                  and 4.2.)


 (10)    Material Contracts

         SOUTHERN

         (a)  1 - Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 6, 1985, between SCS and
                  ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN.
                  (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1984, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a) and in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)(3).)

                                      E-8


         (a) 2  - Service contract dated as of July 17, 1981, between SCS
                  and SEI. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1985, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
                  10(a)(2).)

         (a) 3  - Service contract dated as of March 3, 1988, between SCS
                  and SAVANNAH. (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10-p.)

         (a) 4  - Service contract dated as of January 15, 1991, between SCS
                  and Southern Nuclear. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1991, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
                  10(a)(4).)

         (a) 5  - Service Contract dated as of December 12, 1994, between
                  SCS and Mobile Energy Services Company, Inc. (Designated in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)58.)

         (a) 6  - Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, effective
                  January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit
                  10(b).)

         (a) 7  - Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959, Amendment No. 1
                  dated as of October 27, 1982 and Amendment No. 2 dated
                  November 4, 1993 and effective June 1, 1994, among SEGCO,
                  ALABAMA and GEORGIA. (Designated in Registration No. 2-59634
                  as Exhibit 5(c), in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1982, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(d)(2) and in
                  ALABAMA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, File
                  No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 10(b)18.)

         (a) 8  - Joint Committee Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976,
                  among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. (Designated in
                  Registration No. 2-61116 as Exhibit 5(d).)

         (a) 9  - Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Purchase and Ownership
                  Participation Agreement dated as of January 6, 1975, between
                  GEORGIA and OPC. (Designated in Form 8-K for January, 1975,
                  File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(1).)

         (a) 10 - Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as
                  of January 6, 1975, between GEORGIA and OPC. (Designated in
                  Form 8-K for January, 1975, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                  (b)(3).)

         (a) 11 - Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System
                  Agreement dated as of November 12, 1990, between GEORGIA and
                  OPC. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(g).)

         (a) 12 - Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation
                  Agreement dated as of March 26, 1976, between GEORGIA and OPC.
                  (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-5592,
                  as Exhibit A.)

                                      E-9


         (a) 13 - Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of March
                  26, 1976, between GEORGIA and OPC. (Designated in Certificate
                  of Notification, File No. 70-5592, as Exhibit B.)

         (a) 14 - Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Purchase and Ownership
                  Participation Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, between
                  GEORGIA, MEAG and Dalton. (Designated in Form 8-K dated as of
                  June 13, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(1).)

         (a) 15 - Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as
                  of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA, MEAG and Dalton.
                  (Designated in Form 8-K for February 1977, File No. 1-6468, as
                  Exhibit (b)(2).)

         (a) 16 - Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two Purchase
                  and Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of August 27,
                  1976 and Amendment No. 1 dated as of January 18, 1977, among
                  GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. (Designated in Form U-1, File
                  No. 70-5792, as Exhibit B-1 and in Form 8-K for January 1977,
                  File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (B)(3).)

         (a) 17 - Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two
                  Operating Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, among
                  GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. (Designated in Form U-1, File
                  No. 70-5792, as Exhibit B-2.)

         (a) 18 - Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two
                  Purchase, Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated
                  as of November 16, 1983, between GEORGIA and MEAG. (Designated
                  in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983,
                  File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(k)(4).)

         (a) 19 - Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation
                  Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA and
                  MEAG. (Designated in Form 8-K dated as of July 5, 1977, File
                  No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(2).)

         (a) 20 - Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of August
                  27, 1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG. (Designated in Form 8-K
                  dated as of July 5, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(4).)

       * (a) 21 - Nuclear Operating Agreement between Southern Nuclear
                  and GEORGIA dated as of July 1, 1993.

       * (a) 22 - Pseudo Scheduling and Services Agreement between
                  GEORGIA and MEAG dated as of April 8, 1997.

         (a) 23 - Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation
                  Agreement dated as of April 19, 1977, between GEORGIA and
                  Dalton. (Designated in Form 8-K dated as of June 13, 1977,
                  File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(3).)

         (a) 24 - Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of April
                  19, 1977, between GEORGIA and Dalton. (Designated in Form 8-K
                  dated as of June 13, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                  (b)(7).)

                                      E-10


         (a) 25 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Units Number One and Two Purchase
                  and Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of May 15,
                  1980, Amendment No. 1 dated as of December 30, 1985, Amendment
                  No. 2 dated as of July 1, 1986, Amendment No. 3 dated as of
                  August 1, 1988 and Amendment No. 4 dated as of December 31,
                  1990, among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. (Designated in Form
                  U-1, File No. 70-6481, as Exhibit B-3, in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(o)(2), in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1989, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(n)(2) and in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)54.)

         (a) 26 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Units Number One and Two
                  Operating Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980, Amendment No. 1
                  dated as of December 3, 1985 and Amendment No. 2 dated as of
                  December 31, 1990, among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton.
                  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6481, as Exhibit B-4, in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(o)(4) and in SOUTHERN's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(a)55.)

         (a) 27 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase, Sale and Option
                  Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980, between GEORGIA and MEAG.
                  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6481, as Exhibit B-1.)

         (a) 28 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase and Sale Agreement dated
                  as of May 16, 1980, between GEORGIA and Dalton. (Designated in
                  Form U-1, File No. 70-6481, as Exhibit B-2.)

         (a) 29 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Purchase and
                  Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984,
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 1, 1986 and Amendment No. 2
                  dated as of August 1, 1988, between GEORGIA and GULF.
                  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6573, as Exhibit B-4, in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, as
                  Exhibit 10(o)(2) and in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1989, as Exhibit 10(n)(2).)

         (a) 30 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Operating
                  Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984, between GEORGIA and GULF.
                  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6573, as Exhibit B-5.)

         (a) 31 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Amended and
                  Restated Purchase and Ownership Participation Agreement by and
                  among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA, dated as of December 31, 1990 and
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of June 15, 1994. (Designated in Form
                  U-1, File No. 70-7843, as Exhibit B-1 and in SOUTHERN's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(a)60.)

                                      E-11


         (a) 32 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Operating Agreement
                  by and among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA, dated as of December 31,
                  1990 and Amendment No. 1 dated as of June 15, 1994.
                  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7843, as Exhibit B-2 and
                  in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)61.)

         (a) 33 - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated
                  February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.
                  (Designated in MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1981, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(c)(2) and in
                  GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982, File
                  No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(r)(3).)

         (a) 34 - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May
                  19, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated August 30, 1984 and Amendment
                  No. 2 dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA,
                  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. (Designated in GEORGIA's
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982, File No.
                  1-6468, as Exhibit 10(s)(2), in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1984, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
                  10(r)(2) and in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(s)(2).)

         (a) 35 - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between
                  FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.
                  (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(d).)

         (a) 36 - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(e).)

         (a) 37 - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(f).)

         (a) 38 - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 1990,
                  between Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                  10(x).)

         (a) 39 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. (Designated in GULF's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1991, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 10(1).)


                                      E-12


         (a) 40 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. (Designated in GULF's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1991, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 10(m).)

         (a) 41 - Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project
                  Ownership Participation Agreement dated November 18, 1988,
                  between OPC and GEORGIA. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-6468, as
                  Exhibit 10(x).)

         (a) 42 - Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project
                  Operating Agreement dated November 18, 1988, between OPC and
                  GEORGIA. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1988, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(y).)

         (a) 43 - Purchase and Ownership Agreement for Joint Ownership
                  Interest in the James H. Miller, Jr. Steam Electric Generating
                  Plant Units One and Two dated November 18, 1988, between
                  ALABAMA and AEC. (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7609, as
                  Exhibit B-1.)

         (a) 44 - Operating Agreement for Joint Ownership Interest in the
                  James H. Miller, Jr. Steam Electric Generating Plant Units One
                  and Two dated November 18, 1988, between ALABAMA and AEC.
                  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7609, as Exhibit B-2.)

         (a) 45 - Transmission Facilities Agreement dated February 25,
                  1982, Amendment No. 1 dated May 12, 1982 and Amendment No. 2
                  dated December 6, 1983, between Gulf States and MISSISSIPPI.
                  (Designated in MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1981, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(f), in
                  MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1982,
                  File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(f)(2) and in MISSISSIPPI's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983, File No. 0-6849, as
                  Exhibit 10(f)(3).)

         (a) 46 - Form of commitment agreement, Amendment No. 1 and
                  Amendment No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA and
                  MISSISSIPPI revolving credits. (Designated in Form U-1, File
                  No. 70-7738, as Exhibit A-5 and in Form U-1, File No. 70-7937,
                  as A-5(b).)

         (a) 47 - Block Power Sale Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC dated
                  as of November 12, 1990. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as
                  Exhibit 10(cc).)

       * (a) 48 - Revised and Restated Coordination Services Agreement
                  between and among GEORGIA, OPC and Georgia Systems Operations
                  Corporation dated as of September 10, 1997.

         (a) 49 - Amended and Restated Nuclear Managing Board Agreement for
                  Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and
                  Dalton dated as of July 1, 1993. (Designated in SOUTHERN's
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, File No.
                  1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)49.)

                                      E-13


         (a) 50 - Integrated Transmission System Agreement, Power Sale and
                  Coordination Umbrella Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC dated
                  as of November 12, 1990. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as
                  Exhibit 10(ff).)

         (a) 51 - Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System
                  Agreement between GEORGIA and Dalton dated as of December 7,
                  1990. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(gg).)

         (a) 52 - Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System
                  Agreement between GEORGIA and MEAG dated as of December 7,
                  1990. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(hh).)

         (a) 53 - Long Term Transmission Service Agreement between Entergy
                  Power, Inc. and ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. (Designated in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)53.)

         (a) 54 - Plant Scherer Managing Board Agreement dated as of
                  December 31, 1990 among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG, Dalton, GULF, FP&L
                  and JEA. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)56.)

         (a) 55 - Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Purchase and Ownership
                  Participation Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as
                  of December 15, 1992. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
                  10(a)57.)

         (a) 56 - Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Operating Agreement
                  between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as of December 15, 1992.
                  (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1993, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)58.)

         (a) 57 - Power Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 1993
                  between GEORGIA and FPC. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K
                  for the year ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(a)59.)

         (a) 58 - Operating Agreement for the Joseph M. Farley Nuclear
                  Plant between ALABAMA and Southern Nuclear dated as of
                  December 23, 1991. (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7530,
                  as Exhibit B-7.)

       * (a) 59 - The Southern Company Productivity Improvement Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1997.

       * (a) 60 - The Southern Company Executive Productivity
                  Improvement Plan, effective January 1, 1997.

                                      E-14


         (a) 61 - The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective July 3, 1995 and all amendments thereto
                  through Amendment Number Six. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(a)63, in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1996, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)64 and in
                  Registration No. 333-44261 as Exhibit 4(e).)

         (a) 62 - The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and all
                  amendments thereto through Amendment Number Two. (Designated
                  in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)64 and in SOUTHERN's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(a)66.)

       * (a) 63 - Amendment Number Three to The Southern Company
                  Employee Stock Ownership Plan.

         (a) 64 - Pension Plan For Employees of ALABAMA, Amended and
                  Restated effective as of January 1, 1989 and all amendments
                  thereto through Amendment Number Three. (Designated in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)69 and in SOUTHERN's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(a)68.)

         (a) 65 - Pension Plan For Employees of GEORGIA, Amended and
                  Restated effective as of January 1, 1989 and all amendments
                  thereto through Amendment Number Three. (Designated in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)70 and in SOUTHERN's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(a)70.)

         (a) 66 - Pension Plan For Employees of SCS, Amended and Restated
                  effective as of January 1, 1989 and all amendments thereto
                  through Amendment Number Four. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-3526, as
                  Exhibit 10(a)71, in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1995, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)68 and in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)72.)

         (a) 67 - The Southern Company Performance Pay Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective January 1, 1996. (Designated in SOUTHERN's
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No.
                  1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)73.)

       * (a) 68 - Amendment Number One and Amendment Number Two to The
                  Southern Company Performance Pay Plan.

         (a) 69 - Supplemental Benefit Plan for ALABAMA. (Designated in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)71.)

         (a) 70 - Supplemental Benefit Plan for GEORGIA. (Designated in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)72.)

                                      E-15


         (a) 71 - Supplemental Benefit Plan for SCS and SEI, Amended and
                  Restated effective as of January 1, 1996. (Designated in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)76.)

         (a) 72 - The Deferred Compensation Plan for the Directors of The
                  Southern Company and First Amendment and Second Amendment
                  thereto. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year
                  ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)76
                  and in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                  1995, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)75.)

         (a) 73 - The Southern Company Outside Directors Pension Plan.
                  (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1994, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)77.)

         (a) 74 - The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan.
                  (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1995, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)77.)

         (a) 75 - The Southern Company Outside Directors Stock Plan and
                  First Amendment thereto. (Designated in Registration No.
                  33-54415 as Exhibit 4(c) and in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
                  10(a)79.)

         (a) 76 - Outside Directors Stock Plan for Subsidiaries of The
                  Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. (Designated in
                  SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
                  File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)80.)

       * (a) 77 - The Southern Company Performance Dividend Plan.

         (a) 78 - The Southern Company Pension Plan, effective as of
                  January 1, 1997. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
                  10(a)83.)

       * (a) 79 - Amendment Number One to The Southern Company Pension
                  Plan.

       * (a) 80 - The Southern Company Performance Stock Plan.

       * (a) 81 - The Southern Company Supplemental Executive
                  Retirement Plan.

       * (a) 82 - The Southern Company Performance Sharing Plan.


         ALABAMA

         (b) 1  - Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 6, 1985, between SCS and
                  ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)1 herein.

                                      E-16


         (b) 2  - Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, effective
                  January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

         (b) 3  - Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959, Amendment No. 1
                  dated as of October 27, 1982 and Amendment No. 2 dated
                  November 4, 1993 and effective June 1, 1994, among SEGCO,
                  ALABAMA and GEORGIA. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein.

         (b) 4  - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated
                  February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)33 herein.

         (b) 5  - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May
                  19, 1982, Amendment No. 1, dated August 30, 1984 and Amendment
                  No. 2, dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA,
                  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)34
                  herein.

         (b) 6  - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between
                  FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

         (b) 7  - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

         (b) 8  - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

         (b) 9  - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 1990, between
                  Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

         (b) 10 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

         (b) 11 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

         (b) 12 - Firm Power Purchase Contract between ALABAMA and AMEA.
                  (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-7212,
                  as Exhibit B.)

         (b) 13 - 1991 Firm Power Purchase Contract between ALABAMA and
                  AMEA. (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7873, as Exhibit
                  B-1.)

         (b) 14 - Purchase and Ownership Agreement for Joint Ownership
                  Interest in the James H. Miller, Jr. Steam Electric Generating
                  Plant Units One and Two dated November 18, 1988, between
                  ALABAMA and AEC. See Exhibit 10(a)43 herein.

                                      E-17


         (b) 15 - Operating Agreement for Joint Ownership Interest in the
                  James H. Miller, Jr. Steam Electric Generating Plant Units One
                  and Two dated November 18, 1988, between ALABAMA and AEC. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)44 herein.

         (b) 16 - Form of commitment agreement, Amendment No. 1 and
                  Amendment No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA and
                  MISSISSIPPI revolving credits. See Exhibit 10(a)46 herein.

         (b) 17 - Long Term Transmission Service Agreement between Entergy
                  Power, Inc. and ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit
                  10(a)53 herein.

         (b) 18 - Operating Agreement for the Joseph M. Farley Nuclear
                  Plant between ALABAMA and Southern Nuclear dated as of
                  December 23, 1991. See Exhibit 10(a)58 herein.

       * (b) 19 - The Southern Company Productivity Improvement Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)59 herein.

       * (b) 20 - The Southern Company Executive Productivity
                  Improvement Plan, effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)60 herein.

         (b) 21 - The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective July 3, 1995 and all amendments thereto
                  through Amendment Number Six. See Exhibit 10(a)61 herein.

         (b) 22 - The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and all
                  amendments thereto through Amendment Number Two. See Exhibit
                  10(a)62 herein.

       * (b) 23 - Amendment Number Three to The Southern Company
                  Employee Stock Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

         (b) 24 - Pension Plan For Employees of ALABAMA, Amended and
                  Restated effective as of January 1, 1989 and all amendments
                  thereto through Amendment Number Three. See Exhibit 10(a)64
                  herein.

         (b) 25 - The Southern Company Performance Pay Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)67
                  herein.

       * (b) 26 - Amendment Number One and Amendment Number Two to The
                  Southern Company Performance Pay Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)68
                  herein.

         (b) 27 - Supplemental Benefit Plan for ALABAMA. See Exhibit
                  10(a)69 herein.

         (b) 28 - The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)74 herein.

         (b) 29 - The Southern Company Outside Directors Pension Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

                                      E-18


         (b) 30 - Outside Directors Stock Plan for Subsidiaries of The
                  Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit
                  10(a)76 herein.

         (b) 31 - The Southern Company Pension Plan, effective as of
                  January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

       * (b) 32 - Amendment Number One to The Southern Company Pension
                  Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)79 herein.

       * (b) 33 - The Southern Company Performance Stock Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)80 herein.

       * (b) 34 - The Southern Company Supplemental Executive
                  Retirement Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)81 herein.

       * (b) 35 - The Southern Company Performance Dividend Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)77 herein.

       * (b) 36 - The Southern Company Performance Sharing Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)82 herein.


         GEORGIA

         (c) 1  - Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 6, 1985, between SCS and
                  ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)1 herein.

         (c) 2  - Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, effective
                  January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

         (c) 3  - Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959, Amendment No. 1
                  dated as of October 27, 1982 and Amendment No. 2 dated
                  November 4, 1993 and effective June 1, 1994, among SEGCO,
                  ALABAMA and GEORGIA. See Exhibit 10(a)7 herein.

         (c) 4  - Joint Committee Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976,
                  among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)8
                  herein.

         (c) 5  - Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Purchase and Ownership
                  Participation Agreement dated as of January 6, 1975, between
                  GEORGIA and OPC. See Exhibit 10(a)9 herein.

         (c) 6  - Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as
                  of January 6, 1975, between GEORGIA and OPC. See Exhibit
                  10(a)10 herein.

         (c) 7  - Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System
                  Agreement dated as of November 12, 1990, between GEORGIA and
                  OPC. See Exhibit 10(a)11 herein.

         (c) 8  - Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation
                  Agreement dated as of March 26, 1976, between GEORGIA and OPC.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)12 herein.

                                      E-19


         (c) 9  - Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of March
                  26, 1976, between GEORGIA and OPC. See Exhibit 10(a)13 herein.

         (c) 10 - Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Purchase and Ownership
                  Participation Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, between
                  GEORGIA, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)14 herein.

         (c) 11 - Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as
                  of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA, MEAG and Dalton. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)15 herein.

         (c) 12 - Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two Purchase
                  and Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of August 27,
                  1976 and Amendment No. 1 dated as of January 18, 1977, among
                  GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein.

         (c) 13 - Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two
                  Operating Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, among
                  GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein.

         (c) 14 - Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two
                  Purchase, Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated
                  as of November 16, 1983, between GEORGIA and MEAG. See Exhibit
                  10(a)18 herein.

         (c) 15 - Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation
                  Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA and
                  MEAG. See Exhibit 10(a)19 herein.

         (c) 16 - Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of August
                  27, 1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG. See Exhibit 10(a)20
                  herein.

       * (c) 17 - Nuclear Operating Agreement between Southern Nuclear
                  and GEORGIA dated as of July 1, 1993. See Exhibit 10(a)21
                  herein.

       * (c) 18 - Pseudo Scheduling and Services Agreement between
                  GEORGIA and MEAG dated as of April 8, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)22 herein.

         (c) 19 - Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation
                  Agreement dated as of April 19, 1977, between GEORGIA and
                  Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)23 herein.

         (c) 20 - Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of April
                  19, 1977, between GEORGIA and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)24
                  herein.

         (c) 21 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Units Number One and Two Purchase
                  and Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of May 15,
                  1980, Amendment No. 1 dated as of December 30, 1985, Amendment
                  No. 2 dated as of July 1, 1986, Amendment No. 3 dated as of
                  August 1, 1988 and Amendment No. 4 dated as of December 31,
                  1990, among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)25
                  herein.

         (c) 22 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Units Number One and Two
                  Operating Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980, Amendment No. 1


                                      E-20


                  dated as of December 3, 1985 and Amendment No. 2 dated as of
                  December 31, 1990, among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)26 herein.

         (c) 23 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase, Sale and Option
                  Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980, between GEORGIA and MEAG.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)27 herein.

         (c) 24 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase and Sale Agreement dated
                  as of May 16, 1980, between GEORGIA and Dalton. See Exhibit
                  10(a)28 herein.

         (c) 25 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Purchase and
                  Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984,
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 1, 1986 and Amendment No. 2
                  dated as of August 1, 1988, between GEORGIA and GULF. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)29 herein.

         (c) 26 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Operating
                  Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984, between GEORGIA and GULF.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)30 herein.

         (c) 27 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Amended and
                  Restated Purchase and Ownership Participation Agreement by and
                  among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA dated as of December 31, 1990 and
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of June 15, 1994. See Exhibit 10(a)31
                  herein.

         (c) 28 - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Operating Agreement
                  by and among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA dated as of December 31,
                  1990 and Amendment No. 1 dated as of June 15, 1994. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)32 herein.

         (c) 29 - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated
                  February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)33 herein.

         (c) 30 - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May
                  19, 1982, Amendment No. 1, dated August 30, 1984 and Amendment
                  No. 2 dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA,
                  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)34
                  herein.

         (c) 31 - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between
                  FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

         (c) 32 - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

         (c) 33 - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

         (c) 34 - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 1990,
                  between Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

                                      E-21


         (c) 35 - Power Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 1993
                  between GEORGIA and FPC. See Exhibit 10(a)57 herein.

         (c) 36 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

         (c) 37 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

         (c) 38 - Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project
                  Ownership Participation Agreement dated November 18, 1988,
                  between OPC and GEORGIA. See Exhibit 10(a)41 herein.

         (c) 39 - Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project
                  Operating Agreement dated November 18, 1988, between OPC and
                  GEORGIA. See Exhibit 10(a)42 herein.

         (c) 40 - Form of commitment agreement, Amendment No. 1 and
                  Amendment No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA and
                  MISSISSIPPI revolving credits. See Exhibit 10(a)46 herein.

         (c) 41 - Block Power Sale Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC dated
                  as of November 12, 1990. See Exhibit 10(a)47 herein.

       * (c) 42 - Revised and Restated Coordination Services Agreement
                  between and among GEORGIA, OPC and Georgia Systems Operations
                  Corporation dated as of September 10, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)48 herein.

         (c) 43 - Amended and Restated Nuclear Managing Board Agreement for
                  Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and
                  Dalton dated as of July 1, 1993. See Exhibit 10(a)49 herein.

         (c) 44 - Integrated Transmission System Agreement, Power Sale and
                  Coordination Umbrella Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC dated
                  as of November 12, 1990. See Exhibit 10(a)50 herein.

         (c) 45 - Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System
                  Agreement between GEORGIA and Dalton dated as of December 7,
                  1990. See Exhibit 10(a)51 herein.

         (c) 46 - Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System
                  Agreement between GEORGIA and MEAG dated as of December 7,
                  1990. See Exhibit 10(a)52 herein.

         (c) 47 - Plant Scherer Managing Board Agreement dated as of
                  December 31, 1990 among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG, Dalton, GULF, FP&L
                  and JEA. See Exhibit 10(a)54 herein.

                                      E-22


         (c) 48 - Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Purchase and Ownership
                  Participation Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as
                  of December 15, 1992. See Exhibit 10(a)55 herein.

         (c) 49 - Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Operating Agreement
                  between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as of December 15, 1992.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)56 herein.

         (c) 50 - Certificate of Limited Partnership of Georgia Power
                  Capital. (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File No.
                  70-8461, as Exhibit B.)

         (c) 51 - Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of
                  Georgia Power Capital, dated as of December 1, 1994.
                  (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8461,
                  as Exhibit C.)

         (c) 52 - Action of General Partner of Georgia Power Capital
                  creating the Series A Preferred Securities. (Designated in
                  Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit D.)

         (c) 53 - Guarantee Agreement of GEORGIA dated as of December 1,
                  1994, for the benefit of the holders from time to time of the
                  Series A Preferred Securities. (Designated in Certificate of
                  Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit G.)

       * (c) 54 - The Southern Company Productivity Improvement Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)59 herein.

       * (c) 55 - The Southern Company Executive Productivity
                  Improvement Plan, effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)60 herein.

         (c) 56 - The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective July 3, 1995 and all amendments thereto
                  through Amendment Number Six. See Exhibit 10(a)61 herein.

         (c) 57 - The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and all
                  amendments thereto through Amendment Number Two. See Exhibit
                  10(a)62 herein.

       * (c) 58 - Amendment Number Three to The Southern Company
                  Employee Stock Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

         (c) 59 - Pension Plan For Employees of GEORGIA, Amended and
                  Restated effective as of January 1, 1989 and all amendments
                  thereto through Amendment Number Three. See Exhibit 10(a)65
                  herein.

         (c) 60 - The Southern Company Performance Pay Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)67
                  herein.

       * (c) 61 - Amendment Number One and Amendment Number Two to The
                  Southern Company Performance Pay Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)68
                  herein.

         (c) 62 - Supplemental Benefit Plan for GEORGIA. See Exhibit
                  10(a)70 herein.

                                      E-23


         (c) 63 - The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)74 herein.

         (c) 64 - The Southern Company Outside Directors Pension Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

         (c) 65 - Outside Directors Stock Plan for Subsidiaries of The
                  Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit
                  10(a)76 herein.

         (c) 66 - The Southern Company Pension Plan, effective as of
                  January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

       * (c) 67 - Amendment Number One to The Southern Company Pension
                  Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)79 herein.

       * (c) 68 - The Southern Company Performance Stock Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)80 herein.

       * (c) 69 - The Southern Company Supplemental Executive
                  Retirement Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)81 herein.

       * (c) 70 - The Southern Company Performance Dividend Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)77 herein.

       * (c) 71 - The Southern Company Performance Sharing Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)82 herein.


         GULF

         (d)  1 - Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 6, 1985, between SCS and
                  ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)1 herein.

         (d) 2  - Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, effective
                  January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

         (d) 3  - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Purchase and
                  Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984,
                  Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 1, 1986 and Amendment No. 2
                  dated as of August 1, 1988, between GEORGIA and GULF. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)29 herein.

         (d) 4  - Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Operating
                  Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984, between GEORGIA and GULF.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)30 herein.

         (d) 5  - Plant Scherer Managing Board Agreement dated as of
                  December 31, 1990 among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG, Dalton, GULF, FP&L
                  and JEA. See Exhibit 10(a)54 herein.

         (d) 6  - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated
                  February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)33 herein.

                                      E-24


         (d) 7  - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May
                  19, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated August 30, 1984 and Amendment
                  No. 2 dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA,
                  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)34
                  herein.

         (d) 8  - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between
                  FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

         (d) 9  - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

         (d) 10 - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

         (d) 11 - Agreement between GULF and AEC, effective August 1, 1985.
                  (Designated in GULF's Form 10-K for the year ended December
                  31, 1985, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 10(g).)

         (d) 12 - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 1990,
                  between Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

         (d) 13 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

         (d) 14 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

       * (d) 15 - The Southern Company Productivity Improvement Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)59 herein.

       * (d) 16 - The Southern Company Executive Productivity
                  Improvement Plan, effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)60 herein.

         (d) 17 - The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective July 3, 1995 and all amendments thereto
                  through Amendment Number Six. See Exhibit 10(a)61 herein.

         (d) 18 - The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and all
                  amendments thereto through Amendment Number Two. See Exhibit
                  10(a)62 herein.

       * (d) 19 - Amendment Number Three to The Southern Company
                  Employee Stock Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

                                      E-25


         (d) 20 - Pension Plan For Employees of GULF, Amended and Restated
                  effective as of January 1, 1989 and all amendments thereto
                  through Amendment Number Three. (Designated in GULF's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 0-2429, as
                  Exhibit 10(d)18 and in GULF's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1996, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 10(d)22.)

         (d) 21 - The Southern Company Performance Pay Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)67
                  herein.

       * (d) 22 - Amendment Number One and Amendment Number Two to The
                  Southern Company Performance Pay Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)68
                  herein.

         (d) 23 - Supplemental Benefit Plan for GULF. (Designated in GULF's
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, File No.
                  0-2429, as Exhibit 10(d)22.)

         (d) 24 - The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)74 herein.

         (d) 25 - The Southern Company Outside Directors Pension Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

         (d) 26 - Outside Directors Stock Plan for Subsidiaries of The
                  Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit
                  10(a)76 herein.

         (d) 27 - The Southern Company Pension Plan, effective as of
                  January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

       * (d) 28 - Amendment Number One to The Southern Company Pension
                  Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)79 herein.


         MISSISSIPPI

         (e) 1  - Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and
                  Amendment No. 1 dated September 6, 1985, between SCS and
                  ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)1 herein.

         (e) 2  - Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, effective
                  January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

         (e) 3  - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated
                  February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)33 herein.

         (e) 4  - Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May
                  19, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated August 30, 1984, and Amendment
                  No. 2 dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA,
                  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)34
                  herein.

                                      E-26


         (e) 5  - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between
                  FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

         (e) 6  - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

         (e) 7  - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

         (e) 8  - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 1990, between
                  Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

         (e) 9  - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

         (e) 10 - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

         (e) 11 - Transmission Facilities Agreement dated February 25,
                  1982, Amendment No. 1 dated May 12, 1982 and Amendment No. 2
                  dated December 6, 1983, between Gulf States and MISSISSIPPI.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)45 herein.

         (e) 12 - Form of commitment agreement, Amendment No. 1 and
                  Amendment No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA and
                  MISSISSIPPI revolving credits. See Exhibit 10(a)46 herein.

         (e) 13 - Long Term Transmission Service Agreement between Entergy
                  Power, Inc. and ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit
                  10(a)53 herein.

       * (e) 14 - The Southern Company Productivity Improvement Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)59 herein.

       * (e) 15 - The Southern Company Executive Productivity
                  Improvement Plan, effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)60 herein.

         (e) 16 - The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective July 3, 1995 and all amendments thereto
                  through Amendment Number Six. See Exhibit 10(a)61 herein.

         (e) 17 - The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and all
                  amendments thereto through Amendment Number Two. See Exhibit
                  10(a)62 herein.

                                      E-27


       * (e) 18 - Amendment Number Three to The Southern Company
                  Employee Stock Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

         (e) 19 - Pension Plan For Employees of MISSISSIPPI, Amended and
                  Restated effective as of January 1, 1989 and all amendments
                  thereto through Amendment Number Three. (Designated in
                  MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,
                  File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(e)18 and in MISSISSIPPI's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 0-6849, as
                  Exhibit 10(e)21.)

         (e) 20 - The Southern Company Performance Pay Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)67
                  herein.

       * (e) 21 - Amendment Number One and Amendment Number Two to The
                  Southern Company Performance Pay Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)68
                  herein.

         (e) 22 - Supplemental Benefit Plan for MISSISSIPPI, Amended and
                  Restated effective as of January 1, 1996. (Designated in
                  MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996,
                  File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(e)23.)

         (e) 23 - The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)74 herein.

         (e) 24 - The Southern Company Outside Directors Pension Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

         (e) 25 - Outside Directors Stock Plan for Subsidiaries of The
                  Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit
                  10(a)76 herein.

         (e) 25 - The Southern Company Pension Plan, effective as of
                  January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

       * (e) 26 - Amendment Number One to The Southern Company Pension
                  Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)79 herein.


         SAVANNAH

         (f) 1  - Service contract dated as of March 3, 1988, between SCS
                  and SAVANNAH. See Exhibit 10(a)3 herein.

         (f) 2  - Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, effective
                  January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                  SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

         (f) 3  - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between
                  FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.
                  See Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

         (f) 4  - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

                                      E-28


         (f) 5  - Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

         (f) 6  - Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 1990, between
                  Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

         (f) 7  - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

         (f) 8  - Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,
                  between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                  and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

         (f) 9  - Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Purchase and Ownership
                  Participation Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as
                  of December 15, 1992. See Exhibit 10(a)55 herein.

         (f) 10 - Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Operating Agreement
                  between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated December 15, 1992. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)56 herein.

       * (f) 11 - The Southern Company Productivity Improvement Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)59 herein.

       * (f) 12 - The Southern Company Executive Productivity
                  Improvement Plan, effective January 1, 1997. See Exhibit
                  10(a)60 herein.

         (f) 13 - The Southern Company Employee Savings Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective July 3, 1995 and all amendments thereto
                  through Amendment Number Six. See Exhibit 10(a)61 herein.

         (f) 14 - The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,
                  Amended and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and all
                  amendments thereto through Amendment Number Two. See Exhibit
                  10(a)62 herein.

       * (f) 15 - Amendment Number Three to The Southern Company
                  Employee Stock Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

       * (f) 16 - Employees' Retirement Plan of SAVANNAH, Amended and
                  Restated effective January 1, 1997.

         (f) 17 - Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan of SAVANNAH,
                  Amended and Restated effective January 1, 1996 and Amendment
                  Number One thereto. (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for
                  the year ended December 31, 1995, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit
                  10(f)17 and in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1996, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(f)20.)

                                      E-29


       * (f) 18 - Amendment Number Two to The Supplemental Executive
                  Retirement Plan of SAVANNAH.

         (f) 19 - Deferred Compensation Plan for Key Employees of SAVANNAH
                  and all amendments thereto through Amendment Number Two.
                  (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1994, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(f)17, in
                  SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
                  File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(f)19 and in SAVANNAH's Form
                  10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, File No. 1-5072, as
                  Exhibit 10(f)22.)

         (f) 20 - The Southern Company Performance Pay Plan, Amended and
                  Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)67
                  herein.

       * (f) 21 - Amendment Number One and Amendment Number Two to The
                  Southern Company Performance Pay Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)68
                  herein.

         (f) 22 - The Southern Company Outside Directors Pension Plan. See
                  Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

       * (f) 23 - Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors of SAVANNAH.

         (f) 24 - Outside Directors Stock Plan for Subsidiaries of The
                  Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit
                  10(a)75 herein.

         (f) 25 - The Southern Company Pension Plan, effective as of
                  January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

       * (f) 26 - Amendment Number One to The Southern Company Pension
                  Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)79 herein.

(21)     *Subsidiaries of Registrants - Contained herein at page IV-5.

(23)     Consents of Experts and Counsel

         SOUTHERN

       * (a)    - The consent of Arthur Andersen LLP is contained herein
                  at page IV-6.

         ALABAMA

       * (b)    - The consent of Arthur Andersen LLP is contained herein
                  at page IV-7.

         GEORGIA

       * (c) -    The consent of Arthur Andersen LLP is contained herein
                  at page IV-8.

         GULF

       * (d)    - The consent of Arthur Andersen LLP is contained herein
                  at page IV-9.

                                      E-30


         MISSISSIPPI

       * (e)    - The consent of Arthur Andersen LLP is contained herein
                  at page IV-10.

         SAVANNAH

       * (f)    - The consent of Arthur Andersen LLP is contained herein
                  at page IV-11.

(24)     Powers of Attorney and Resolutions

         SOUTHERN

       * (a)    - Power of Attorney and resolution.

         ALABAMA

       * (b)    - Power of Attorney and resolution.

         GEORGIA

       * (c)    - Power of Attorney and resolution.

         GULF

       * (d)    - Power of Attorney and resolution.

         MISSISSIPPI

       * (e)    - Power of Attorney and resolution.

         SAVANNAH

       * (f)    - Power of Attorney and resolution.

(27)     Financial Data Schedule

         SOUTHERN

         (a)    - Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
                  February 11, 1998, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 27.)

         ALABAMA

         (b)    - Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
                  February 11, 1998, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 27.)


                                      E-31



         GEORGIA

         (c)    - Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
                  February 11, 1998, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 27.)

         GULF

         (d)    - Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
                  February 11, 1998, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 27.)

         MISSISSIPPI

         (e)    - Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
                  February 11, 1998, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 27.)

         SAVANNAH

         (f)    - Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
                  February 11, 1998, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 27.)



                                      E-32




