
10-K405
THE SOUTHERN COMPANY FORM 10-K 1996

















             Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrants were required to file such reports), and (2) have been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No___

             Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be 
contained, to the best of registrants' knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this 
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  (X)

             Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of
The Southern Company at February 28, 1997: $14.7 billion. Each of such other
registrants is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Southern Company and has no
voting stock other than its common stock. A description of registrants' common
stock follows:










                                     PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS

    SOUTHERN was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945.
SOUTHERN is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do
business as a foreign corporation under the laws of Alabama. SOUTHERN owns all
the outstanding common stock of ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and
SAVANNAH, each of which is an operating public utility company. ALABAMA and
GEORGIA each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO. The operating
affiliates supply electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, Florida,
Mississippi and Georgia, respectively, and SEGCO owns generating units at a
large electric generating station which supplies power to ALABAMA and GEORGIA.
More particular information relating to each of the operating affiliates is as
follows:

      ALABAMA is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama
      on November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power
      Company, Gulf Electric Company and Houston Power Company. The predecessor
      Alabama Power Company had had a continuous existence since its
      incorporation in 1906.

      GEORGIA was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June
      26, 1930, and admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948.

      GULF is a corporation which was organized under the laws of the State of
      Maine on November 2, 1925, and admitted to do business in Florida on
      January 15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976 and in Georgia on
      November 20, 1984.

      MISSISSIPPI was incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on
      July 12, 1972, was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28,
      1972, and effective December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the
      predecessor Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and
      properties of the latter company. The predecessor Mississippi Power
      Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine on November
      24, 1924, and was admitted to do business in Mississippi on December 23,
      1924, and in Alabama on December 7, 1962.

      SAVANNAH is a corporation existing under the laws of the State of Georgia;
      its charter was granted by the Secretary of State on August 5, 1921.

    SOUTHERN also owns all the outstanding common stock of Southern Energy,
Southern Communications, Southern Nuclear, SCS (the system service company),
Southern Development and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. Southern Energy
designs, builds, owns and operates power production and delivery facilities and
provides a broad range of energy-related services in the United States and
international markets. A further description of Southern Energy's business and
organization follows later in this section under "New Business Development."
Southern Communications provides digital wireless communications services to
SOUTHERN's operating affiliates and also markets these services to the public
within the Southeast. Southern Nuclear provides services to the Southern
electric system's nuclear plants. Southern Development develops new business
opportunities related to energy products and services.

    SEGCO owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of 1,019,680
kilowatts at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama, and
ALABAMA and GEORGIA are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO's capacity and
energy. ALABAMA acts as SEGCO's agent in the operation of SEGCO's units and
furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its units. SEGCO also owns three 230,000
volt transmission lines extending from Plant Gaston to the Georgia state line at
which point connection is made with the GEORGIA transmission line system.

The SOUTHERN System

The transmission facilities of each of the operating affiliates and SEGCO are
connected to the respective company's own generating plants and other sources of
power and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other
operating affiliates and SEGCO by means of heavy-duty high voltage lines. (In
the case of GEORGIA's integrated transmission system, see Item 1 - BUSINESS -
"Territory Served" herein.)

    Operating contracts covering arrangements in effect with principal
neighboring utility systems provide for capacity exchanges, capacity purchases
and sales, transfers of economy energy and other similar transactions.


                                      I-1


Additionally, the operating affiliates have entered into voluntary reliability
agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power
Coordinating Group and TVA and with Carolina Power & Light Company, Duke Power
Company, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and Virginia Electric and Power
Company, each of which provides for the establishment and periodic review of
principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation and
transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs,
emergency operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power
supply. The operating affiliates have joined with other utilities in the
Southeast (including those referred to above) to form the SERC to augment
further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply. Through the SERC, the
operating affiliates are represented on the National Electric Reliability
Council.

    An intra-system interchange agreement provides for coordinating operations
of the power producing facilities of the operating affiliates and SEGCO and the
capacities available to such companies from non-affiliated sources and for the
pooling of surplus energy available for interchange. Coordinated operation of
the entire interconnected system is conducted through a central power supply
coordination office maintained by SCS. The available sources of energy are
allocated to the operating affiliates to provide the most economical sources of
power consistent with good operation. The resulting benefits and savings are
apportioned among the operating affiliates.

    SCS has contracted with SOUTHERN, each operating affiliate, Southern Energy,
various of the other subsidiaries, Southern Nuclear and SEGCO to furnish, at
cost and upon request, the following services: general executive and advisory
services, power pool operations, general engineering, design engineering,
purchasing, accounting, finance and treasury, taxes, insurance and pensions,
corporate, rates, budgeting, public relations, employee relations, systems and
procedures and other services with respect to business and operations. Southern
Energy, Southern Development and Southern Communications have also secured from
the operating affiliates certain services which are furnished at cost.

    Southern Nuclear has contracted with ALABAMA to operate its Farley Nuclear
Plant, as authorized by amendments to the plant operating licenses. Effective
March 22, 1997, Southern Nuclear, pursuant to a contract with GEORGIA, assumed
responsibility for the operation of plants Hatch and Vogtle, as authorized by
amendments to the operating licenses for both plants. See Item 1 BUSINESS -
"Regulation - Atomic Energy Act of 1954" herein.

New Business Development

SOUTHERN continues to consider new business opportunities, particularly those
which allow use of the expertise and resources developed through its regulated
utility experience. These endeavors began in 1981 and are conducted through
Southern Energy and other subsidiaries. SOUTHERN presently has authorization
from the SEC (the "SEC Order") which in effect will allow it to use the proceeds
from financings to increase its aggregate investment in EWGs and FUCOs up to an
amount not exceeding 100% of SOUTHERN's consolidated retained earnings. A
consumer group that had sought to intervene in the SEC proceeding has filed an
appeal with U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit seeking judicial review
of the SEC Order. At December 31, 1996, SOUTHERN's consolidated retained
earnings amounted to $3,764 million, and its aggregate investment in EWGs and
FUCOs, after giving effect to the CEPA acquisition discussed below, amounted to
$2,524 million.

    Southern Energy develops, builds, owns and operates both cogeneration and
independent power production and delivery facilities in the North American and
international market. Southern Energy's trading and marketing subsidiary
provides power marketing and energy trading services to wholesale and retail
customers in North America.

    Reference is made to Note 15 to the financial statements of SOUTHERN in Item
8 herein for additional information regarding SOUTHERN's business segments and
geographic areas.

    In 1995, SOUTHERN acquired SWEB, one of the United Kingdom's 12 regional
electric distribution companies, for approximately $1.8 billion. SWEB is, to
some extent, involved in power generation and certain non-regulated activities
which include gas supply and telecommunications. In early 1997, SOUTHERN
acquired an 80% interest in CEPA for a total net investment of $2.1 billion.

                                      I-2




CEPA is engaged in the business of developing, constructing, owning and
operating electric power generation facilities. Its current operations include
installed operating capacity of approximately 3,995 megawatts, with projects
either completed or under development in the Philippines, the People's Republic
of China, Indonesia and Pakistan. For additional information regarding the
acquisitions of SWEB and CEPA, reference is made to Note 14 to SOUTHERN's
financial statements in Item 8 herein.

    See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Other Electric Generation Facilities" herein for
additional information regarding Southern Energy projects.

    Southern Energy and Southern Development render consulting services and
market SOUTHERN system expertise in the United States and throughout the world.
They contract with other public utilities, commercial concerns and government
agencies for the rendition of services and the licensing of intellectual
property. More specifically, Southern Development is focusing on new and
existing programs to enhance customer satisfaction and efficiency and
stockholder value, such as: Good Cents, an energy efficiency program for
electric utility customers; EnerLink, a group of energy management products and
services for large commercial and industrial electricity users; Flywheel, an
energy storage device; PowerCall Security, a home security system; other energy
management programs under development; and telecommunications operations related
to energy management programs.

     In 1995, Southern Communications began serving SOUTHERN's operating
affiliates and marketing its services to non-affiliates within the Southeast.
The system covers 122,000 square miles and combines the functions of two-way
radio dispatch, cellular phone, short text and numeric messaging and wireless
data transfer.

    These continuing efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities
offer the potential of earning returns which may exceed those of rate-regulated
operations. However, these activities also involve a higher degree of risk.
SOUTHERN expects to make substantial investments over the period 1997-1999 in
these and other new businesses.

Certain Factors Affecting the Industry

Various factors are currently affecting the electric utility industry in
general, including increasing competition and the regulatory changes related
thereto, costs required to comply with environmental regulations, and the
potential for new business opportunities (with their associated risks) outside
of traditional rate-regulated operations. The effects of these and other factors
on the SOUTHERN system are described herein; particular reference is made to
Item 1 - BUSINESS - "New Business Development," "Competition" and "Environmental
Regulation."

Construction Programs

The subsidiary companies of SOUTHERN are engaged in continuous construction
programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective
systems. Construction additions or acquisitions of property during 1997 through
1999 by the operating affiliates, SEGCO, SCS, Southern Nuclear, Southern
Communications and Southern Energy are estimated as follows: (in millions)

   ---------------------------- -------- --------- ---------
                                   1997      1998      1999
                                -------- --------- ---------
   ALABAMA                       $  425    $  519   $  622
   GEORGIA                          490       479      464
   GULF                              47        49       46
   MISSISSIPPI                       57        58      116
   SAVANNAH                          26        22       24
   SEGCO                              6         3        -
   SCS                                9         6        9
   Southern Nuclear                   1         1        1
   Southern
   Communications                    78        31       12
   Southern Energy*                 250       132      120
   ========================= =========== ========= =========
   SOUTHERN system               $1,389    $1,300   $1,414
   ========================= =========== ========= =========

    *These construction estimates do not include amounts which may be expended
by Southern Energy on future power production projects or by any subsidiaries
created to effect such future projects. (See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "New Business
Development" herein.)


                                      I-3




    *Southern Communications, SCS and Southern Nuclear plan capital additions to
general plant in 1997 of $78 million, $9 million and $1 million, respectively,
while SEGCO plans capital additions of $6 million to generating facilities.
Southern Energy plans capital additions of $137 million to generating
facilities, $112 million to distribution facilities, and $1 million to general
plant. These estimates do not reflect the possibility of Southern Energy's
securing a contract(s) to buy or build additional generating facilities. (See
Item 1 - BUSINESS - "New Business Development" herein.)

    The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and
actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous
factors. These factors include changes in business conditions; revised load
projections; changes in environmental regulations; changes in existing nuclear
plants to meet new regulatory requirements; increasing costs of labor, equipment
and materials; and cost of capital.

    The operating affiliates do not have any new traditional baseload generating
plants under construction. However, within the service area, the construction of
combustion turbine peaking units with an aggregate capacity of approximately 600
megawatts is planned to be completed by 1998. In addition, significant
construction related to transmission and distribution facilities and the
upgrading and extension of the useful lives of generating plants will continue.
(See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Other Electric Generation Facilities" herein for
additional information relating to facilities under development.)

    In 1991, the Georgia legislature passed legislation which requires GEORGIA
and SAVANNAH each to file an Integrated Resource Plan for approval by the
Georgia PSC. Under the plan rules, the Georgia PSC must pre-certify the
construction of new power plants and new purchase power contracts. (See Item 1 -
BUSINESS - "Rate Matters - Integrated Resource Planning" herein.)

    See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Regulation - Environmental Regulation" herein for
information with respect to certain existing and proposed environmental
requirements and Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein for
additional information concerning ALABAMA's and GEORGIA's joint ownership of
certain generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated
utilities.

                                      I-4




Financing Programs

SOUTHERN plans to issue additional equity capital in 1997. The amount and timing
of additional equity capital to be raised in 1997, as well as subsequent years,
will be contingent on SOUTHERN's investment opportunities, primarily through
Southern Energy. Equity capital can be provided from any combination of public
offerings, private placements, or SOUTHERN's stock plans. The operating
affiliates' construction programs are expected to be financed primarily from
internal sources. Short-term debt will be utilized as appropriate at SOUTHERN
and the operating affiliates. The operating affiliates may issue additional
long-term debt and preferred securities primarily for the purposes of debt
maturities and for redeeming higher-cost securities if market conditions permit.

    In order to issue first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, each of the
operating affiliates must comply with earnings coverage requirements contained
in its respective mortgage and charter. These provisions require, for the
issuance of additional first mortgage bonds, a minimum, before income tax,
earnings coverage of twice the pro forma annual interest charges on first
mortgage bonds and indebtedness secured by prior or equal ranking lien and, for
the issuance of additional preferred stock, a minimum, after income tax,
earnings coverage of one and one-half times pro forma annual interest charges
and preferred stock dividends, in each case for a period of twelve consecutive
calendar months within the fifteen calendar months immediately preceding the
proposed new issue. The ability to issue securities in the future will depend on
coverages at that time. Currently each of the operating affiliates expects to
have adequate coverage ratios for anticipated requirements through at least
1999.

    The amounts of securities representing short-term unsecured indebtedness
allowable under the respective charters, and the maximum amounts of short-term
or term-loan indebtedness authorized by the appropriate regulatory authorities,
are shown in the following table:


    ------------------------------------------------------
              Short-Term Unsecured Indebtedness
    ------------------------------------------------------
                          Allowable
                        Under Charter
                    at December 31, 1996

                                           Percent of
                                            Secured
                                          Indebtedness
                                           and Other
                         Amount           Capital (2)
                      -------------    -------------------
                       (Millions)
    ALABAMA             $  1,111               20%
    GEORGIA                1,549               20
    GULF                      90               10
    MISSISSIPPI              141               20
    SAVANNAH                  70               20
    SOUTHERN                  (1)              (1)
    ----------------- ------------- -- -------------------

    ------------------------------------------------------
            Short-Term or Term-Loan Indebtedness
    ------------------------------------------------------
                     Maximum Regulatory
                        Authorization

                                      Outstanding at
                       Amount        December 31, 1996
                     ------------    ---------------------
                               (Millions)
    ALABAMA          $  750 (3)               $365
    GEORGIA           1,700 (4)                430
    GULF                300 (3)                 76
    MISSISSIPPI         350 (3)                 80
    SAVANNAH             90 (4)                 35
    SOUTHERN          2,000 (3)                 67
    ------------------------------------------------------

Notes:

    (1)  No limitation.

    (2) Under the provisions of the respective charters, GEORGIA's,
MISSISSIPPI's and SAVANNAH's preferred stockholders have approved increases in
the amounts of securities representing short-term unsecured indebtedness which
the companies may have outstanding until July 1 in 2003, 1999 and 1999,
respectively. Such limitations were increased from 10% of secured indebtedness
and other capital to 20% thereof. These approved increases are reflected in the
above table.


                                      I-5



    (3) ALABAMA's authority is based on authorization received from the Alabama
PSC, which expires December 31, 1998. No SEC authorization is required for
ALABAMA. GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SOUTHERN have received SEC authorization to issue
from time to time short-term and/or term-loan notes to banks and commercial
paper to dealers in the amounts shown through December 31, 2003, December 31,
2002 and March 31, 2001, respectively.

    (4) GEORGIA and SAVANNAH have received SEC authorization to issue from time
to time short-term and term-loan notes to banks and commercial paper to dealers
in the amounts shown through December 31, 2002. Authorization for term-loan
indebtedness is also required by and has been received from the Georgia PSC.
Currently, GEORGIA and SAVANNAH have remaining authority from the Georgia PSC of
$471 million and $110 million expiring December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1998,
respectively.

    Reference is made to Note 5 to the financial statements for SOUTHERN,
ALABAMA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH and Note 9 to the financial statements
for GEORGIA in Item 8 herein for information regarding the registrants' credit
arrangements.


                                      I-6



Fuel Supply

The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's supply of electricity is derived
predominantly from coal. The sources of generation for the years 1994 through
1996 and the estimates for 1997 are shown below:
                                                   Oil and
   ALABAMA            Coal    Nuclear    Hydro       Gas
                    --------- ---------- --------- ---------
            1994       68%       23%        9%        *
            1995       73        19         8         *
            1996       72        20         8         *
            1997       74        19         7         *

   GEORGIA
            1994       75        22         3         *
            1995       74        22         3         1
            1996       74        22         3         1
            1997       77        21         2         *

   GULF
            1994      100        **        **         *
            1995       99        **        **         1
            1996       99        **        **         1
            1997       99        **        **         1

   MISSISSIPPI
            1994       85        **        **        15
            1995       79        **        **        21
            1996       85        **        **        15
            1997       83        **        **        17

   SAVANNAH
            1994       91        **        **         9
            1995       80        **        **        20
            1996       90        **        **        10
            1997       92        **        **         8

   SEGCO
            1994      100        **        **         *
            1995      100        **        **         *
            1996      100        **        **         *
            1997      100        **        **         *

   SOUTHERN system***
            1994       75        19         5         1
            1995       77        17         4         2
            1996       77        17         4         2
            1997       78        17         4         1
   -------- ------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------
    *Less than 0.5%.
   **Not applicable.
  ***Amounts shown for the SOUTHERN system are weighted
     averages of the operating affiliates and SEGCO.

    The average costs of fuel in cents per net kilowatt-hour generated for 1994
through 1996 are shown below:

                                              Oil and   Weighted
   ALABAMA             Coal      Nuclear       Gas      Average
                       --------- ---------- ----------- -----------
            1994        1.92       0.49           *        1.56
            1995        1.71       0.50           *        1.48
            1996        1.71       0.50           *        1.46

   GEORGIA
            1994        1.67       0.63           *        1.44
            1995        1.67       0.60        4.68        1.44
            1996        1.55       0.55        5.50        1.35

   GULF
            1994        2.00         **           *        2.01
            1995        2.08         **        3.56        2.09
            1996        1.99         **        6.41        2.02

   MISSISSIPPI
            1994        1.67         **        2.60        1.71
            1995        1.58         **        2.33        1.64
            1996        1.43         **        4.32        1.57

   SAVANNAH
            1994        2.19         **        4.72        2.42
            1995        1.77         **        3.80        2.18
            1996        1.76         **        8.41        2.42

   SEGCO
            1994        1.83          **          *        1.83
            1995        1.87          **          *        1.87
            1996        1.72          **          *        1.72

   SOUTHERN system***
            1994        1.80        0.56       3.99        1.56
            1995        1.73        0.56       3.37        1.53
            1996        1.65        0.52       5.20        1.48
   -------- -------- ------------ ---------- ---------- -----------
    *Not meaningful because of minimal generation from fuel
      source.
   **Not applicable.
  ***Amounts shown for the SOUTHERN system are weighted
     averages of the operating affiliates and SEGCO.

     See SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA in Item 6 herein for each registrant's source
of energy supply.

                                      I-7




    As of February 14, 1997, the operating affiliates and SEGCO had stockpiles
of coal on hand at their respective coal-fired plants which represented an
estimated 23 days of recoverable supply for bituminous coal and 30 days for
sub-bituminous coal. It is estimated that approximately 61.3 million tons of
coal will be consumed in 1997 by the operating affiliates and SEGCO (including
those units GEORGIA owns jointly with OPC, MEAG and Dalton and operates for FP&L
and JEA and the units ALABAMA owns jointly with AEC). The operating affiliates
and SEGCO currently have 39 coal contracts. These contracts cover remaining
terms of up to 15 years. Approximately 22% of 1997 estimated coal requirements
will be purchased in the spot market. Management has set a goal whereby the spot
market should be utilized, absent the transition from coal contract expirations,
for 20 to 30% of the SOUTHERN system's coal supply. Additionally, it has been
determined that approximately 30 days of recoverable supply is the appropriate
level for coal stockpiles. During 1996, the operating affiliates' and SEGCO's
average price of coal delivered was approximately $38 per ton.

    The typical sulfur content of coal purchased under contracts ranges from
approximately 0.49% to 2.76% sulfur by weight. Fuel sulfur restrictions and
other environmental limitations have increased significantly and may increase
further the difficulty and cost of obtaining an adequate coal supply. See Item 1
- - BUSINESS - "Regulation - Environmental Regulation" herein.

    Changes in fuel prices are generally reflected in fuel adjustment clauses
contained in rate schedules.  See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Rate Matters - Rate 
Structure" herein.

    ALABAMA owns coal lands and mineral rights in the Warrior Coal Field,
located northwest of Birmingham in the vicinity of its Gorgas Steam Plant. SEGCO
also owns coal reserves in the Warrior Coal Field and in the Cahaba Coal Field,
which is located southwest of Birmingham. ALABAMA has agreements with
non-affiliated industrial and mining firms to mine coal from ALABAMA's reserves,
as well as their own reserves, for supply to ALABAMA's generating units.

    The operating affiliates have renegotiated, bought out or otherwise
terminated various coal supply contracts. For more information on certain of
these transactions, see Note 5 to the financial statements of GULF in Item 8
herein.

    ALABAMA and GEORGIA have numerous contracts covering a portion of their
nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services, enrichment services and
fuel fabrication. These contracts have varying expiration dates and most are
short to medium term (less than 10 years). Management believes that sufficient
capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the
impairment of normal operations of the SOUTHERN system's nuclear generating
units.

    ALABAMA and GEORGIA have contracts with the DOE that provide for the
permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Although disposal was scheduled to
begin in 1998, the actual year this service will begin is uncertain. Sufficient
storage capacity currently is available to permit operation into 2003 at Plant
Hatch, into 2008 at Plant Vogtle, and into 2010 and 2013 at Plant Farley units 1
and 2, respectively. Activities for adding dry cask storage capacity at Plant
Hatch by as early as 1999 are in progress.

    The Energy Act imposed upon utilities with nuclear plants, including ALABAMA
and GEORGIA, obligations for the decontamination and decommissioning of federal
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. See Note 1 to SOUTHERN's, ALABAMA's and
GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein.

Territory Served

The territory in which the operating affiliates provide electric service
comprises most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the
northwestern portion of Florida and southeastern Mississippi. In this territory
there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems which obtain some or all
of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the operating
affiliates. The territory has an area of approximately 120,000 square miles and
an estimated population of approximately 11 million.


                                      I-8


    ALABAMA is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and
purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such electricity at
retail in over 1,000 communities (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden,
Mobile, Montgomery and Tuscaloosa) and at wholesale to 15 municipally-owned
electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly through sales
to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative associations. ALABAMA also
supplies steam service in downtown Birmingham. ALABAMA owns coal reserves near
its steam-electric generating plant at Gorgas and uses the output of coal from
these reserves in some of its generating plants. ALABAMA also sells, and
cooperates with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

    GEORGIA is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the
distribution and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia at retail
in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon,
Rome and Valdosta), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to 39
electric cooperative associations through OPC, a corporate cooperative of
electric membership cooperatives in Georgia, and to 50 municipalities, 48 of
which are served through MEAG, a public corporation and an instrumentality of
the State of Georgia.

    GULF is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the
generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such
electricity at retail in 71 communities (including Pensacola, Panama City and
Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to a
non-affiliated utility and a municipality. GULF also sells electric appliances.

    MISSISSIPPI is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the
distribution and sale of such energy within the 23 counties of southeastern
Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport,
Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and at
wholesale to one municipality, six rural electric distribution cooperative
associations and one generating and transmitting cooperative.

    SAVANNAH is engaged, within a five-county area in eastern Georgia, in the
generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such
electricity at retail and, as a member of the SOUTHERN system power pool, the
transmission and sale of wholesale energy.

    The sources of revenues for the SOUTHERN system and each of SOUTHERN's
operating affiliates are shown in Item 6 herein. For the year ended December 31,
1996, the registrants derived their respective industrial revenues as shown in
the following table.


                                      I-9



    A portion of the area served by SOUTHERN's operating affiliates adjoins the
area served by TVA and its municipal and cooperative distributors. An Act of
Congress limits the distribution of TVA power, unless otherwise authorized by 
Congress, to specified areas or customers which generally were those served 
on July 1, 1957.

    The RUS has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or
corporations to enable them to provide electric service to customers in rural
sections of the country. There are 71 electric cooperative organizations
operating in the territory in which the operating affiliates provide electric
service at retail or wholesale.

    One of these, AEC, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling
power to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems and other
customers in south Alabama and northwest Florida. AEC owns generating units with
approximately 840 megawatts of nameplate capacity, including an undivided
ownership interest in ALABAMA's Plant Miller Units 1 and 2. AEC's facilities
were financed with RUS loans secured by long-term contracts requiring
distributing cooperatives to take their requirements from AEC to the extent such
energy is available. Two of the 14 distributing cooperatives operating in
ALABAMA's service territory obtain a portion of their power requirements
directly from ALABAMA.

    Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the RUS, operate within
GULF's service area. These cooperatives purchase their full requirements from
AEC and SEPA. A non-affiliated utility also operates within GULF's service area
and purchases a portion of its requirements from GULF.

    ALABAMA and GULF have entered into separate agreements with AEC involving
interconnection between the respective systems and, in the case of ALABAMA, the
delivery of capacity and energy from AEC to certain distributing cooperatives.
The rates for the various services provided by ALABAMA and GULF to AEC are based
on formulary approaches which result in the charges by each company being
updated annually, subject to FERC approval. See Item 2 - PROPERTIES -
"Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein for details of ALABAMA's joint-ownership with
AEC of a portion of Plant Miller.

    Another of the 71 electric cooperatives is SMEPA, also a generating and
transmitting cooperative. SMEPA has a generating capacity of 739,000 kilowatts
and a transmission system estimated to be 1,357 miles in length. MISSISSIPPI has
an interchange agreement with SMEPA pursuant to which various services are
provided, including the furnishing of protective capacity by MISSISSIPPI to
SMEPA.

    There are 43 electric cooperative organizations operating in, or in areas
adjoining, territory in the State of Georgia in which GEORGIA provides electric
service at retail or wholesale. Three of these organizations obtain their power
from TVA and one from other sources. Since July 1, 1975, OPC has supplied the
requirements of the remaining 39 of these cooperative organizations from
self-owned generation acquired from GEORGIA and, until September 1991, through
partial requirements purchases from GEORGIA. GEORGIA entered into an agreement
with OPC pursuant to which, effective in September 1991, OPC ceased to be a
partial requirements wholesale customer of GEORGIA. Instead, OPC began the
purchase of 1,250 megawatts of capacity from GEORGIA through 1999, subject to
reduction or extension by OPC, and may satisfy the balance of its needs through
purchases from others. Beginning in September 1996, OPC decreased its purchases
of capacity by 250 megawatts and has notified GEORGIA of its intent to decrease
purchases of capacity by an additional 250 megawatts in September 1997, and an
additional 250 megawatts in September 1998. Under the amended 1995 Integrated
Resource Plan approved by the Georgia PSC on March 4, 1997, these resources will
be used to meet the needs of GEORGIA's retail customers through 2004.

    There are 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating in
the territory in which SOUTHERN's operating affiliates provide electric service
at retail or wholesale.

    AMEA was organized under an act of the Alabama legislature and is comprised
of 11 municipalities. In 1986, ALABAMA entered into a firm power purchase
contract with AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of capacity (to a maximum
of 100 megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing September 1, 1986. In
October 1991, ALABAMA entered into a second firm power purchase contract with

                                      I-10


AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of additional capacity (to a maximum 80
megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing October 1, 1991. In both
contracts the power will be sold to AMEA for its member municipalities that
previously were served directly by ALABAMA as wholesale customers. Under the
terms of the contracts, ALABAMA received payments from AMEA representing the net
present value of the revenues associated with the respective capacity
entitlements. See Note 7 to ALABAMA's financial statements in Item 8 herein for
further information on these contracts.

    Forty-seven municipally-owned electric distribution systems formerly served
on a full requirements wholesale basis by GEORGIA and one county-owned system
now receive their requirements through MEAG, which was established by a state
statute in 1975. MEAG serves these requirements from self-owned generation
facilities acquired from GEORGIA and through purchases of capacity and energy
from GEORGIA under partial requirements rates. On January 10, 1997, GEORGIA and
MEAG reached an agreement to enter into a new power supply relationship which
would replace in their entirety the partial requirements tariff and the
scheduling services agreement between GEORGIA and MEAG. The agreement required
the parties to formalize a new contractual relationship and file the new
contract with the FERC for approval. Similarly, since 1977 Dalton has filled its
requirements from generation facilities acquired from GEORGIA and through
partial requirements purchases. One municipally-owned electric distribution
system's full requirements are served under a market-based contract by GEORGIA.
(See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.)

    GULF and MISSISSIPPI provide wholesale requirements for one municipal system
each.

    GEORGIA has entered into substantially similar agreements with OPC, MEAG and
Dalton providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission system to
carry the power and energy of each. The agreements require an investment by each
party in the integrated transmission system in proportion to its respective
share of the aggregate system load. (See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned
Facilities" herein.)

    SCS, acting on behalf of ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH
also has a contract with SEPA (a federal power marketing agency) providing for
the use of those companies' facilities at government expense to deliver to
certain cooperatives and municipalities, entitled by federal statute to
preference in the purchase of power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to
the amounts of power allocated to them by SEPA from certain United States
Government hydroelectric projects.

    The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of Georgia
are regulated by the 1973 State Territorial Electric Service Act. Pursuant to
the provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal limits were
assigned to the primary electric supplier therein on March 29, 1973 (451
municipalities, including Atlanta, Columbus, Macon, Augusta, Athens, Rome and
Valdosta, to GEORGIA; 115 to electric cooperatives; and 50 to publicly-owned
systems). Areas outside of such municipal limits were either to be assigned or
to be declared open for customer choice of supplier by action of the Georgia PSC
pursuant to standards set forth in the Act. Consistent with such standards, the
Georgia PSC has assigned substantially all of the land area in the state to a
supplier. Notwithstanding such assignments, the Act provides that any new
customer locating outside of 1973 municipal limits and having a connected load
of at least 900 kilowatts may receive electric service from the supplier of its
choice. (See also Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Competition" herein.)

    Under and subject to the provisions of its franchises and concessions and
the 1973 State Territorial Electric Service Act, SAVANNAH has the full but
nonexclusive right to serve the City of Savannah, the Towns of Bloomingdale,
Pooler, Garden City, Guyton, Newington, Oliver, Port Wentworth, Rincon, Tybee
Island, Springfield, Thunderbolt, Vernonburg, and in conjunction with a
secondary supplier, the Town of Richmond Hill. In addition, SAVANNAH has been
assigned certain unincorporated areas in Chatham, Effingham, Bryan, Bulloch and
Screven Counties by the Georgia PSC. (See also Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Competition"
herein.)

                                      I-11


    Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued "Grandfather
Certificates" of convenience and necessity to MISSISSIPPI and to six
distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then
served in whole or in part by MISSISSIPPI, authorizing them to distribute
electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state.
The six cooperatives serve approximately 300,000 retail customers in a
certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles. In areas included in a
"Grandfather Certificate," the utility holding such certificate may, without
further certification, extend its lines up to five miles; other extensions
within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except
upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and
necessity. Areas included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed
to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the certificate,
irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing municipality. On the
other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service into
such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.

Long-Term Power Sales Agreements

Reference is made to Note 7 to the financial statements for SOUTHERN, ALABAMA,
GEORGIA, GULF and MISSISSIPPI in Item 8 herein for information regarding
contracts for the sales of capacity and energy to non-territorial customers.

Competition

The electric utility industry in general has become, and is expected to continue
to be, increasingly competitive as the result of factors including regulatory
and technological developments. The Energy Act, enacted in 1992, was intended to
foster competition in the wholesale market by, among other things, facilitating
participation by independent power producers. The Energy Act includes provisions
authorizing the FERC under certain conditions to order utilities owning
transmission facilities to provide wholesale transmission services for other
utilities or entities that generate energy.


     Various federal and state initiatives designed to promote wholesale and
retail competition include, among other things, proposals that would allow
customers to choose their electricity provider. As the initiatives materialize,
the structure of the utility industry could radically change. Certain
initiatives could result in a change in the ownership and/or operation of
generation and transmission facilities. Numerous issues must be resolved,
including significant ones relating to transmission pricing and recovery of
stranded investments. Being a low-cost producer could provide significant
opportunities to increase market share and profitability in markets that evolve
with changing regulation. Unless SOUTHERN remains a low-cost producer and
provides quality service, SOUTHERN's retail energy sales could be limited, and
this could significantly erode earnings. Reference is made to each registrant's
"Management's Discussion and Analysis - Future Earnings Potential" in Item 7
herein for further discussion of competition.

    In order to adapt to the increasingly competitive environment in which they
operate, SOUTHERN and the operating affiliates will evaluate and consider a wide
array of potential business strategies. These may include business combinations
or acquisitions involving other utility or non-utility businesses or properties,
internal restructurings or reorganizations involving SOUTHERN, the operating
affiliates or some combination thereof or dispositions of currently owned
properties or currently operated business units. In addition to power marketing
activities, SOUTHERN and the operating affiliates may engage in other new
business ventures which arise from competitive and regulatory changes in the
utility industry. Pursuit of any of the above strategies, or any combination
thereof, may significantly affect the business operations and financial
condition of SOUTHERN and the operating affiliates. (See Item 1 - BUSINESS -
"New Business Development" herein.)

    As a result of the foregoing factors, SOUTHERN has experienced increasing
competition for available off-system sales of capacity and energy from


                                      I-12



neighboring utilities and alternative sources of energy. Additionally, the
future effect of cogeneration and small-power production facilities on the
SOUTHERN system cannot currently be determined but may be adverse.

    ALABAMA currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with nine industrial
customers. Under the terms of these contracts, ALABAMA purchases excess
generation of such companies. During 1996, ALABAMA purchased approximately 77
million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $1.2 million. ALABAMA
has entered into agreements with two of its industrial customers to construct
cogeneration facilities at their premises. For additional information, reference
is made to ALABAMA's "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Capital
Requirements" in Item 7 herein.

    GEORGIA currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with seven industrial
customers. Under the terms of these contracts, GEORGIA purchases excess
generation of such companies. During 1996, GEORGIA purchased 5 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $119,000. GEORGIA has entered
into a 30-year purchase power agreement, scheduled to begin in June 1998, for
electricity during peaking periods from a planned 300-megawatt cogeneration
facility. Payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum
capacity output. Reference is made to Note 4 to the financial statements for
GEORGIA in Item 8 herein for information regarding purchase power commitments.

    GULF currently has cogeneration agreements for "as available" energy in
effect with two industrial customers. During 1996, GULF purchased 82 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies for $1.8 million.

     MISSISSIPPI entered into agreements to purchase summer peaking power and
options for power for the years 1996 through 2000. Also, the Company has
purchased options from power marketers. Reference is made to Note 5 to the
financial statements for MISSISSIPPI in Item 8 herein for information regarding
fuel and purchased power commitments.

    SAVANNAH currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with four industrial
customers. Under the terms of these contracts, SAVANNAH purchases excess
generation of such companies. During 1996, SAVANNAH purchased 2 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $56,000.

    The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of energy
is influenced by various factors, including price, availability, technological
advancements and reliability. These factors are, in turn, affected by, among
other influences, regulatory, political and environmental considerations,
taxation and supply.

     The operating affiliates have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in
varying degrees as the result of self-generation (as described above) and fuel
switching by customers and other factors. (See also Item 1 - BUSINESS -
"Territory Served" herein for information concerning suppliers of electricity
operating within or near the areas served at retail by the operating
affiliates.)

Regulation

State Commissions

The operating affiliates and SEGCO are subject to the jurisdiction of their
respective state regulatory commissions, which have broad powers of supervision
and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states,
including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the
Mississippi PSC) and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and Mississippi PSC, in
part, retail service territories. (See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Rate Matters" and
"Territory Served" herein.)

Holding Company Act

SOUTHERN is registered as a holding company under the Holding Company Act, and
it and its subsidiary companies are subject to the regulatory provisions of said
Act, including provisions relating to the issuance of securities, sales and
acquisitions of securities and utility assets, services performed by SCS and
Southern Nuclear, and the activities of certain of SOUTHERN's special purpose
subsidiaries.


                                      I-13



    In June 1995, the Division of Investment Management of the SEC issued a
report on its study of the regulation of public-utility holding companies.
Concluding that significant changes in the current regulatory system are needed,
the report offers various legislative and administrative recommendations for
reform. The legislative option preferred by the Division in the report is repeal
of the Holding Company Act coupled with new provisions for state access to books
and records of holding company system companies and for federal audit authority
and oversight of intrasystem transactions. However, the prospects for
legislative reform of the Holding Company Act are uncertain at this time.

Federal Power Act

The Federal Power Act subjects the operating affiliates and SEGCO to regulation
by the FERC as companies engaged in the transmission or sale at wholesale of
electric energy in interstate commerce, including regulation of accounting
policies and practices.

    ALABAMA and GEORGIA are also subject to the provisions of the Federal Power
Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with respect
to their hydroelectric developments. Among the hydroelectric projects subject to
licensing by the FERC are 14 existing ALABAMA generating stations having an
aggregate installed capacity of 1,582,725 kilowatts and 18 existing GEORGIA
generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,074,696
kilowatts.

    The FERC granted three of GEORGIA's hydroelectric projects, the Lloyd
Shoals, Langdale and Riverview new 30-year licenses that expire on January 1,
2024. The North Georgia Project was issued a new 40-year license effective
October 1, 1996. There are numerous articles in this new license which require
releases from some of the dams. These releases include those for minimum flows,
aesthetics, and whitewater recreation. Reservoir level fluctuation limitations
are also present. Additionally, the FERC has issued an order granting a
combined, 40-year license for ALABAMA's Yates and Thurlow projects. As a part of
the application for the combined, 40-year license for the Yates and Thurlow
projects, ALABAMA agreed to expand the capacity of these units by a total of
approximately 10 megawatts.

    The FERC granted GEORGIA a new license, effective May 1, 1996, for Sinclair
Dam. The license articles contain requirements to modify operational and minimum
flows to enhance the environment for the robust redhorse (a threatened or
endangered candidate species). License articles also cover issues such as:
operation of spillway gates, establishment of flow monitoring committees, and
recreational enhancements.

    GEORGIA filed, in September, 1996, with the FERC, a notice of its intent to
seek a new license for the Flint River Project. Currently GEORGIA is awaiting a
decision from the FERC as to whether or not the FERC has jurisdiction over this
station. If the FERC determines it does not, then dam safety responsibilities
shift to the State of Georgia and GEORGIA would not incur relicensing costs
other than those incurred to date.

    GEORGIA and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky
Mountain Plant, a pure pumped storage facility of 847,800 kilowatt capacity
which began commercial operation in 1995. (See Item 2 - PROPERTIES -
"Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein and Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and GEORGIA's
financial statements in Item 8 herein for additional information.)

    Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in the
period 2007-2023 in the case of ALABAMA's projects and in the period 2005-2020
in the case of GEORGIA's projects.

    Upon or after the expiration of each license, the United States Government,
by act of Congress, may take over the project, or the FERC may relicense the
project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee. In the event of
takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be compensated
in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such compensation to
reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not in excess of the
fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to other property of
the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the property taken.

Atomic Energy Act of 1954

ALABAMA, GEORGIA and Southern Nuclear are subject to the provisions of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, which vests jurisdiction in the NRC over



                                      I-14



the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, particularly with regard to
certain public health and safety and antitrust matters. The National
Environmental Policy Act has been construed to expand the jurisdiction of the
NRC to consider the environmental impact of a facility licensed under the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954, as amended.

    Reference is made to Notes 1 and 13 to SOUTHERN's, Notes 1 and 12 to
ALABAMA's and Notes 1 and 5 to GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein
for information on nuclear decommissioning costs and nuclear insurance.
Additionally, Note 3 to GEORGIA's financial statements contains information
regarding nuclear performance standards imposed by the Georgia PSC that may
impact retail rates.

Environmental Regulation

The operating affiliates and SEGCO are subject to federal, state and local
environmental requirements which, among other things, control emissions of
particulates, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into the air; the use,
transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic waste; and
discharges of pollutants, including thermal discharges, into waters of the
United States. The operating affiliates and SEGCO expect to comply with such
requirements, which generally are becoming increasingly stringent, through
technical improvements, the use of appropriate combinations of low-sulfur fuel
and chemicals, addition of environmental control facilities, changes in control
techniques and reduction of the operating levels of generating facilities.
Failure to comply with such requirements could result in the complete shutdown
of individual facilities not in compliance as well as the imposition of civil
and criminal penalties.

    Reference is made to each registrant's "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" in Item 7 herein for a discussion of the Clean Air Act and other
environmental legislation and proceedings.

    Possible adverse health effects of EMFs from various sources, including
transmission and distribution lines, have been the subject of
a number of studies and increasing public discussion. The scientific research
currently is inconclusive as to whether EMFs may cause adverse health effects.
However, there is the possibility of passage of legislation and promulgation of
rulemaking that would require measures to mitigate EMFs, with resulting
increases in capital and operating costs. In addition, the potential exists for
public liability with respect to lawsuits brought by plaintiffs alleging damages
caused by EMFs.

    The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's estimated capital expenditures for
environmental quality control facilities for the years 1997, 1998 and 1999 are
as follows:  (in millions)

   ---------------------------------------------------------
                          1997          1998          1999
                       -------------------------------------
   ALABAMA               $16.7         $31.0         $52.1
   GEORGIA                 9.0          10.0          12.0
   GULF                    3.1           0.9           -
   MISSISSIPPI             2.0           0.2           1.9
   SAVANNAH                2.6           0.8           3.3
   SEGCO                   1.7            -              -
                       -------------------------------------
     SOUTHERN
       system            $35.1         $42.9         $69.3
   =========================================================

    *The foregoing estimates are included in the current construction programs.
(See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Construction Programs" herein.)

    Additionally, each operating affiliate and SEGCO have incurred costs for
environmental remediation of various sites. Reference is made to each
registrant's "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in Item 7 herein for
information regarding the registrants' environmental remediation efforts. Also,
see Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein for
information regarding the identification of sites that may require environmental
remediation by GEORGIA and Note 3 to MISSISSIPPI's financial statements in Item
8 herein for information regarding a site that may require environmental
remediation by MISSISSIPPI.

    The operating affiliates and SEGCO are unable to predict at this time what
additional steps they may be required to take as a result of the implementation
of existing or future quality control requirements for air, water and hazardous
or toxic materials, but such steps could adversely affect system operations and
result in substantial additional costs.


                                      I-15


    The outcome of the matters mentioned above under "Regulation" cannot now be
determined, except that these developments may result in delays in obtaining
appropriate licenses for generating facilities, increased construction and
operating costs, or reduced generation, the nature and extent of which, while
not determinable at this time, could be substantial.

Rate Matters

Rate Structure

The rates and service regulations of the operating affiliates are uniform for
each class of service throughout their respective service areas. Rates for
residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon
kilowatt-hours used and include minimum charges.

    Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges. Rates for
commercial service are presently of the block type and, for large customers, the
billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill charges.
These large customers' rates are generally based upon usage by the customer
including those with special features to encourage off-peak usage. Additionally,
the operating affiliates are allowed by their respective PSCs to negotiate the
terms and compensation of service to large customers. Such terms and
compensation of service, however, are subject to final PSC approval. With
respect to MISSISSIPPI's retail rates, fuel and purchased power costs above base
levels included in the various rate schedules are billed to such customers under
the fuel and energy adjustment clause. GULF and SAVANNAH recover from retail
customers fuel and net purchased power costs through provisions which are
adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such costs. ALABAMA and GEORGIA
are allowed by state law to recover fuel and net purchased energy costs through
fuel cost recovery provisions which are adjusted to reflect increases or
decreases in such costs. GULF's recovery of fuel costs is based upon a
projection for six-months - any over/under recovery during such period is
reflected in a subsequent six-month period with interest. GULF's recovery of
purchased power capacity costs is based upon an annual projection - any
over/under recovery during such period is reflected in a subsequent annual
period with interest. The adjustment factors for MISSISSIPPI's retail and
wholesale rates are levelized based on the estimated energy cost for the year,
adjusted for any actual over/under collection from the previous year. Revenues
are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts actually
recovered in current rates.

Rate Proceedings

Reference is made to Note 3 to each registrant's financial statements in Item 8
herein for a discussion of rate matters. For each registrant (except SAVANNAH),
such Note 3 includes a discussion of proceedings initiated by the FERC
concerning the reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate
schedules and contracts that have a return on equity of 13.75% or greater.

    For information regarding GEORGIA's Rocky Mountain Plant, including a joint
ownership agreement with OPC and the uncertain recovery of GEORGIA's costs in
this plant, reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and to GEORGIA's financial
statements in Item 8 herein.

    In September 1996, the Florida PSC approved GULF's new optional
Commercial/Industrial Service Rider, which is applicable to the rate schedules
for GULF's largest existing and potential customers who are able to show they
have viable alternatives to purchasing GULF's energy services. For additional
information, reference is made to GULF's "Management's Discussion and Analysis -
Future Earnings Potential" in Item 7 herein.

Integrated Resource Planning

In 1991, the Georgia legislature passed certain legislation under which both
GEORGIA and SAVANNAH must file Integrated Resource Plans for approval by the
Georgia PSC. The plans must specify how GEORGIA and SAVANNAH each intends to
meet the future electrical needs of their customers through a combination of
demand-side and supply-side resources. The Georgia PSC must pre-certify these
new resources. Once certified, all prudently incurred construction costs and
purchased power costs will be recoverable through rates.

    
                                  I-16



    By orders issued in 1992 and by amended orders issued in 1995, the Georgia
PSC approved Integrated Resource Plans for both GEORGIA and SAVANNAH. (See Note
3 to GEORGIA's and SAVANNAH's financial statements in Item 8 herein for
information regarding demand-side option programs.)

    On March 4, 1997, the Georgia PSC approved amendments to GEORGIA's 1995
Integrated Resource Plan. Pursuant to the amended plan, the Georgia PSC
certified a five-year purchase power agreement scheduled to begin in June 2000
for approximately 215 megawatts. Capacity and fixed operation and maintenance
payments over the five-year period are estimated to be approximately $39
million.

    The Florida PSC set energy conservation goals for GULF, beginning in 1995,
that require programs to reduce 154 megawatts of summer peak demand and 65,000
kilowatt-hours of sales by the year 2004. For additional information, reference
is made to GULF's "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Future Earnings
Potential" in Item 7 herein.

Environmental Cost Recovery Plans

GULF and MISSISSIPPI both have retail rate mechanisms that provide for recovery
of environmental compliance costs. For a description of these plans, see Note 3
to GULF's and MISSISSIPPI's financial statements in Item 8 herein.

Employee Relations

The companies of the SOUTHERN system had a total of 29,246 employees on their
payrolls at December 31, 1996.

   ------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Employees
                                                 at
                                         December 31, 1996
                                      -------------------------
   ALABAMA                                        6,865
   GEORGIA                                       10,346
   GULF                                           1,384
   MISSISSIPPI                                    1,363
   SAVANNAH                                         571
   SCS                                            3,021
   Southern Communications                          129
   Southern Development                              72
   Southern Energy*                               4,212
   Southern Nuclear                               1,283
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                                         29,246
   ============================================================
*Includes 3,710 employees on international payrolls.

    The operating affiliates have separate agreements with local unions of the
IBEW generally covering wages, working conditions and procedures for handling
grievances and arbitration. These agreements apply with certain exceptions to
operating, maintenance and construction employees.

    ALABAMA has agreements with the IBEW on a three-year contract extending to
August 15, 1998. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date,
negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective
after such date.

    GEORGIA has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working
conditions, which is in effect through June 30, 1999. GEORGIA also has a
contract with the United Plant Guard Workers of America with respect to Plant
Hatch which extends through September 30, 1998.

    GULF has an agreement with the IBEW on a three-year contract extending to
August 15, 1998.

    MISSISSIPPI has an agreement with the IBEW on a three-year contract
extending to August 16, 1998.

                                      I-17


    SAVANNAH has three-year labor agreements with the IBEW and the Office and
Professional Employees International Union that expire April 16, 1999 and
December 1, 1999, respectively.

    Southern Energy has agreements with local unions of the IBEW and the United
Paperworkers International Union which covers employees of Mobile Energy. These
agreements extend to May 31, 1997. Southern Energy is currently in negotiations
with the IBEW and the United Paperworkers International Union.

    Southern Nuclear has an agreement with the IBEW on a three-year contract
extending to August 15, 1998. Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that
date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be
effective after such date.

    The agreements also subject the terms of the pension plans for the companies
discussed above to collective bargaining with the unions at five-year intervals.



                                      I-18





Item 2.  PROPERTIES

Electric Properties

The operating affiliates and SEGCO, at December 31, 1996, operated 33
hydroelectric generating stations, 32 fossil fuel generating stations and three
nuclear generating stations. The amounts of capacity owned by each company are
shown in the table below.


   ----------------------- -------------------------------------
                                                  Nameplate
   Generating Station      Location              Capacity (1)
   ----------------------- ------------------- -----------------
                                                 (Kilowatts)
   Fossil Steam
   Gadsden                 Gadsden, AL              120,000
   Gorgas                  Jasper, AL             1,221,250
   Barry                   Mobile, AL             1,525,000
   Chickasaw               Chickasaw, AL             40,000
   Greene County           Demopolis, AL            300,000 (2)
   Gaston Unit 5           Wilsonville, AL          880,000
   Miller                  Birmingham, AL         2,532,288 (3)
                                                  ---------
   ALABAMA Total                                  6,618,538
                                                  ---------

   Arkwright               Macon, GA                160,000
   Atkinson                Atlanta, GA              180,000
   Bowen                   Cartersville, GA       3,160,000
   Branch                  Milledgeville, GA      1,539,700
   Hammond                 Rome, GA                 800,000
   McDonough               Atlanta, GA              490,000
   McManus                 Brunswick, GA            115,000
   Mitchell                Albany, GA               170,000
   Scherer                 Macon, GA                750,924 (4)
   Wansley                 Carrollton, GA           925,550 (5)
   Yates                   Newnan, GA             1,250,000
                                                  ---------
   GEORGIA Total                                  9,541,174
                                                  ---------

   Crist                   Pensacola, FL          1,045,000
   Lansing Smith           Panama City, FL          305,000
   Scholz                  Chattahoochee, FL         80,000
   Daniel                  Pascagoula, MS           500,000 (6)
   Scherer Unit 3          Macon, GA                204,500 (4)
                                                -----------
   GULF Total                                     2,134,500
                                                  ---------

   Eaton                   Hattiesburg, MS           67,500
   Sweatt                  Meridian, MS              80,000
   Watson                  Gulfport, MS           1,012,000
   Daniel                  Pascagoula, MS           500,000 (6)
   Greene County           Demopolis, AL            200,000 (2)
                                                -----------
   MISSISSIPPI Total                              1,859,500
                                                -----------

   --------------------------------------------------------------


                                                       Nameplate
   Generating Station   Location                       Capacity
   -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     (Kilowatts)

   McIntosh             Effingham County, GA           163,117
   Kraft                Port Wentworth, GA             281,136
   Riverside            Savannah, GA                   102,278
                                                   -----------
   SAVANNAH Total                                      546,531
                                                   -----------

   Gaston Units 1-4     Wilsonville, AL
     (SEGCO)                                         1,000,000 (7)
                                                   -----------
   Total Fossil Steam                               21,700,243
                                                   -----------

   Nuclear Steam
   Farley               Dothan, AL
     (ALABAMA)                                       1,720,000
                                                   -----------
   Hatch                Baxley, GA                     840,250 (8)
   Vogtle               Augusta, GA                  1,060,240 (9)
                                                   -----------
   GEORGIA Total                                     1,900,490
                                                    ----------
   Total Nuclear Steam                               3,620,490
                                                   -----------

   Combustion Turbines
   Greene County        Demopolis, AL
     (ALABAMA)                                         720,000
                                                   -----------
   Arkwright            Macon, GA                       30,580
   Atkinson             Atlanta, GA                     78,720
   Bowen                Cartersville, GA                39,400
   McDonough            Atlanta, GA                     78,800
   McIntosh
     Units 1,2,3,4,7,8  Effingham County, GA           480,000
   McManus              Brunswick, GA                  481,700
   Mitchell             Albany, GA                     118,200
   Robins               Warner Robins, GA              160,000
   Wilson               Augusta, GA                    354,100
   Wansley              Carrollton, GA                  26,322 (5)
                                                   -----------
   GEORGIA Total                                     1,847,822
                                                     ---------

   Lansing Smith
     Unit A (GULF)      Panama City, FL                 39,400

   Chevron Cogenerating
     Station            Pascagoula, MS                 147,292 (10)
   Sweatt               Meridian, MS                    39,400
   Watson               Gulfport, MS                    39,360
                                                     ---------
   MISSISSIPPI Total                                    226,052
                                                     ----------

   Boulevard            Savannah, GA                    59,100
   Kraft                Port Wentworth, GA              22,000
   McIntosh
     Units 5&6          Effingham County, GA           160,000
   SAVANNAH Total                                      241,100

   ----------------------------------------------- -----------------

                                      I-19


   ------------------------- -------------------- -----------------
                                                    Nameplate
   Generating Station        Location                 Capacity
   ------------------------- -------------------- -----------------
                                                    (Kilowatts)

   Gaston (SEGCO)            Wilsonville, AL           19,680 (7)
                                                    ---------
   Total Combustion Turbines                        3,094,054
                                                    ---------
   Hydroelectric Facilities
   Weiss                     Leesburg, AL              87,750
   Henry                     Ohatchee, AL              72,900
   Logan Martin              Vincent, AL              128,250
   Lay                       Clanton, AL              177,000
   Mitchell                  Verbena, AL              170,000
   Jordan                    Wetumpka, AL             100,000
   Bouldin                   Wetumpka, AL             225,000
   Harris                    Wedowee, AL              135,000
   Martin                    Dadeville, AL            154,200
   Yates                     Tallassee, AL             32,000
   Thurlow                   Tallassee, AL             58,000
   Lewis Smith               Jasper, AL               157,500
   Bankhead                  Holt, AL                  45,125
   Holt                      Holt, AL                  40,000
                                                  -----------
   ALABAMA Total                                    1,582,725
                                                   ----------

   Barnett Shoals
     (Leased)                Athens, GA                 2,800
   Bartletts Ferry           Columbus, GA             173,000
   Goat Rock                 Columbus, GA              26,000
   Lloyd Shoals              Jackson, GA               14,400
   Morgan Falls              Atlanta, GA               16,800
   North Highlands           Columbus, GA              29,600
   Oliver Dam                Columbus, GA              60,000
   Rocky Mountain            Rome, GA                 215,256 (11)
   Sinclair Dam              Milledgeville, GA         45,000
   Tallulah Falls            Clayton, GA               72,000
   Terrora                   Clayton, GA               16,000
   Tugalo                    Clayton, GA               45,000
   Wallace Dam               Eatonton, GA             321,300
   Yonah                     Toccoa, GA                22,500
   6 Other Plants                                      18,080
                                                  -----------
   GEORGIA Total                                    1,077,736
                                                   ----------
   Total Hydroelectric Facilities                   2,660,461
                                                  -----------

   Total Generating Capacity                       31,075,248

   ---------------------------------------------- -----------------

Notes:
    (1)  For additional information regarding facilities jointly-owned with 
         non-affiliated parties, see Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned 
          Facilities" herein.
    (2)  Owned by ALABAMA and MISSISSIPPI as
         tenants in common in the proportions of 60% and 40%, respectively.
    (3)  Excludes the capacity owned by AEC.
    (4)  Capacity shown for GEORGIA is 8.4% of Units 1 and 2 and 75% of Unit 3.
         Capacity shown for GULF is 25% of Unit 3.
    (5)  Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (53.5%) of total plant capacity.
    (6)  Represents 50% of the plant which is owned as tenants in common by 
         GULF and MISSISSIPPI.
    (7)  SEGCO is jointly-owned by ALABAMA and GEORGIA.  (See Item 1 - BUSINESS
         herein.)
    (8)  Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (50.1%) of total plant capacity.
    (9)  Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (45.7%) of total plant capacity.
   (10)  Generation is dedicated to a single industrial customer.
   (11)  Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (25.4%) of total plant capacity.  
         OPC operates the plant.

    Except as discussed below under "Titles to Property," the principal plants
and other important units of the operating affiliates and SEGCO are owned in 
fee by the respective companies. It is the opinion of management of each such
company that its operating properties are adequately maintained and are
substantially in good operating condition.

    MISSISSIPPI owns a 79-mile length of 500-kilovolt transmission line which is
leased to Gulf States. The line, completed in 1984, extends from Plant Daniel to
the Louisiana state line. Gulf States is paying a use fee over a forty-year
period covering all expenses and the amortization of the original $57 million
cost of the line. At December 31, 1996, the unamortized portion of this cost was
$39 million.

    The all-time maximum demand on the operating affiliates and SEGCO was 
27,419,700 kilowatts and occurred in August 1995. This amount excludes demand 
served by capacity retained by MEAG and Dalton and excludes demand associated
with power purchased from OPC and SEPA by its preference customers. At that 
time, 29,596,100 kilowatts were supplied by SOUTHERN system generation and
2,176,400 kilowatts (net) were sold to other parties through net purchased and
interchanged power.  The reserve margin for the operating affiliates and SEGCO
at that time was 9.4%. For additional information on peak demands, reference is
made to Item 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA herein.
 

                                     I-20



    ALABAMA and GEORGIA will incur significant costs in decommissioning their
nuclear units at the end of their useful lives. (See Item 1 - BUSINESS
"Regulation - Atomic Energy Act of 1954" and Note 1 to SOUTHERN's, ALABAMA's and
GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein.)


Other Electric Generation Facilities

Through special purpose subsidiaries, SOUTHERN owns interests in or operates
independent power production facilities and foreign utility companies. The
generating capacity of these utilities (or facilities) at December 31, 1996, was
as follows:





                                      I-21



Jointly-Owned Facilities

ALABAMA and GEORGIA have sold and GEORGIA has purchased undivided interests in
certain generating plants and other related facilities to or from non-affiliated
parties. The percentages of ownership resulting from these transactions are as
follows:



    ALABAMA and GEORGIA have contracted to operate and maintain the respective
units in which each has an interest (other than Rocky Mountain and Intercession
City, as described below) as agent for the joint owners.

    In connection with the joint ownership arrangements for Plant Vogtle,
GEORGIA made commitments to purchase declining fractions of OPC's and MEAG's
capacity and energy from this plant. The declining commitments were in effect
during periods of up to seven years following commercial operation and ended in
1996. The commitments regarding a portion of a 5 percent interest in Plant
Vogtle owned by MEAG are in effect until the later of retirement of the plant or
the latest stated maturity date of MEAG's bonds issued to finance such ownership
interest. The payments for capacity are required whether any capacity is
available. The energy cost is a function of each unit's variable operating
costs. Except for the portion of the capacity payments related to the 1987 and
1990 write-offs of Plant Vogtle costs, the cost of such capacity and energy is
included in purchased power from non-affiliates in GEORGIA's Statements of
Income in Item 8 herein.

    In December 1988, GEORGIA and OPC entered into a joint ownership agreement
for the Rocky Mountain plant under which GEORGIA agreed to retain its present
investment in the project and OPC agreed to finance, complete and operate the
facility.  In 1995, the plant went into commercial operation.
GEORGIA's net investment in the plant is approximately $175 million, and
GEORGIA's ownership is 25.4 percent. Reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's
and GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein for additional information
regarding the Rocky Mountain plant.

    In 1994, GEORGIA and FPC entered into a joint ownership agreement regarding
the Intercession City combustion turbine unit. The unit began commercial
operation in January 1997, and is operated by FPC. GEORGIA owns a one-third
interest in the 150-megawatt unit, with use of 100% of the capacity from June
through September. FPC has the capacity the remainder of the year. GEORGIA's
investment in the unit is approximately $13 million.

Sale of Property

Reference is made to Note 6 to GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein
for information regarding the sale completed in 1995 of GEORGIA's remaining
ownership interest in Plant Scherer Unit 4.

                                      I-22



Titles to Property

The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's interests in the principal plants (other
than certain pollution control facilities, one small hydroelectric generating
station leased by GEORGIA and the land on which five combustion turbine
generators of MISSISSIPPI are located, which is held by easement) and other
important units of the respective companies are owned in fee by such companies,
subject only to the liens of applicable mortgage indentures (except for SEGCO)
and to excepted encumbrances as defined therein. The operating affiliates own
the fee interests in certain of their principal plants as tenants in common.
(See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.) Properties such
as electric transmission and distribution lines and steam heating mains are
constructed principally on rights-of-way which are maintained under franchise or
are held by easement only. A substantial portion of lands submerged by
reservoirs is held under flood right easements. In substantially all of its coal
reserve lands, SEGCO owns or will own the coal only, with adequate rights for
the mining and removal thereof.

Property Additions and Retirements

During the period from January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1996, the operating
affiliates, SEGCO, SCS, Southern Nuclear, Southern Communications and Southern
Energy recorded gross property additions and retirements as follows:

   ----------------------------------------------------------
                           Gross Property
                               Additions        Retirements
                           ---------------      -------------
                                     (in millions)
   ALABAMA (1)                   $2,318            $   383
   GEORGIA (2)                    2,730              1,633
   GULF                             347                130
   MISSISSIPPI                      441                 86
   SAVANNAH                         189                 16
   SEGCO                             60                  9
   SCS                              108                122
   Southern Nuclear                   7                  5
   Southern
      Communications                194                  -
   Southern Energy                  318                 22
   ----------------------------------------------------------
   SOUTHERN system               $6,712             $2,406
   ==========================================================

Notes:
(1) Includes approximately $62 million attributable to sale of 8.2% interest in
Plant Miller Units 1 and 2 to AEC in 1992. 
(2) Includes approximately $446 million attributable to 1992 through 1996 
sales of Plant Scherer Unit 4 to FP&L and JEA.


                                      I-23




Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

(1)    Stepak v. certain SOUTHERN officials
       (U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia)

       Reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's financial statements in Item 8
       herein under the caption "Stockholder Suit Concluded."

(2)    SOUTHERN and Subsidiaries v. Commissioner of the IRS
       (U.S. Tax Court)

       In June 1994, a tax deficiency notice was received from the IRS for the
       years 1984 through 1987 with regard to the tax accounting by GEORGIA for
       the sale in 1984 of an interest in Plant Vogtle and related capacity and
       energy buyback commitments. The potential tax deficiency and interest
       arising from this issue currently amount to approximately $25 million and
       $32 million, respectively. The tax deficiency relates to a timing issue
       as to when taxes are paid; therefore, only the interest portion could
       affect future income. Management believes that the IRS position is
       incorrect, and GEORGIA has filed a petition with the U.S. Tax Court
       challenging the IRS's position. In order to minimize additional interest
       charges should the IRS's position prevail, GEORGIA made a payment to the
       IRS related to the potential tax deficiency in September 1994. In
       conjunction with this matter, SOUTHERN has filed certain refund claims
       related to the years 1984 through 1987. SOUTHERN and the IRS have entered
       into negotiations on all issues, the outcome of which is currently
       uncertain.

(3)    Frost v. ALABAMA
       (Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama)

       Reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and ALABAMA's financial
       statements in Item 8 herein under the captions "Alabama Power Appliance
       Warranty Litigation" and "Appliance Warranty Litigation", respectively.

(4)    GEORGIA has been designated as a potentially responsible party under the
       Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act with
       respect to a site in Brunswick, Georgia.

       Reference is made to Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and GEORGIA's financial
       statements in Item 8 herein under the captions "Georgia Power Potentially
       Responsible Party Status" and "Certain Environmental Contingencies,"
       respectively.

    See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Construction Programs," "Fuel Supply," "Regulation
- - Federal Power Act" and "Rate Matters" as well as Note 3 to each registrant's
financial statements in Item 8 herein for a description of certain other
administrative and legal proceedings discussed therein.

    Additionally, each of the operating affiliates, Southern Energy, SCS,
Southern Nuclear, Southern Development and Southern Communications are, in the
normal course of business, engaged in litigation or administrative proceedings
that include, but are not limited to, acquisition of property, injuries and
damages claims, and complaints by present and former employees.

Item 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A
           VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      None.

                                      I-24



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF SOUTHERN

(Identification of executive officers of SOUTHERN is inserted in Part I in
accordance with Regulation S-K, Item 401(b), Instruction 3.) The ages of the
officers set forth below are as of December 31, 1996.


A. W. Dahlberg
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 56
Elected in 1985; President and Chief Executive
Officer of GEORGIA from 1988 through 1993. He was elected President of SOUTHERN
effective January 1994. He was elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
effective March 1995.

Paul J. DeNicola
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 48
Elected in 1989; Executive Vice President of SOUTHERN since 1991. Elected
President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS effective January 1994. He
previously served as Executive Vice President of SCS from 1991 to 1993.

H. Allen Franklin
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 52
Elected in 1988; President and Chief Executive Officer
of SCS from 1988 through 1993 and, beginning 1991, Executive Vice President of
SOUTHERN. He was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of GEORGIA
effective January 1994.

Elmer B. Harris
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 57
Elected in 1989; President and Chief Executive Officer
of ALABAMA since 1989 and, beginning 1991, Executive Vice President of SOUTHERN.

David M. Ratcliffe
Senior Vice President
Age 48
Elected in 1995; President and Chief Executive Officer of MISSISSIPPI from 1991
to 1995. He also serves as Executive Vice President of SCS beginning in 1995.

W. L. Westbrook
Financial Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Age 57
Elected in 1986; responsible primarily for all aspects of financing for
SOUTHERN. He has served as Executive Vice President of SCS since 1986.

Thomas G. Boren
Vice President
Age 47
Elected in 1995; President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Energy since
1992. He previously served as Senior Vice President of GEORGIA from 1989 to
1992.

Bill M. Guthrie
Vice President
Age 63
Elected in 1991; serves as Chief Production Officer for the SOUTHERN system.
Senior Executive Vice President of SCS effective January 1994 and Executive Vice
President of ALABAMA since 1988. He also serves as Executive Vice President of
GEORGIA and Vice President of GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH.

W. G. Hairston, III
Age 52
President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Nuclear since 1993. He has
also served as Executive Vice President of GEORGIA since 1989.

     Each of the above is currently an officer of SOUTHERN, serving a term
running from the last annual meeting of the directors (May 22, 1996) for one
year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified.


                                      I-25


                                     PART II

Item 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      (a)  The common stock of SOUTHERN is listed and traded on the New York
           Stock Exchange. The stock is also traded on regional exchanges across
           the United States. High and low stock prices, per the New York Stock
           Exchange Composite Tape during each quarter for the past two years
           were as follows:

             -----------------------------------------------------
                                       High                 Low
                                    -----------           --------
             First Quarter            $25-7/8            $22-3/8
             Second Quarter            24-5/8             21-1/4
             Third Quarter             24-5/8             21-3/4
             Fourth Quarter            23-1/8             21-1/8

             First Quarter            $21-1/2            $19-3/8
             Second Quarter            22-7/8             20-1/8
             Third Quarter             24                 21-1/8
             Fourth Quarter            25                 22-3/4
             -----------------------------------------------------


           There is no market for the other registrants' common stock, all of
           which is owned by SOUTHERN. On February 28, 1997, the closing price
           of SOUTHERN's common stock was $21-3/4.

      (b)  Number of SOUTHERN's common stockholders at December 31, 1996:
                                      215,246

           Each of the other registrants have one common stockholder, SOUTHERN.


      (c)  Dividends on each registrant's common stock are payable at the
           discretion of their respective board of directors. The dividends on
           common stock paid and/or declared by SOUTHERN and the operating
           affiliates to their stockholder(s) for the past two years were as
           follows: (in thousands)

             ----------------------------------------------------
             Registrant        Quarter       1996          1995
             ----------------------------------------------------

             SOUTHERN          First       $211,081     $201,866
                               Second       211,272      203,060
                               Third        212,200      203,061
                               Fourth       212,201      203,178

             ALABAMA           First         76,000       71,900
                               Second        76,400       69,500
                               Third         76,400       69,300
                               Fourth       118,700       74,300

             GEORGIA           First        121,500      113,900
                               Second       122,100      110,200
                               Third        122,100      109,700
                               Fourth       109,800      117,700

             GULF              First         12,300       11,700
                               Second        12,400       11,300
                               Third         12,400       11,300
                               Fourth        21,200       12,100

             MISSISSIPPI       First         10,600        9,900
                               Second        10,700        9,600
                               Third         10,600        9,600
                               Fourth        12,000       10,300

             SAVANNAH          First          4,800        4,400
                               Second         4,800        4,300
                               Third          4,800        4,300
                               Fourth         5,200        4,600
             ----------------------------------------------------

    The dividend paid per share by SOUTHERN was 30.5(cent) for each quarter of
1995 and 31.5(cent) for each quarter of 1996. The dividend paid on SOUTHERN's
common stock for the first quarter of 1997 was raised to 32.5(cent) per share.

                                      II-1




    The amount of dividends on their common stock that may be paid by the
subsidiary registrants is restricted in accordance with their respective first
mortgage bond indenture and charter. The amounts of earnings retained in the
business and the amounts restricted against the payment of cash dividends on
common stock at December 31, 1996, were as follows:

   ----------------------------------------------------------
                          Retained            Restricted
                          Earnings              Amount
                      ------------------     --------------
                                  (in millions)

   ALABAMA                $1,185                $   796
   GEORGIA                 1,675                    897
   GULF                      179                    127
   MISSISSIPPI               166                    118
   SAVANNAH                  109                     68
   Consolidated            3,764                  2,008
- --------------------------------------------------------

Item 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SOUTHERN.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Consolidated Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-37
through II-52.


ALABAMA.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages
II-80 through II-93.

GEORGIA.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages
II-126 through II-140.

GULF.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected Financial
and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-168 through
II-181.


MISSISSIPPI.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages
II-208 through II-221.


SAVANNAH.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages
II-243 through II-255.



Item 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
           FINANCIAL CONDITION


SOUTHERN. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-8 through II-14.

ALABAMA. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-56 through II-61.

GEORGIA. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-97 through II-103.

GULF. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-144 through II-150.

MISSISSIPPI. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-185 through II-191.

SAVANNAH. Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-225 through II-229.


                                      II-2





                                      II-4












                              THE SOUTHERN COMPANY
                            AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                               FINANCIAL SECTION



                                      II-5





MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

The management of Southern Company has prepared -- and is responsible for -- the
consolidated financial statements and related information included in this
report. These statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include
amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of management.
Financial information throughout this annual report is consistent with the
financial statements.

    The company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the company's internal audit staff. The company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of five directors
who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
reporting and control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with
management, the internal auditors, and the independent public accountants to
ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls, and financial reporting matters. The internal
auditors and independent public accountants have access to the members of the
audit committee at any time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position, results of operations,
and cash flows of Southern Company and its subsidiary companies in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ A. W. Dahlberg
A. W. Dahlberg
Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ W. L. Westbrook
W. L. Westbrook
Financial Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
and Treasurer

February 12, 1997



                                       II-6


  
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and to the Stockholders of Southern Company:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated
statements of capitalization of Southern Company (a Delaware corporation) and
subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related
consolidated statements of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements (pages II-15 through
II-36) referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Southern Company and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1996 
and 1995, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.


/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997


                                       II-7





MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings and Dividends

Southern Company's 1996 financial results exceeded the strong performance
recorded in 1995. The traditional core business of selling electricity in the
Southeast remained strong, while non-traditional business results reflected a
full year of South Western Electricity's (SWEB) operations. The acquisition of
SWEB in late 1995 by Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy) made a significant
positive impact on non-traditional earnings.  Net income of over $1.1 billion
and earnings per share of $1.68 for 1996 both established record highs. Net 
income increased $24 million compared with the amount reported for 1995.
Continued cost controls, steady demand for electricity, and growth in the
non-traditional business were the dominant forces that favorably affected
1996 earnings.

   Costs related to work force reduction programs decreased earnings by $53
million or 8 cents per share and $17 million or 2 cents per share in 1996 and
1995, respectively. These costs are expected to be recovered through future
savings in approximately two years following each program's implementation.

   In 1995, earnings were $1.1 billion or $1.66 per share -- up 14 cents from
the per share amount reported in 1994. Earnings in 1995 were affected by a 
reduction in costs related to work force reduction programs, and much hotter
temperatures when compared with 1994 results.

   Dividends paid on common stock during 1996 were $1.26 per share or 31 1/2
cents per quarter. During 1995 and 1994, dividends paid per share were $1.22 and
$1.18, respectively. In January 1997, the Southern Company board of directors
raised the quarterly dividend to 32 1/2 cents per share or an annual rate of
$1.30 per share.

Acquisitions

Southern Energy owns and manages international and domestic non-traditional
electric power production and delivery facilities for Southern Company. Southern
Energy's acquisition of Consolidated Electric Power Asia (CEPA) closed in
January 1997, and is not included in Southern Company's 1996 results. Southern
Energy did acquire several businesses in late 1995 and 1994. These businesses
have been included in the consolidated financial statements since the date of
acquisition and are not reflected in prior periods. Therefore, changes in
revenues and expenses for 1996 and for 1995 reflect significant amounts related
to acquisitions, which were not fully reflected in each year being compared. To
facilitate discussing the results of operations, Southern Energy's variances are
shown separately and are predominantly acquisition related.

Revenues

Operating revenues increased in 1996 and 1995 as a result of the following
factors:

                                     Increase (Decrease)
                                      From Prior Year
                                  ---------------------------------
                                     1996        1995      1994
                                  ----------------------------------
    Retail --                             (in millions)
       Change in base rates        $  (18)       $  -       $  3
       Sales growth                   142         177        153
       Weather                        (64)        143       (177)
      Fuel cost recovery and
          other                         2         134       (107)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total retail                       62         454       (128)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Sales for resale --
       Within service area             10          39        (87)
       Outside service area            14         (90)      (108)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total sales for resale             24         (51)      (195)
    Southern Energy                 1,040         458        131
    Other operating revenues           52          22          -
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating revenues       $1,178        $883       $192)
    ===============================================================
    Percent change                   12.8%       10.6%      (2.3)%
    ---------------------------------------------------------------

    Retail revenues of $7.7 billion in 1996 increased 0.8 percent from last
year, compared with an increase of 6.4 percent in 1995. Under fuel cost recovery
provisions, fuel revenues generally equal fuel expense -- including the fuel
component of purchased energy -- and do not affect net income.

    Sales for resale revenues within the service area were $409 million in 1996,
up 2.5 percent from the prior year. Revenues from sales for resale within the
service area were $399 million in 1995, up 11 percent from the prior year. This
increase in 1995 resulted primarily from the prolonged hot summer weather, which
increased the demand for electricity.


                                       II-8

 

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report


    Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area under long-term
contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity revenues reflect
the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the contracts.
Energy is generally sold at variable cost.

                        1996          1995          1994
                        ----------------------------------
                                  (in millions)
   Capacity             $217          $237          $276
   Energy                176           151           176
   -------------------------------------------------------
   Total                $393          $388          $452
   =======================================================

    Capacity revenues decreased in 1996 because the amount of capacity under
contract declined slightly in 1996 and by 100 megawatts in 1995. Additional
declines in capacity are not scheduled until after 1999.

    Changes in traditional core business revenues are influenced heavily by the
amount of energy sold each year. Kilowatt-hour sales for 1996 and the percent
change by year were as follows:


 (billions of  
  kilowatt-hours)           Amount            Percent Change
                        -------------  ----------------------------
                               1996       1996     1995     1994
                        -------------  ----------------------------
Residential                    40.1        2.5%     9.2%    (2.6)%
Commercial                     38.0        5.7      5.5      3.8
Industrial                     52.8        2.2      2.7      3.2
Other                           0.9        5.7      2.1      3.8
                        -------------
Total retail                  131.8        3.3      5.4      1.6
Sales for resale --
  Within service area          10.9       15.4     16.2    (38.5)
  Outside service area         10.8       17.9    (15.1)   (13.5)
                        -------------
Total                         153.5        5.0      4.4     (3.4)
===================================================================

    The rate of increase in 1996 retail energy sales continued to be strong. The
number of customers served increased by nearly 71,000 during the year.
Residential energy sales experienced only moderate gains as a result of milder
summer weather in 1996, compared with the extremely hot summer of 1995.
Commercial and industrial sales continue to show slight gains in excess of the
national average. This reflects the strength of business and economic conditions
in Southern Company's traditional service area. Energy sales to retail customers
are projected to increase at an average annual rate of 2.1 percent during the
period 1997 through 2007.

    Energy sales for resale outside the service area are predominantly unit
power sales under long-term contracts to Florida utilities. Economy sales and
amounts sold under short-term contracts are also sold for resale outside the
service area. Sales to customers outside the service area increased in 1996 and
declined in 1995 when compared with the prior year. However, these fluctuations
in energy sales have minimal effect on earnings because Southern Company is paid
for dedicating specific amounts of its generating capacity to these utilities
outside the service area.

Expenses

Total operating expenses of $8.5 billion for 1996 increased $1.2 billion
compared with the prior year. Traditional core business expenses increased $240
million. Southern Energy's expenses increased $970 million. The large increase
for Southern Energy resulted primarily from SWEB, which was acquired in late
1995. The costs to produce and deliver electricity for the traditional core
business in 1996 increased by $79 million to meet higher energy demands. Also,
costs related to work force reduction programs increased expenses by $58
million. Depreciation expenses and property taxes increased by $50 million as a
result of additional utility plant being placed into service. The amortization
of deferred expenses related to Plant Vogtle increased by $13 million in 1996
when compared with the prior year.

    In 1995, operating expenses of $7.3 billion increased 11 percent compared
with 1994. Traditional core business expenses increased $322 million. Southern
Energy's expenses increased $390 million. Total production costs for the core
business were up $120 million. Depreciation expense and taxes other than income
taxes increased $78 million. Also, the amortization of deferred Plant Vogtle
expenses increased $49 million compared with the amount in 1994.

    Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for Southern Company. The
mix of fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by


                                       II-9

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

system load, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of hydro and
nuclear generating units. The amount and sources of generation and the average
cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour generated -- within the core business service
area -- were as follows:


                                      1996      1995      1994
                                   ----------------------------
Total generation
   (billions of kilowatt-hours)        156       147       142
Sources of generation
   (percent) --
     Coal                               77        77        75
     Nuclear                            17        17        19
     Hydro                               4         4         5
     Oil and gas                         2         2         1
Average cost of fuel per net
   kilowatt-hour generated
      (cents) --
       Coal                           1.65      1.73      1.80
       Nuclear                        0.52      0.56      0.56
       Oil and gas                    5.20      3.37      3.99
Total                                 1.48      1.53      1.56
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

   Fuel and purchased power costs of $3.3 billion in 1996 increased $731 million
compared with 1995. Traditional core business increased $49 million and Southern
Energy increased $682 million because of the acquisition of SWEB in late 1995.
The traditional core business's customer demand for electricity rose by 7.9
billion kilowatt-hours more than in 1995. The additional cost to meet the demand
was offset slightly by a lower average cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour
generated. Fuel and purchased power expenses of $2.6 billion in 1995 increased
$282 million compared with the prior year. Traditional core business accounted
for $73 million of the increase because of higher energy sales.

   For 1996, total income taxes decreased $12 million compared with the prior
year. Traditional core business income taxes decreased $47 million, and Southern
Energy increased $35 million. The decrease was attributable to less taxable
income from core business operations. For 1995, income taxes rose $84 million
above the amount reported for 1994. Traditional core business increased $65
million and Southern Energy accounted for the remainder.

    Total gross interest charges and preferred stock dividends increased $19
million from amounts reported in the previous year. These costs for core
business continued to decline by $71 million, but Southern Energy's interest
charges increased. The decline in costs for core business was attributable to
lower interest rates and continued refinancing activities in 1996. In 1995,
these costs for core business decreased $12 million. As a result of favorable
market conditions, $574 million in 1996, $1.1 billion in 1995, and $1.0 billion
in 1994 of senior securities were issued for the primary purpose of retiring
higher-cost securities.

Effects of Inflation

Southern Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are
based on the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an
economic loss because the company is recovering its costs of investments in
dollars that have less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been
relatively low in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on
Southern Company because of the large investment in long-lived utility plant.
Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize this economic
loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities
with fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any
recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of
return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from energy sales growth to a less regulated more
competitive environment, with non-traditional business becoming more
significant.

   Work force reduction programs have reduced earnings by $53 million, $17
million, and $61 million for the years 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. These
actions will assist in efforts to control growth in future operating expenses.

   Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
which are subject to a number of factors. Traditionally, these factors have
included weather, competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities,
energy conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the
rate of economic growth in the company's service area. However, the Energy
Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) is having a dramatic effect on the future of the
electric utility industry. The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency,
alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric utilities. Southern
Company is positioning its business to meet the challenge of this major change


                                       II-10

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

in the traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy Act allows
independent power producers (IPPs) to access a utility's transmission network in
order to sell electricity to other utilities. This enhances the incentive for
IPPs to build cogeneration plants for a utility's large industrial and
commercial customers and sell energy generation to other utilities. Also,
electricity sales for resale rates are being driven down by wholesale
transmission access and numerous potential new energy suppliers, including power
marketers and brokers. Southern Company is aggressively working to maintain and
expand its share of wholesale sales in the Southeastern power markets.

     Various federal and state initiatives designed to promote wholesale 
and retail competition, among other things, include proposals that would allow 
customers to choose their electricity provider.  As the initiatives materialize,
the structure of the utility industry could radically change.  Certain
initiatives could result in a change in the ownership and/or operation of 
generation and transmission facilities.  Numerous issues must be resolved,
including significant ones relating to transmission pricing and recovery of
stranded investments.  Being a low-cost producer could provide significant
opportunities to increase market share and profitability in markets that evolve
with changing regulation.  Unless Southern Company remains a low-cost producer
and provides quality service, the company's retail energy sales growth could be
limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

    The Energy Act amended the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935
(PUHCA). The amendment allows holding companies to form exempt wholesale
generators and foreign utility companies to sell power largely free of
regulation under PUHCA. These entities are able to sell power to affiliates --
under certain restrictions -- and to own and operate power generating facilities
in other domestic and international markets. To take advantage of existing and
evolving opportunities, Southern Energy-- founded in 1981 -- is focusing on
international and domestic cogeneration, the independent power market, and the
privatization of generating and distribution facilities in the international
market. As the marketplace evolves, Southern Energy is positioning the company
to become a major competitor for providing energy-related services, including
energy trading and marketing. Also, Southern Energy is expanding the business
through acquisitions. In late 1995, SWEB was acquired for approximately $1.8
billion. In July 1996, a 25 percent interest in SWEB was sold. The acquisition
of an 80 percent interest in CEPA for a total net investment of some $2.1
billion was completed in early 1997.  For additional information on these
acquisitions, see Note 14 to the financial statements.

    The CEPA acquisition is expected to be slightly dilutive in the near term.
However, Southern Energy's investments should increase the opportunities for
long-term future earnings growth. At December 31, 1996, Southern Energy's total
assets amounted to $4.9 billion, and with the inclusion of CEPA assets will be
nearly $10 billion.

    Rates to retail customers served by the system operating companies are
regulated by the respective state public service commissions in Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi. Rates for Alabama Power and Mississippi Power
are adjusted periodically within certain limitations based on earned retail rate
of return compared with an allowed return. See Note 3 to the financial
statements for information about other retail and wholesale regulatory matters.

   The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has questioned certain of
the current accounting practices of the electric utility industry -- including
Southern Company's -- regarding the recognition, measurement, and classification
of decommissioning costs for nuclear generating facilities in the financial
statements. In response to these questions, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) has decided to review the accounting for liabilities related to
closure and removal of long-lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning. If
the FASB issues new accounting rules, the estimated costs of closing and
removing Southern Company's nuclear and other facilities may be required to be
recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Also, the annual
provisions for such costs could change. Because of the company's current ability
to recover closure and removal costs through rates, these changes would not have
a significant adverse effect on results of operations. See Note 1 to the
financial statements under "Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning" for
additional information.

   Southern Company is involved in various matters being litigated. See Note 3
to the financial statements for information regarding material issues that could
possibly affect future earnings.

   Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air
Act) could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The Clean Air
Act and other important environmental items are discussed later under
"Environmental Matters."


                                       II-11

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

   The operating companies are subject to the provisions of FASB Statement No.
71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation. In the event that
a portion of a company's operations is no longer subject to these provisions,
the company would be required to write off related regulatory assets and
liabilities, and determine if any other assets have been impaired. See Note 1 to
the financial statements under "Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for
additional information.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

Southern Company's financial condition continues to remain strong. Earnings per
share set a record high in 1996. Net income continued to increase in 1996 and
exceeded $1.1 billion. Based on this performance, in January 1997, the Southern
Company board of directors increased the common stock dividend for the sixth
consecutive year.

    Gross property additions to utility plant were $1.2 billion. The majority of
funds needed for gross property additions since 1993 have been provided from
operating activities, principally from earnings and non-cash charges to income
such as depreciation and deferred income taxes. The Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows provide additional details.

   Southern Company uses financial derivatives on a limited basis to mitigate
business risks. At December 31, 1996, the credit and price risks for derivatives
outstanding were not material to the financial statements. See Note 1 to the
financial statements under "Financial Instruments" for additional information.

Capital Structure

Southern Company achieved a ratio of common equity to total capitalization --
including short-term debt -- of 45.1 percent in 1996, compared with 42.4 percent
in 1995, and 44.4 percent in 1994. The company's goal is to maintain the common
equity ratio generally within a range of 40 percent to 45 percent.

    During 1996, the subsidiary companies sold $85 million of first mortgage
bonds and, through public authorities, $167 million of pollution control revenue
bonds. Preferred securities of $322 million were issued in 1996. The companies
continued to reduce financing costs by retiring higher-cost bonds and preferred
stock. Retirements, including maturities, of bonds totaled $600 million during
1996, $1.3 billion during 1995, and $973 million during 1994. Retirements of
preferred stock totaled $179 million during 1996, and $1 million a year during
1995 and 1994. As a result, the composite interest rate on long-term debt
decreased from 7.6 percent at December 31, 1993, to 6.9 percent at December 31,
1996. During this same period, the composite dividend rate on preferred stock
declined from 6.4 percent to 6.2 percent.

    In 1996, Southern Company raised $171 million from the issuance of new
common stock under the company's various stock plans. At the close of 1996, the
company's common stock had a market value of 22 5/8 per share, compared with a
book value of $13.61 per share. The market-to-book value ratio was 166 percent
at the end of 1996, compared with 188 percent at year-end 1995, and 160 percent
at year-end 1994.

Capital Requirements for Construction

The construction program of Southern Company is budgeted at $1.4 billion for
1997, $1.3 billion for 1998, and $1.4 billion for 1999. The total is $4.1
billion for the three years. Actual construction costs may vary from this
estimate because of changes in such factors as: business conditions;
environmental regulations; nuclear plant regulations; load projections; the cost
and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of
capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to capital
expenditures for the operating companies will be fully recovered.

    The operating companies do not have any traditional baseload generating
plants under construction, and current energy demand forecasts do not require
any traditional baseload facilities until well into the future. Significant
construction of transmission and distribution facilities and upgrading of
generating plants will be continuing.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately $1.2
billion will be required by the end of 1999 for present sinking fund
requirements and maturities of long-term debt. Also, the subsidiaries will
continue to retire higher-cost debt and preferred stock and replace these
obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions permit.



                                       II-12

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- impacts Southern
Company. Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from
fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase I compliance
began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating units of Southern Company. As
a result of the company's compliance strategy, an additional 22 generating units
were brought into compliance with Phase I requirements. Phase II compliance is
required in 2000, and all fossil-fired generating plants will be affected.

    In 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began issuing annual
sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the allowance trading program. An
emission allowance is the authority to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a
calendar year. The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to
minimize the cost of compliance. Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to use allowances as a compliance option.

   Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
This compliance strategy resulted in unused emission allowances being banked for
later use.  Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled 
approximately $310 million.

    For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired units as required
to meet Phase II limits. Therefore, current compliance strategy could require
total Phase II estimated construction expenditures of approximately $80 million,
of which $60 million remains to be spent. However, the full impact of Phase II
compliance cannot now be determined with certainty, pending the continuing
development of a market for emission allowances, the completion of EPA
regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction technologies.

    An average increase of up to 1 percent in revenue requirements from
customers could be necessary to fully recover the cost of compliance for both
Phase I and Phase II of Title IV of the Clean Air Act. Compliance costs include
construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to low-sulfur coal, and
costs related to emission allowances.

    A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

    The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various matters including: revisions to the ambient air quality
standards for ozone and particulate matter; emission control strategies for
ozone non-attainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant
emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.

    Southern Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations
that cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various
laws and regulations, the subsidiaries could incur substantial costs to clean up
properties. The subsidiaries conduct studies to determine the extent of any
required cleanup costs and have recognized in their respective financial
statements costs to clean up known sites. These costs for Southern Company
amounted to $8 million a year for 1995 and 1994. In 1996, the company was
reimbursed $6 million for amounts previously expensed. Additional sites may
require environmental remediation for which the subsidiaries may be liable for a
portion or all required cleanup costs. See Note 3 to the financial statements
for information regarding Georgia Power's potentially responsible party status
at a site in Brunswick, Georgia.

    Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of Southern Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

    Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect Southern Company. The impact of new legislation -- if


                                       II-13

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

any -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of
applicable regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the
result of lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.

Sources of Capital

Southern Company plans to issue additional equity capital in 1997. The amount
and timing of additional equity capital to be raised in 1997 -- as well as in
subsequent years -- will be contingent on Southern Company's investment
opportunities. Equity capital can be provided from any combination of public
offerings, private placements, or the company's stock plans. Any portion of the
common stock required during 1997 for the company's stock plans that is not
provided from the issuance of new stock will be acquired on the open market in
accordance with the terms of such plans.

    The operating companies plan to obtain the funds required for construction
and other purposes from sources similar to those used in the past, which was
primarily from internal sources. However, the type and timing of any financings
- -- if needed -- will depend on market conditions and regulatory approval.

    To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, Southern Company had
approximately $445 million of cash and cash equivalents and $4.1 billion of
unused credit arrangements with banks at the beginning of 1997.

    To issue additional first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, the operating
companies must comply with certain earnings coverage requirements designated in
their mortgage indentures and corporate charters. The ability to issue
securities in the future will depend on coverages at that time. Currently, each
of the operating companies expects to have adequate coverage ratios for
anticipated requirements through at least 1999.


                                       II-14


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.


                                       II-15

 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-16

  
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report




                                       II-17

 


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-18

 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report




                                       II-19

 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION (continued)
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report


                                       II-20



NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

General

Southern Company is the parent company of five operating companies, a system
service company, Southern Communications Services (Southern Communications),
Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear Operating Company
(Southern Nuclear), The Southern Development and Investment Group (Southern
Development), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The operating
companies -- Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and
Savannah Electric -- provide electric service in four southeastern states.
Contracts among the operating companies -- dealing with jointly owned generating
facilities, interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric
power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The system service company provides,
at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and subsidiary companies.
Southern Communications provides digital wireless communications services to the
operating companies and also markets these services to the public within the
Southeast. Southern Energy designs, builds, owns, and operates power production
and delivery facilities and provides a broad range of energy related services in
the United States and international markets. Southern Nuclear provides services
to Southern Company's nuclear power plants. Southern Development develops new
business opportunities related to energy products and services.

    Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both the company and its subsidiaries are
subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The operating companies also
are subject to regulation by the FERC and their respective state regulatory
commissions. The companies follow generally accepted accounting principles and
comply with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by their respective
commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates, and the
actual results may differ from those estimates. All material intercompany items
have been eliminated in consolidation.

    The consolidated financial statements reflect investments in majority-owned
or controlled subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and other investments on an
equity basis. Certain prior years' data presented in the consolidated financial
statements have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The operating companies are subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain
Types of Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the
operating companies associated with certain costs that are expected to be
recovered from customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities
represent probable future reductions in revenues associated with amounts that
are to be credited to customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory
assets and (liabilities) reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at
December 31 relate to the following:

                                              1996         1995
                                         ------------------------
                                              (in millions)
Deferred income taxes                       $1,302       $1,386
Deferred Plant Vogtle costs                    171          308
Premium on reacquired debt                     289          295
Demand-side programs                            44           79
Department of Energy assessments                69           73
Vacation pay                                    77           74
Deferred fuel charges                           29           49
Postretirement benefits                         38           53
Work force reduction costs                      48           56
Deferred income tax credits                   (879)        (936)
Storm damage reserves                          (32)         (23)
Other, net                                     114           98
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $1,270       $1,512
=================================================================

    In the event that a portion of the operating companies' operations is no
longer subject to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the companies would be
required to write off related regulatory assets and liabilities. In addition,
the operating companies would be required to determine any impairment to other
assets, including plant, and write down the assets, if impaired, to their fair
value.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

The operating companies accrue revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the
end of each fiscal period. Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The
operating companies' electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for
fluctuations in fuel and the energy component of purchased power costs. Revenues


                                       II-21

 

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts actually
recovered in current rates.

    The operating companies have a diversified base of customers. No single
customer or industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1996,
uncollectible accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.

    Fuel expense includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear fuel and a
charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear
fuel. Total charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted to $142
million in 1996, $140 million in 1995, and $152 million in 1994. Alabama Power
and Georgia Power have contracts with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that
provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Although disposal was
scheduled to begin in 1998, the actual year this service will begin is
uncertain. Sufficient storage capacity currently is available to permit
operation into 2003 at Plant Hatch, into 2008 at Plant Vogtle, and into 2010 and
2013 at Plant Farley units 1 and 2, respectively. Activities for adding dry cast
storage capacity at Plant Hatch by as early as 1999 are in progress.

    Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the establishment in 1993 of a
Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is to be
funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants. This
assessment is being paid over a 15-year period, which began in 1993. This fund
will be used by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. The law provides that utilities will recover
these payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense. Alabama Power and
Georgia Power -- based on its ownership interests -- estimate their respective
remaining liability at December 31, 1996, under this law to be approximately $37
million and $30 million, respectively. These obligations are recorded in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.3 percent in 1996, 3.3 percent in 1995, and 3.2 percent in 1994. When property
subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course
of business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected costs
of decommissioning nuclear facilities and removal of other facilities.

    Georgia Power recorded additional depreciation of electric plant amounting 
to $24 million in 1996 and $6 million in 1995.  See Note 3 under "Georgia Power
Retail Accounting Order" for additional information.

    In 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) adopted regulations
requiring all licensees operating commercial power reactors to establish a plan
for providing, with reasonable assurance, funds for decommissioning. Alabama
Power and Georgia Power have external trust funds to comply with the NRC's
regulations. Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being
transferred into the external trust funds over periods approved by the
respective state public service commissions. The NRC's minimum external funding
requirements are based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission the
radioactive portions of a nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor.
Alabama Power and Georgia Power have filed plans with the NRC to ensure that --
over time -- the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will provide
the minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC.

    Site study cost is the estimate to decommission a specific facility as of
the site study year, and ultimate cost is the estimate to decommission a
specific facility as of retirement date. The estimated costs of decommissioning


                                       II-22

 
NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

- -- both site study costs and ultimate costs -- at December 31, 1996, for Alabama
Power's Plant Farley and Georgia Power's ownership interests in plants Hatch and
Vogtle were as follows:

                                    Plant      Plant      Plant
                                   Farley      Hatch     Vogtle
                                 --------------------------------
Site study basis (year)              1993       1994       1994

Decommissioning periods:
   Beginning year                    2017       2014       2027
   Completion year                   2029       2027       2038
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                          (in millions)
Site study costs:
   Radiated structures               $489       $294       $233
   Non-radiated structures             89         41         52
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                $578       $335       $285
=================================================================

Ultimate costs:
   Radiated structures             $1,504       $781     $1,018
   Non-radiated structures            274        111        230
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              $1,778       $892     $1,248
=================================================================


                                       Plant    Plant    Plant
                                       Farley   Hatch   Vogtle
                                     ---------------------------
                                            (in millions)

Amount expensed in 1996                 $18     $11       $9

Accumulated provisions:
   Balance in external trust
      funds                            $149    $ 79      $51
   Balance in internal reserves          47      27       13
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                  $196    $106      $64
================================================================

Significant assumptions:
   Inflation rate                       4.5%    4.4%     4.4%
   Trust earning rate                   7.0     6.0      6.0
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

    Annual provisions for nuclear decommissioning are based on an annuity method
as approved by the respective state public service commissions. All of Alabama
Power's decommissioning costs are approved for ratemaking. For Georgia Power,
only the costs to decommission the radioactive portion of the plants are
included in cost of service. Alabama Power and Georgia Power expect their
respective state public service commissions to periodically review and adjust,
if necessary, the amounts collected in rates for the anticipated cost of
decommissioning.

    The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary
from the above estimates because of changes in the assumed date of
decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions used
in making estimates.

Income Taxes

Southern Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income
taxes and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

Plant Vogtle Phase-In Plans

In 1987, 1989, and 1991, the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC) ordered
that the allowed costs of Plant Vogtle, a two-unit nuclear facility of which
Georgia Power owns 45.7 percent, be phased into rates. Each GPSC order called
for recovery of deferred costs within 10 years. Under these plans, all allowed
costs will be recovered by 1999.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The composite rates used by the operating companies to
calculate AFUDC during the years 1994 through 1996 ranged from a
before-income-tax rate of 5.1 percent to 9.8 percent. AFUDC, net of income tax,
as a percent of consolidated net income was 1.4 percent in 1996, 1.6 percent in
1995, and 2.3 percent in 1994.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances. Original
cost includes: materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions,
and other benefits; and the estimated cost of funds used during construction.
The cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is


                                       II-23


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

charged to maintenance expense. The cost of replacements of property --
exclusive of minor items of property -- is charged to utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash
investments are considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are
securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.

Financial Instruments

Southern Company engages in price risk management activities for trading and
non-trading purposes. Activities for non-trading purposes consist of
transactions that are employed to mitigate Southern Company's risk related to
interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. Gains and losses arising from
effective hedges of existing assets, liabilities, or firm commitments are
deferred and recognized when the offsetting gains and losses are recognized on
the related hedged items. At December 31, 1996, the credit risk for derivatives
outstanding was not material to the financial statements. Southern Company
regularly monitors its foreign currency exposure and ensures that hedge contract
amounts do not exceed the amount of underlying exposures. At December 31, 1996,
the status of outstanding non-trading related derivative contracts was as
follows:


                        Year Of
                      Maturity or       Notional     Unrealized
Type                  Termination        Amount      Gain (Loss)
- ----------------------------------     ---------------------------
                                            (in millions)
Interest rate
   swaps:             1999-2011              $158       $(7)
                      2001-2012        (pound)500      $(13)
Cross currency
   swaps              2001-2006        (pound)405      $(38)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
(pound) - Denotes British pound sterling.

    During 1996, Southern Energy began trading activities by offering price risk
management services related to commodities associated with the domestic energy
industry -- electricity and natural gas. Southern Energy provides these services
through a variety of financial instruments. These transactions are accounted for
using the mark-to-market method of accounting. Under this method, unrealized
gains or losses resulting from the impact of price movements are recognized as
net gains or losses in the consolidated statements of income. The market prices
used to value these transactions reflect management's best estimates considering
various factors including: closing exchange quotations, over-the-counter
quotations, liquidity of the position, time value, and volatility factors
underlying the commitments. Net trading gains and losses were insignificant to
the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 1996. Also, outstanding
contracts at December 31, 1996, were not material to the financial statements.

    South Western Electricity (SWEB)--a British distribution company owned by
Southern Energy--has contracts to mitigate its exposure to volatility in the
prices of electricity purchased through the wholesale electricity market. These
contracts are in place to hedge a portion of electricity purchases of
approximately 28 billion kilowatt-hours through the year 2008. This represents
approximately two years of electricity purchases for SWEB based on current
volumes. Accordingly, the gains or losses realized on such contracts are
deferred and recognized as electricity is purchased. It is not possible to
estimate the fair value of these contracts due to the absence of a trading
market.

    Other Southern Company financial instruments for which the carrying amount
did not equal fair value at December 31 were as follows:

                                         Carrying           Fair
                                           Amount          Value
                                       --------------------------
                                             (in millions)
Long-term debt:
    At December 31, 1996                   $7,975         $8,122
    At December 31, 1995                    8,636          8,935
Preferred securities:
    At December 31, 1996                      422            427
    At December 31, 1995                      100            114
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

    The fair values for long-term debt and preferred securities were based on
either closing market price or closing price of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory
when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.


                                       II-24



NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

2.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The system companies have defined benefit, trusteed, pension plans that cover
substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on one of the following
formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of service and a
flat-dollar benefit. Primarily, the companies use the "entry age normal method
with a frozen initial liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject
to limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the
pension trusts are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities.
FASB Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

In the United States, Southern Company provides certain medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees. Substantially all these employees may
become eligible for such benefits when they retire. Trusts are funded to the
extent deductible under federal income tax regulations or to the extent required
by the operating companies' respective regulatory commissions. Amounts funded
are primarily invested in debt and equity securities.

    FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." In October 1993, the GPSC ordered
Georgia Power to phase in the adoption of Statement No. 106 to cost of service
over a five-year period, whereby one-fifth of the additional costs was expensed
in 1993 and the remaining costs were deferred. An additional one-fifth of the
costs is being expensed each succeeding year until the costs are fully reflected
in cost of service in 1997. The costs deferred during the five-year period will
be amortized to expense over a 15-year period beginning in 1998. For the other
operating companies, the cost of postretirement benefits is reflected in rates
on a current basis.

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The following tables show actuarial results and assumptions for pension and
postretirement insurance benefits as computed under the requirements of
FASB Statement Nos. 87 and 106, respectively.  The funded status of the
plans at December 31 was as follows:


                                                    Pension
                                           -----------------------
                                               1996           1995
                                           -----------------------
                                                (in millions)
Actuarial present value of benefit obligation:
    Vested benefits                           $2,730       $2,643
    Non-vested benefits                          119           97
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                 2,849        2,740
Additional amounts related to
    projected salary increases                   775          705
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation                   3,624        3,445
Less:
    Fair value of plan assets                  5,212        4,725
    Unrecognized net gain                     (1,314)      (1,025)
    Unrecognized prior service cost              135           60
    Unrecognized transition asset               (114)        (126)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid asset recognized in the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets               $  295       $  189
==================================================================


                                        Postretirement Benefits
                                      ----------------------------
                                                1996         1995
                                      --------------- ------------
                                                (in millions)
Actuarial present value of benefit obligation:
    Retirees and dependents                     $409         $394
    Employees eligible to retire                  78           63
    Other employees                              383          392
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                   870          849
Less:
    Fair value of plan assets                    260          205
    Unrecognized net loss (gain)                  79           85
    Unrecognized prior service cost               (5)          (4)
    Unrecognized transition
       obligation                                249          292
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liability recognized in the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets                 $287         $271
===================================================================

    In 1995, the system companies announced a cost sharing program for
postretirement benefits. The program established limits on amounts the companies
will pay to provide future retiree postretirement benefits. This change reduced
the 1995 accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $186
million.


                                       II-25


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

   The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations were:

                                   1996        1995    1994
                               ---------------------------------
Discount                            7.8%        7.3%      8.0%
Annual salary increase              5.3         4.8       5.5
Long-term return on
    plan assets                     8.5         8.5       8.5
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

    An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 9.3
percent for 1996, decreasing gradually to 5.8 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation at December 31, 1996, by $77 million and the aggregate of the service
and interest cost components of the net retiree cost by $8 million.

    Components of the plans' net costs are shown below:

                                                 Pension
                                       ---------------------------
                                          1996     1995     1994
                                       ---------------------------
                                              (in millions)
Benefits earned during the year         $   99    $   79  $   77
Interest cost on projected
    benefit obligation                     267       193     160
Actual (return) loss on plan assets       (564)     (730)     75
Net amortization and deferral              152       412    (351)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension cost (income)               $  (46)   $  (46) $  (39)
==================================================================

    Of the above net pension income, $37 million in 1996, $30 million in 1995,
and $29 million in 1994 were recorded in operating expenses, and the remainder
was recorded in construction and other accounts.


                                           Postretirement Benefits
                                       ---------------------------
                                          1996    1995      1994
                                       ---------------------------
                                              (in millions)
Benefits earned during the year         $ 20      $ 28      $ 31
Interest cost on accumulated
    benefit obligation                    60        67        64
Amortization of transition
    obligation                            15        27        27
Actual (return) loss on plan
    assets                               (17)      (23)        2
Net amortization and deferral              6        12       (10)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement costs                $ 84      $111      $114
==================================================================

    Of the above net postretirement costs, $64 million in 1996, $78 million in
1995, and $77 million in 1994 were charged to operating expenses. In addition,
$3 million in 1996, $11 million in 1995, and $18 million in 1994 were deferred,
and the remainder was charged to construction and other accounts.

Work Force Reduction Programs

The system companies have incurred additional costs for work force reduction
programs. The costs related to these programs were $85 million, $42 million, and
$112 million for the years 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. In addition,
certain costs of these programs were deferred and are being amortized in
accordance with regulatory treatment. The unamortized balance of these costs was
$48 million at December 31, 1996.

3.   LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

Stockholder Suit Concluded

In April 1991, two Southern Company stockholders filed a derivative action suit
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia against certain
current and former directors and officers of Southern Company. The suit alleges
violations of the Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act
(RICO) by officers and breaches of fiduciary duty and gross negligence by all
defendants resulting from alleged fraudulent accounting for spare parts, illegal
political campaign contributions, violations of federal securities laws
involving misrepresentations and omissions in SEC filings, and concealment of
the foregoing acts. The complaint sought damages -- including treble damages
pursuant to RICO -- in an unspecified amount, which if awarded, would have been
payable to Southern Company. The court ruled the plaintiffs had failed to
present adequately their allegation that Southern Company board of directors'
refusal of an earlier demand by the plaintiffs was wrongful. In April 1994, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit reversed the dismissal and remanded
the case to the trial court, finding that allegations by the plaintiffs created
a reasonable doubt that the board validly exercised its business judgment in
refusing the earlier demand. In June 1995, for the second time, the trial court
dismissed the suit, and the plaintiffs appealed. A panel of the court of appeals
in May 1996 affirmed the trial court's dismissal. The plaintiffs' request for a
rehearing was denied. This matter is now concluded.


                                       II-26

   

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

Alabama Power Appliance Warranty Litigation

In 1996, legal actions against Alabama Power were filed in several counties in
Alabama charging Alabama Power with fraud and non-compliance with regulatory
statutes relating to the offer, sale, and financing of "extended service
contracts" in connection with the sale of electric appliances. Some of these
suits were filed as class actions, while others were filed on behalf of multiple
individual plaintiffs. The plaintiffs seek damages for an unspecified amount.
Alabama Power has offered extended service agreements to its customers since
January 1984, and approximately 175,000 extended service agreements could be
involved in these proceedings. The final outcome of these cases cannot now be
determined.

Georgia Power Potentially Responsible Party Status

In January 1995, Georgia Power and four other unrelated entities were notified
by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that they have been designated as
potentially responsible parties under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act with respect to a site in Brunswick, Georgia. As
of December 31, 1996, Georgia Power had recorded approximately $5 million in
expenses associated with the site. This represents Georgia Power's agreed upon
share of removal and remedial investigation and feasibility study costs.

    The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. However, based on
the nature and extent of Georgia Power's activities relating to the site,
management believes that the company's portion of any remaining remediation
costs should not be material to the financial statements.

Georgia Power Investment in Rocky Mountain

In its 1985 financing order, the GPSC concluded that completion of the Rocky
Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric plant in 1991 as then planned was not
economically justifiable and reasonable and withheld authorization for Georgia
Power to spend funds from approved securities issuances on that plant. In 1988,
Georgia Power and Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC) entered into a joint
ownership agreement for OPC to assume responsibility for the construction and
operation of the plant. However, full recovery of Georgia Power's costs depends
on the GPSC's treatment of the plant's costs and the disposition of the plant's
capacity output. In June 1996, the GPSC initiated a review of this plant. In the
event the GPSC does not allow full recovery of the plant costs, then the portion
not allowed may have to be written off. In 1995, the plant went into commercial
operation. At December 31, 1996, Georgia Power's net investment in the plant was
approximately $175 million.

    The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. Accordingly, no
provision for any write-down of the investment in the plant has been made.

FERC Reviews Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the operating companies' wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power, and other similar contracts.

    In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

    In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on
substantially the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a
FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to
meet its burden of proof, and therefore, no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter is pending before the FERC.

    If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all of the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings--as
well as to certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in
determining return on common equity--and if refunds were ordered, the amount of
refunds could range up to approximately $160 million at December 31, 1996.
However, management believes that rates are not excessive and that refunds are
not justified.


                                       II-27

  


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

Alabama Power Rate Adjustment Procedures

In November 1982, the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC) adopted rates
that provide for periodic adjustments based upon Alabama Power's earned return
on end-of-period retail common equity. The rates also provide for adjustments to
recognize the placing of new generating facilities in retail service. Both
increases and decreases have been placed into effect since the adoption of these
rates. The rate adjustment procedures allow a return on common equity range of
13.0 percent to 14.5 percent and limit increases or decreases in rates to 4
percent in any calendar year.

    In June 1995, the APSC issued a rate order granting Alabama Power's request
for gradual adjustments to move toward parity among customer classes. This order
also calls for a moratorium on any periodic retail rate increases (but not
decreases) until July 2001.

    In December 1995, the APSC issued an order authorizing Alabama Power to
reduce balance sheet items -- such as plant and deferred charges -- at any time
the company's actual base rate revenues exceed the budgeted revenues.

    The ratemaking procedures will remain in effect until the APSC votes to
modify or discontinue them.

Georgia Power Retail Accounting Order

In February 1996, the GPSC approved an accounting order, which will be in effect
for three years beginning January 1, 1996. Under the accounting order, Georgia
Power's earnings are evaluated against a retail return on common equity range of
10 percent to 12.5 percent. Earnings in excess of 12.5 percent will be used to
accelerate the amortization of regulatory assets or to accelerate the
depreciation of electric plant. At its option, Georgia Power may also accelerate
amortization or depreciation of assets while within the range allowed on common
equity. Georgia Power is required to absorb cost increases of approximately $29
million annually during the three-year period, including $14 million annually of
accelerated depreciation of electric plant. Under the accounting order, Georgia
Power will not file for a general base rate increase unless its projected retail
return on common equity falls below 10 percent. On July 1, 1998, Georgia Power
is required to file a general rate case. In response, the GPSC would be expected
to either continue the provisions of the accounting order or adopt new ones.

    A consumer group appealed the GPSC's decision to the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia. In 1996, the court ruled that statutory requirements
applicable to rates cases were not followed and remanded the matter to the GPSC.
Both the GPSC and Georgia Power appealed the court's decision to the Georgia
Court of Appeals. Georgia Power is continuing to record expenses in accordance
with the accounting order pending the outcome of this matter.

4.   CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

The system companies are engaged in continuous construction programs, currently
estimated to total some $1.4 billion in 1997, $1.3 billion in 1998, and $1.4
billion in 1999. The construction programs are subject to periodic review and
revision, and actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates
because of numerous factors. These factors include: changes in business
conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations;
changes in existing nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements;
increasing costs of labor, equipment, and materials; and cost of capital. At
December 31, 1996, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in
connection with the construction program. The operating companies do not have
any traditional baseload generating plants under construction. However,
significant construction will continue related to transmission and distribution
facilities and the upgrading of generating plants.

    See Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Environmental Matters" for
information on the impact of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and other
environmental matters.

5.   FINANCING, INVESTMENTS, AND COMMITMENTS

General

Southern Company plans to issue equity capital in 1997. The amount and timing of
additional equity capital to be raised in 1997 -- as well as in subsequent years
- -- will be contingent on Southern Company's investment opportunities. Equity
capital can be provided from any combination of public offerings, private
placements, or the company's stock plans.

    The operating companies' construction programs are expected to be financed
primarily from internal sources. Short-term debt is often utilized and the
amounts available are discussed below. The companies may issue additional


                                       II-28


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

long-term debt and preferred securities primarily for the purposes of debt
maturities and for redeeming higher-cost securities if market conditions permit.

Bank Credit Arrangements

At the beginning of 1997, unused credit arrangements with banks totaled $4.1
billion, of which approximately $1.7 billion expires at various times during
1997 and 1998; $1.0 billion in syndicated credit arrangements expires April 19,
2001; and the remaining $1.4 billion is under revolving credit agreements.

The revolving credit agreements are as follows:

                                   Amount of Credit
                          -------------------------------------
Company                      Total     Unused          Expires
- ------------              --------------------    -------------
                             (in millions)

Georgia Power              $    60     $   49          5-01-99
Mississippi Power               40         20         12-01-99
Savannah Electric               20         15         12-31-98
Southern Company               300        300          7-01-99
Southern Company               300        300         11-30-99
Southern Energy                520        215         11-05-99
Southern Energy                283         64          Various
Combined                       400        400          6-30-99
- ----------------------------------------------
Total                      $1,923      $1,363
==============================================

    Combined unused revolving credit agreements of $400 million expiring in 1999
are with several banks that provide Southern Company, Alabama Power, and Georgia
Power up to $100 million, $135 million, and $165 million, respectively, for
available credit to provide liquidity support for commercial paper programs.

    Most of the revolving credit agreements allow short-term borrowings to be
converted into term loans, payable in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the
first installment due at the end of the first calendar quarter after the
applicable termination date or at an earlier date at the companies' option. In
addition, these agreements require payment of commitment fees based on the
unused portions of the commitments or the maintenance of compensating balances
with the banks.

    Southern Company's $1.0 billion syndicated credit arrangement allows for
revolving loans and competitive bid loans, provided that the sum of the
aggregate amount of revolving loans outstanding plus the aggregate amount of
competitive bid loans outstanding shall not exceed the revolving loan commitment
of $1.0 billion. This agreement requires payment of commitment fees based on the
unused portion of the commitments. Southern Company also pays an agent fee in
connection with this arrangement.

    In connection with all other lines of credit, the companies have the option
of paying fees or maintaining compensating balances, which are substantially all
the cash of the companies except for daily working funds and similar items.
These balances are not legally restricted from withdrawal.

    A portion of the $4.1 billion unused credit arrangements with banks --
discussed earlier -- is allocated to provide liquidity support to the companies'
variable rate pollution control bonds. At December 31, 1996, the amount of
credit lines allocated was $829 million.

    In addition, the companies from time to time borrow under uncommitted lines
of credit with banks and in the case of Southern Company, Alabama Power, and
Georgia Power, through commercial paper programs that have the liquidity support
of committed bank credit arrangements.

Assets Subject to Lien

Each of Southern Company's subsidiaries is organized as a legal entity,
separate, and apart from Southern Company and its other subsidiaries. The
subsidiary companies' mortgages, which secure the first mortgage bonds issued by
the companies, constitute a direct first lien on substantially all of the
companies' respective fixed property and franchises. There are no agreements or
other arrangements among the subsidiary companies under which the assets of one
company have been pledged or otherwise made available to satisfy obligations of
Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the generating plants, Southern
Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of
fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
price escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments.


                                       II-29


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

Also, Southern Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the
purchase of electricity. Total estimated long-term obligations at December 31,
1996, were as follows:

                                                   Purchased
Year                                Fuel             Power
- --------                    ---------------------------------
                                    (in millions)
1997                             $ 1,908              $  553
1998                               1,674                 249
1999                               1,251                 162
2000                                 794                 167
2001                                 748                 169
2002 and thereafter                4,797               1,845
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Total commitments                $11,172              $3,145
=============================================================

Operating Leases

Southern Company has operating lease agreements with various terms and
expiration dates. These expenses totaled $23 million, $17 million, and $15
million, for 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. At December 31, 1996, estimated
minimum rental commitments for noncancelable operating leases were as follows:

Year                                            Amounts
- --------                                    ---------------
                                            (in millions)
1997                                                $ 25
1998                                                  24
1999                                                  25
2000                                                  24
2001                                                  23
2002 and thereafter                                  333
- -----------------------------------------------------------
Total minimum payments                              $454
===========================================================

6.  FACILITY SALES AND JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

In 1992, Alabama Power sold an undivided interest in units 1 and 2 of Plant
Miller and related facilities to Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc.

    Since 1975, Georgia Power has sold undivided interests in plants Vogtle,
Hatch, Scherer, and Wansley in varying amounts, together with transmission
facilities, to OPC, the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, and the city of
Dalton, Georgia. In addition, Georgia Power has joint ownership agreements with
OPC for the Rocky Mountain project and with Florida Power Corporation (FPC) for
a combustion turbine unit at Intercession City, Florida.

    At December 31, 1996, Alabama Power's and Georgia Power's ownership and
investment (exclusive of nuclear fuel) in jointly owned facilities with the
above entities were as follows:

                              Jointly Owned Facilities
                  -------------------------------------------------
                       Percent      Amount of        Accumulated
                     Ownership      Investment       Depreciation
                 ----------------   -------------------------------
Plant Vogtle                                (in millions)
  (nuclear)               45.7%          $3,299              $843
Plant Hatch
  (nuclear)               50.1              854               436
Plant Miller
  (coal)
  Units 1 and 2           91.8              714               296
Plant Scherer
  (coal)
Units 1and 2               8.4              112                42
 Plant Wansley
  (coal)                  53.5              301               134
Rocky Mountain
  (pumped storage)        25.4              202                27
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

    In 1994, Georgia Power and FPC entered into a joint ownership agreement
regarding the Intercession City combustion turbine unit. The unit went into
commercial operation in early 1997 and will be operated and maintained by FPC.
Georgia Power has an approximate interest of 33 percent in the 150-megawatt
unit, with retention of 100 percent of the capacity from June through September.
FPC has the capacity the remainder of the year. Georgia Power's investment in
the unit is $13 million.

    Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracted to operate and maintain the
jointly owned facilities -- except for the Rocky Mountain project and
Intercession City -- as agents for their respective co-owners. The companies'
proportionate share of their plant operating expenses is included in the
corresponding operating expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.


                                      II-30



7.   LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report


The operating companies have long-term contractual agreements for the sale of
capacity and energy to certain non-affiliated utilities located outside the
system's service area. These agreements -- expiring at various dates discussed
below -- are firm and pertain to capacity related to specific generating units.
Because the energy is generally sold at cost under these agreements,
profitability is primarily affected by revenues from capacity sales. The
capacity revenues have been as follows:

                             Unit       Other
   Year                      Power     Long-Term         Total
   -----                 ---------------------------------------
                                       (in millions)
    1996                     $217       $ -              $217
    1995                      237         -               237
    1994                      257        19               276


    Unit power from specific generating plants is currently being sold to
Florida Power & Light Company (FP&L), FPC, Jacksonville Electric Authority
(JEA), and the city of Tallahassee, Florida. Under these agreements,
approximately 1,600 megawatts of capacity is scheduled to be sold annually
through 1999. Thereafter, these sales will decline to some 1,500 megawatts and
remain at that approximate level -- unless reduced by FP&L, FPC, and JEA for the
periods after 1999 with a minimum of three years notice -- until the expiration
of the contracts in 2010.

8.   INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1996, the tax- related regulatory assets and liabilities were
$1.3 billion and $879 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to
tax benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable
to capitalized AFUDC. These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes
previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.

     Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:

                                           1996      1995   1994
                                      -----------------------------
                                              (in millions)
Total provision for income taxes:
Federal --
   Currently payable                       $569       $567    $598
   Deferred -- current year                 116        184      67
            -- reversal of
                  prior years               (74)      (111)    (75)
   Deferred investment tax
    credits                                   -          1       -
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            611        641     590
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
State --
   Currently payable                         82         90      86
   Deferred -- current year                  23         26      15
            -- reversal of
                  prior years                (9)       (12)    (11)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             96        104      90
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
International                                50         24       5
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       757        769     685
Less income taxes charged
   (credited) to other income                10        (36)    (26)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes charged
   to operations                           $747       $805    $711
===================================================================

     The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

                                                 1996         1995
                                            ---------- ------------
                                                (in millions)
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Accelerated depreciation                     $2,981       $2,795
  Property basis differences                    2,154        2,175
  Deferred plant costs                             54          100
  Other                                           308          247
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           5,497        5,317
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
  Federal effect of state deferred taxes          110          107
  Other property basis differences                253          273
  Deferred costs                                  139          118
  Pension and other benefits                       68           66
  Other                                           214          192
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                             784          756
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                    4,713        4,561
Portion included in current assets, net            25           50
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income taxes
    in the Consolidated Balance Sheet          $4,738       $4,611
===================================================================


                                       II-31

  
NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

    Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this
manner amounted to $33 million in 1996, $38 million in 1995, and $42 million in
1994. At December 31, 1996, all investment tax credits available to reduce
federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

    A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                          1996     1995     1994
                                       ---------------------------
Federal statutory rate                    35.0%    35.0%    35.0%
State income tax,
   net of federal deduction                3.2      3.4      3.3
Non-deductible book
   depreciation                            1.8      1.6      1.8
Difference in prior years'
   deferred and current tax rate          (1.0)    (1.1)    (1.5)
Other                                     (0.5)     0.3      0.3
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate                 38.5%    39.2%    38.9%
==================================================================

    Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return. Under a
joint consolidated income tax agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred
tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the
parent company are allocated to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable
income to total consolidated taxable income.

9.    COMMON STOCK

Shares Reserved

At December 31, 1996, a total of 59 million shares was reserved for issuance
pursuant to the Southern Investment Plan, the Employee Savings Plan, the Outside
Directors Stock Plan, and the Executive Stock Option Plan.

Executive Stock Option Plan

Southern Company's Executive Stock Option Plan authorizes the granting of
non-qualified stock options to key employees of Southern Company, including
officers. As of December 31, 1996, 249 current and former employees participated
in the plan. The maximum number of shares of common stock that may be issued
under the Executive Stock Option Plan may not exceed 6 million. The prices of
options granted to date have been at the fair market value of the shares on the
dates of grant. Options granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a
maximum period of four years from the date of grant. Options outstanding will
expire no later than 10 years after the date of grant, unless terminated earlier
by the board of directors in accordance with the plan. Stock option activity in
1995 and 1996 is summarized below:

                                             Shares         Average
                                            Subject     Option Price
                                          To Option       Per Share
                                  ----------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1994               1,736,604         $17.39
Options granted                            1,161,174          21.63
Options canceled                              (8,088)         21.63
Options exercised                           (413,391)         14.34
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1995               2,476,299          19.87
Options granted                            1,460,731          23.00
Options canceled                             (16,862)         22.23
Options exercised                            (97,988)         17.94
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1996               3,822,180         $21.11
====================================================================
Shares reserved for future grants:
   At December 31, 1994                    3,268,001
   At December 31, 1995                    2,114,915
   At December 31, 1996                      671,046
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Options exercisable:
   At December 31, 1995                      831,227
   At December 31, 1996                    1,276,846
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

    The pro forma impact on net income of fair-value accounting for options
granted -- as required by FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation -- is not significant to the financial statements.

Common Stock Dividend Restrictions

The income of Southern Company is derived primarily from equity in earnings of
its subsidiaries. At December 31, 1996, consolidated retained earnings included
$3.3 billion of undistributed retained earnings of the subsidiaries. Of this
amount, $2.0 billion was restricted against the payment by the subsidiary
companies of cash dividends on common stock under terms of bond indentures or
charters.

10.   PREFERRED SECURITIES

The subsidiary obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities were issued
by special purpose financing entities. Substantially all the assets of these
entities are $100 million and $335 million aggregate principal amount of Alabama
Power or Georgia Power junior subordinated debt, respectively. Alabama Power and
Georgia Power each considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to the
preferred securities issued for its benefit, taken together, constitute a full


                                       II-32



NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

and unconditional guarantee, by the respective companies of the issuing
entities' payment obligations with respect to such preferred securities.

11.   OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of other long-term debt at December 31 are as follows:

                                               1996       1995
                                            --------------------
                                               (in millions)

Obligations incurred in connection 
     with the sale by public authorities
     of tax-exempt pollution control
     revenue bonds:
Collateralized --
    4.375% to 9.375% due
       2000-2026                             $1,403     $1,466
    Variable rates (3.2% to 5.25%
       at 1/1/97) due 2011-2025                 639        639
Non-collateralized --
    7.25% due 2003                                1          1
    6.75% to 8.375% due 2015-2020               200        277
    5.8% due 2022                                10         10
    Variable rates (4.65% to 5.25%
       at 1/1/97) due 2021-2026                 265        132
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                              2,518      2,525
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Capitalized lease obligations                   151        147
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Notes payable:
    4.62% to 10% due 1996-1999                  230        252
    6.375% to 11% due 2000-2008                 864        240
    Adjustable rates (4% to 13% at
      1/1/97) due 1996-1999                     210        190
    Adjustable rates (5.775% to
      7.5625% at 1/1/97) due
      2000-2002                                  96        938
    Adjustable rate (7.38% at
      1/1/97) due 2004-2006                      15        111
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                              1,415      1,731
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                        $4,084     $4,403
================================================================

   With respect to the collateralized pollution control revenue bonds, the
operating companies have authenticated and delivered to trustees a like
principal amount of first mortgage bonds as security for obligations under
installment sale or loan agreements. The principal and interest on the first
mortgage bonds will be payable only in the event of default under the
agreements.

   Sinking fund requirements and/or serial maturities through 2001 applicable to
other long-term debt are as follows: $79 million in 1997; $96 million in 1998;
$279 million in 1999; $160 million in 2000; and $205 million in 2001.

12.   LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year at December 31 is as follows:

                                                   1996     1995
                                                 ----------------
                                                  (in millions)
Bond improvement fund requirements                 $ 40     $ 43
Less:
    Portion to be satisfied by certifying
      property additions                              4       18
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Cash sinking fund requirements                       36       25
First mortgage bond maturities
    and redemptions                                  76      220
Other long-term debt maturities
    (Note 11)                                        79      264
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                              $191     $509
=================================================================

    The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirements amount to 1
percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the indentures
prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to collateralize
pollution control and other obligations. The requirements may be satisfied by
depositing cash or reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal
to 166 2/3 percent of such requirements.

13.   NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988, Alabama Power and Georgia Power
maintain agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private
insurance, cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident
occurring at the companies' nuclear power plants. The act provides funds up to
$8.9 billion for public liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear
incident. Each nuclear plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of
$200 million by private insurance, with the remaining coverage provided by a
mandatory program of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a nuclear
incident, against all owners of nuclear reactors. A company could be assessed up
to $79 million per incident for each licensed reactor it operates, but not more
than an aggregate of $10 million per incident to be paid in a calendar year for
each reactor. Such maximum assessment, excluding any applicable state premium
taxes, for Alabama Power and Georgia Power -- based on its ownership and buyback


                                       II-33


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

interests -- is $159 million and $162 million, respectively, per incident, but
not more than an aggregate of $20 million per company to be paid for each
incident in any one year.

    Alabama Power and Georgia Power are members of Nuclear Mutual Limited (NML),
a mutual insurer established to provide property damage insurance in an amount
up to $500 million for members' nuclear generating facilities. The members are
subject to a retrospective premium assessment in the event that losses exceed
accumulated reserve funds. Alabama Power's and Georgia Power's maximum annual
assessments are limited to $9 million and $11 million, respectively, under
current policies.

    Additionally, both companies have policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million NML
coverage. This excess insurance is provided by Nuclear Electric Insurance
Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company.

    NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant. Members can be insured against increased costs of replacement power in an
amount up to $3.5 million per week -- starting 21 weeks after the outage -- for
one year and up to $2.8 million per week for the second and third years.

    Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if
losses each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under
that policy. The maximum annual assessments under current policies for Alabama
Power and Georgia Power for excess property damage would be $15 million and $16
million, respectively. The maximum replacement power assessments are $8 million
for Alabama Power and $12 million for Georgia Power.

    For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose
of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any
remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination
and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and any further remaining
proceeds are to be paid either to the company or to its bond trustees as may be
appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

    Alabama Power and Georgia Power participate in an insurance program for
nuclear workers that provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily
injury caused at commercial nuclear power plants. In the event that claims for
this insurance exceed the accumulated reserve funds, Alabama Power and Georgia
Power could be subject to a maximum total assessment of approximately $6 million
each.

    All retrospective assessments -- whether generated for liability, property,
or replacement power -- may be subject to applicable state premium taxes.



                                       II-34



NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report

14.   ACQUISITIONS

In 1995, Southern Energy acquired SWEB for approximately $1.8 billion. This
British utility distributes electricity to some 1.3 million customers.

    The acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. The acquisition cost exceeded the fair market value of net assets by
$287 million. This amount is considered goodwill and is being amortized on a
straight-line basis over 40 years. A preliminary estimate of $333 million of
goodwill was originally reported and later revised in 1996.

    SWEB has been included in the consolidated financial statements since
September 1995. The following unaudited pro forma results of operations for the
years 1995 and 1994 have been prepared assuming the acquisition of SWEB,
effective January 1, 1994, and assuming 100 percent short-term debt financing.
The proforma results are not necessarily indicative of the actual results that
would have been realized had the acquisition occurred on the assumed date, nor
are they necessarily indicative of future results. Pro forma operating results
are for information purposes only and are as follows:



15.   SEGMENT INFORMATION



                                       II-35

 


NOTES (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



16.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)



                                       II-36

   

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 1986 - 1996
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-37


SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 1986 - 1996
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-38A


SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 1986 - 1996
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-38B



SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 1986 - 1996 (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-39

  


SELECTED CONSOLIDARED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA 1986-1996  (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-40A

                                                                     
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATE 1986 - 1996  (continued)
Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-40B




  

                                      II-41








                                     II-42A



                                     II-42B





                                      II-43






                                     II-44A



                                     II-44B




( ) Denotes use of cash.
                                     II-45




( ) Denotes use of cash.
                                     II-46A




( ) Denotes use of cash.

                                     II-46B





                                     II-47




                                     II-48A






                                     II-48B





                                     II-49




                                     II-50A




                                     II-50B







                                      II-51







                                      II-52A







                                     II-52B




                            







                              ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

                               FINANCIAL SECTION


                                     II-53





MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report
                                                                
The management of Alabama Power Company has prepared -- and is responsible for
- -- the financial statements and related information included in this report.
These statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include amounts that
are based on the best estimates and judgments of management. Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

    The company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that the books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the company's internal audit staff. The company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of directors who are
not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial reporting and
control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with management, the
internal auditors and the independent public accountants to ensure that these
groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss auditing, internal
controls, and financial reporting matters. The internal auditors and independent
public accountants have access to the members of the audit committee at any
time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows
of Alabama Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.


/s/ Elmer B. Harris
Elmer B. Harris
President and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ William B. Hutchins, III
William B. Hutchins, III
Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer

February 12, 1997


                                       II-54

 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors of Alabama Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Alabama Power Company (an Alabama corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary
of Southern Company) as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related
statements of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1996. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-62 through II-79)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of Alabama Power Company as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles.



/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
Birmingham, Alabama
February 12, 1997


                                       II-55



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Alabama Power Company's 1996 net income after dividends on preferred stock was
$371 million, representing a $10.6 million (2.9 percent) increase from the prior
year. This improvement can be attributed to an increase in retail energy sales
of 2.7 percent from 1995 levels and lower net interest charges compared to the
prior year. This improvement was partially offset by a 4.4 percent increase in
operating costs.

    In 1995, earnings were $361 million, representing a 1.3 percent increase
from the prior year. This increase was due to an increase in retail energy sales
of 4.7 percent, brought about by extreme summer weather. This improvement was
partially offset by a 2.6 percent increase in operating costs.

    The return on average common equity for 1996 was 13.75 percent compared to
13.61 percent in 1995, and 13.86 percent in 1994.

Revenues

Total revenues for 1996 were $3.1 billion, reflecting a 3.2 percent increase
from 1995. The following table summarizes the principal factors that affected
operating revenues for the past three years:

                                    Increase (Decrease)
                                      From Prior Year
                          ----------------------------------------
                               1996         1995          1994
                          ----------------------------------------
                                      (in thousands)
   Retail --
       Change in
           base rates        $(19,380)    $    990      $  --
       Unbilled
           adjustment             --           --       28,000
       Sales growth            61,765       18,174      45,304
       Weather                (29,660)      54,888     (39,964)
       Fuel cost recovery
           and other          (30,846)      35,235     (84,344)
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Total retail               (18,121)     109,287     (51,004)
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Sales for resale --
       Non-affiliates          21,529       15,380      (9,345)
       Affiliates              88,890      (37,032)    (17,213)
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Total sales for resale     110,419      (21,652)    (26,558)
   Other operating
       revenues                 3,703        1,997       5,095
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Total operating
       revenues              $ 96,001     $ 89,632    $(72,467)
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Percent change                 3.2%         3.1%       (2.4)%
   ---------------------------------------------------------------

    Retail revenues of $2.5 billion in 1996 decreased $18 million (0.7 percent)
from the prior year, compared with an increase of $109 million (4.6 percent) in
1995. Lower fuel cost recovery was the primary reason for the decrease in 1996
retail revenues as compared to 1995. The hot weather during the summer of 1995
and higher fuel cost recovery were the primary reasons for the increase in
retail revenues over 1994. Fuel revenues generally represent the direct recovery
of fuel expense, including the fuel component of purchased energy, and therefore
have no effect on net income.

    Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area under
long-term contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity revenues
reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the
contracts. Energy is generally sold at variable cost. These capacity and energy


                                       II-56

 
MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

components, as well as the components of the sales to affiliated companies,
were:

                      1996           1995           1994
                  -------------------------------------------
                                (in thousands)

   Capacity         $159,488       $158,825       $165,063
   Energy            315,925        209,376        222,579
   ----------------------------------------------------------
   Total            $475,413       $368,201       $387,642
   ----------------------------------------------------------

    Capacity revenues from non-affiliates remained relatively constant over the
past three years. Sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric
system will vary from year to year depending on demand, the availability, and
the variable production cost of generating resources at each company.

    Kilowatt-hour (KWH) sales for 1996 and the percent change by year were as
follows:

                          KWH             Percent Change
                      -------------------------------------------
                        1996       1996       1995         1994
                      -------------------------------------------
                      (millions)

Residential              14,594     1.5%       9.1%      (1.7)%
Commercial*              10,904     8.6        4.1        3.4
Industrial*              19,999     0.7        2.0        3.2
Other                       193     3.1        0.5        1.1
                      ----------
Total retail             45,690     2.7        4.7        3.3
Sales for resale -
   Non-affiliates         9,491    18.0       18.8       (5.2)
   Affiliates            10,292    53.5      (20.5)       4.3
                      ----------
Total                    65,473    10.5%       2.6%       2.4%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
*The KWH sales for 1996 reflect a reclassification of approximately 200
customers from industrial to commercial, which resulted in a shift of 473
million KWH. Absent the reclassification, the percentage change in KWH sales for
commercial and industrial would have been 3.9% and 3.1%, respectively.

    The increase in 1996 retail energy sales was primarily due to the strength
of business and economic conditions in the company's service area. The 1995
retail sales growth was the result of hotter-than-normal summer weather and a
strong economy in the company's service territory. Assuming normal weather,
sales to retail customers are projected to grow approximately 2.7 percent
annually on average during 1997 through 2002.

Expenses

Total operating expenses of $2.5 billion for 1996 were up $105 million or 4.4
percent compared with 1995. The major components of this increase include $85
million in fuel costs, $15 million in maintenance expense, and $17 million in
depreciation and amortization offset by a decrease in purchased power of $15
million.

    Total operating expenses of $2.4 billion for 1995 were up 2.6 percent
compared with the prior year. This increase was primarily due to higher other
operation expenses and increased purchased power. This was somewhat offset by
decreases in fuel costs and maintenance expenses.

    Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the company. The mix of
fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by system
load, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of hydro and nuclear
generating units. The amount and sources of generation and the average cost of
fuel per net KWH generated were as follows:

                                  ----------------------------
                                   1996      1995       1994
                                  ----------------------------
Total generation
    (billions of KWHs)                 65       58       57
Sources of generation
    (percent) --
       Coal                            72       73       68
       Nuclear                         20       19       23
       Hydro                            8        8        9
Average cost of fuel per net
    KWH generated
      (cents) --
        Coal                         1.71     1.71      1.92
        Nuclear                      0.50     0.50      0.49
                                  
Total                                1.46     1.48      1.56
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Note:  Oil & Gas comprise less than 0.5% of generation.

    Fuel expense increased in 1996 by $85 million or 10.8 percent. This increase
can be attributed to higher generation. Fuel expense decreased in 1995 by $10
million or 1.3 percent. This decrease resulted from lower average cost of fuel
consumed.

    Purchased power consists primarily of purchases from the affiliates of the
Southern electric system. Purchased power transactions among the company and its
affiliates will vary from period to period depending on demand, the



                                       II-57


MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

availability, and the variable production cost of generating resources at each
company. Total KWH purchases declined 9.3 percent from the prior year.

    The increase in maintenance expenses for 1996 is due to increased nuclear
expenses, primarily outage related accruals. The decrease in 1995 over 1994
reflects the establishment in 1994 of the Natural Disaster Reserve. See Note 1
to the financial statements under "Natural Disaster Reserve" for additional
information.

    Depreciation and amortization expense increased 5.6 percent in 1996 and 3.6
percent in 1995. These increases reflect additions to utility plant.

    The company contributed $6.8 million to the Alabama Power Foundation, Inc.
in 1996, which represents a decrease of $4.7 million from the previous year. The
Foundation makes distributions to qualified entities which are organized
exclusively for charitable, educational, literary, and scientific purposes.

    The decline in net interest charges in 1996 by $11 million (4.5 percent) was
due primarily to a charge of $10 million in 1995 to the amortization of debt
discount, premium, and expense net, pursuant to an Alabama Public Service
Commission (APSC) order. See Note 3 to the financial statements under "Retail
Rate Adjustment Procedures" for additional details. Total net interest charges
and preferred stock dividends increased 12.2 percent in 1995. This increase
results from (i) interest on interim obligations which rose due to higher
average interest rates on an increased average amount of short-term debt
outstanding and (ii) amortization of debt discount, premium, and expense net,
pursuant to such order.

Effects of Inflation

The company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an economic loss
because the company is recovering its costs of investments in dollars that have
less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in
recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the company because of
the large investment in long-lived utility plant. Conventional accounting for
historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations, such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from energy sales growth to a less regulated more
competitive environment.

    Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in electric sales,
which are subject to a number of factors. Traditionally, these factors have
included weather, competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities,
energy conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the
rate of economic growth in the company's service area. However, the Energy
Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) is having a dramatic effect on the future of the
electric utility industry. The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency,
alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric utilities. The
company is positioning the business to meet the challenge of this major change
in the traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy Act allows
independent power producers (IPPs) to access a utility's transmission network in
order to sell electricity to other utilities. This enhances the incentive for
IPPs to build cogeneration plants for a utility's large industrial and
commercial customers and sell excess energy generation to other utilities. Also,
electricity sales for resale rates are being driven down by wholesale
transmission access and numerous potential new energy suppliers, including power
marketers and brokers. The company is aggressively working to maintain and
expand its share of wholesale business in the Southeastern power markets.

     Various federal and state initiatives designed to promote wholesale and
retail competition, among other things, include proposals that would allow
customers to choose their electricity provider.  As the initiatives 
materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically change.
Certain initiatives could result in a change in the ownership and/or
operation of generation and transmission facilities.  Numerous issues must be
resolved, including significant ones relating to transmission pricing and
recovery of stranded investments.  Being a low-cost producer could provide
significant opportunities to increase market share and profitability in 
markets that evolve with changing regulation.  Unless the company remains a
low-cost producer and provides quality service, the company's retail energy 
sales growth could be limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.


                                       II-58



MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

new markets that evolve with the changing regulation. Conversely, unless the
company remains a low-cost producer and provides quality service, the company's
retail energy sales growth could be limited, and this could significantly erode
earnings.

    The addition of four combustion turbine generating units in May 1996
increased related operation and maintenance expenses and depreciation expenses.
These additions are to ensure reliable service to customers during critical peak
times.

    Rates to retail customers served by the company are regulated by the APSC.
Rates for the company can be adjusted periodically within certain limitations
based on earned retail rate of return compared with an allowed return. In June
1995, the APSC issued an order granting the company's request for gradual
adjustments to move toward parity among customer classes. This order also calls
for a moratorium on any periodic retail rate increases (but not decreases) until
2001.

    In December 1995, the APSC issued an order authorizing the company to reduce
balance sheet items -- such as plant and deferred charges -- at any time the
company's actual base rate revenues exceed the budgeted revenues. See Note 3 to
the financial statements for information about this and other matters.

    The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has questioned certain
of the current accounting practices of the electric utility industry --
including the company -- regarding the recognition, measurement, and
classification of decommissioning costs for nuclear generating facilities in the
financial statements. In response to these questions, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) has decided to review the accounting for liabilities
related to closure and removal of long-lived assets, including nuclear
decommissioning. If the FASB issues new accounting rules, the estimated costs of
closing and removing the company's nuclear and other facilities may be required
to be recorded as liabilities in the Balance Sheets. Also, the annual provisions
for such costs could change. Because of the company's current ability to recover
closure and removal costs through rates, these changes would not have a
significant adverse effect on results of operations. See Note 1 to the financial
statements under "Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning" for additional
information.

    Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air
Act) could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The Clean Air
Act and other important environmental items are discussed later under
"Environmental Matters."

    The company is subject to the provisions of FASB Statement No. 71,
Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation. In the event that a
portion of the company's operations is no longer subject to these provisions,
the company would be required to write off related regulatory assets and
liabilities, and determine if any other assets have been impaired. See Note 1 to
the financial statements under "Regulatory Assets and Liabilities" for
additional information.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

The company's financial condition remained stable in 1996. This stability is the
continuation over recent years of growth in energy sales and cost control
measures combined with a significant lowering of the cost of capital, achieved
through the refinancing and/or redemption of higher-cost long-term debt and
preferred stock.

    The company had gross property additions of $425 million in 1996. The
majority of funds needed for gross property additions for the last several years
have been provided from operating activities, principally from earnings and
non-cash charges to income such as depreciation and deferred income taxes. The
Statements of Cash Flows provide additional details.

Capital Structure

The company's ratio of common equity to total capitalization -- including
short-term debt -- was 45.3 percent in 1996, compared with 45.0 percent in 1995,
and 45.9 percent in 1994.

    In January 1996, Alabama Power Capital Trust I (Trust I), of which the
company owns all of the common securities, issued $97 million of 7.375 percent
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.  Substantially all of the assets of
Trust I are $100 million aggregate principal amount of the company's 7.375 
percent junior subordinated notes due March 31, 2026. Additionally, in November


                                       II-59

  
MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

1996, the company issued through public authorities $21 million of pollution
control revenue refunding bonds.

    In January 1997, Alabama Power Capital Trust II (Trust II), of which the
company owns all of the common securities, issued $200 million of 7.60 percent
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of
Trust II are $206 million aggregate principal amount of the company's 7.60
percent junior subordinated notes due December 31, 2036. A portion of the
proceeds of the January 1997 issuance will be used for the redemption of $100
million of preferred stock in February 1997.

    The company's current securities ratings are as follows:

                              Duff &                 Standard
                              Phelps     Moody's     & Poor's
                             ----------------------------------
   First Mortgage Bonds        AA-          A1           A+
   Company Obligated
     Mandatorily
     Redeemable
     Preferred Securities       A+          a2           A
   Preferred Stock              A+          a2           A
   ------------------------------------------------------------

Capital Requirements

Capital expenditures are estimated to be $425 million for 1997, $519 million for
1998, and $622 million for 1999. The total is $1.6 billion for the three years.
Actual capital costs may vary from this estimate because of factors such as
changes in business conditions; revised load growth projections; changes in
environmental regulations; changes in the existing nuclear plant to meet new
regulatory requirements; increasing cost of labor, equipment, and materials; and
cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to
capital expenditures will be fully recovered.

    The company has entered into agreements with two of its industrial customers
to locate cogeneration facilities at their premises. These facilities will
provide process steam to the respective customers concurrent with the production
of electricity for use on the company's electric system. Each facility, which is
primarily composed of a combustion turbine, will have approximately 100
megawatts of electric capacity and will serve as a base load resource for the
company. These facilities are expected to be placed in service in 1999 at a
total cost of approximately $90 million. In addition, significant construction
of transmission and distribution facilities and upgrading of generating plants
will continue.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds needed for the capital budget, approximately $220
million will be required by the end of 1999 for maturities of first mortgage
bonds. Also, the company will continue to retire higher-cost debt and preferred
stock and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market conditions
permit.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- impacts Southern
Company. Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from
fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase I compliance
began in 1995 and affected 28 generating units of Southern Company. As a result
of Southern Company's compliance strategy, an additional 22 generating units
were brought into compliance with Phase I requirements. Phase II compliance is
required in 2000, and all fossil-fired generating plants will be affected.

    In 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began issuing annual
sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the allowance trading program. An
emission allowance is the authority to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a
calendar year. The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to
minimize the cost of compliance. Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to use allowances as a compliance option.

   Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
This compliance strategy resulted in unused emission allowances being banked for
later use. Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled
approximately $25 million for the company.

    For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, the company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization


                                       II-60



MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

equipment at selected plants. Also equipment to control nitrogen oxide emissions
will be installed on additional system fossil-fired units as required to meet
Phase II limits. Therefore, the current compliance strategy could require total
Phase II estimated construction expenditures of approximately $40 million, of
which $30 million remains to be spent. However, the full impact of Phase II
compliance cannot now be determined with certainty, pending the continuing
development of a market for emission allowances, the completion of EPA
regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction technologies.

   An average increase of up to 1 percent in annual revenue requirements from
customers could be necessary to fully recover the company's cost of compliance
for both Phase I and Phase II of Title IV of the Clean Air Act. Compliance costs
include construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to low-sulfur
coal, and costs related to emission allowances.

   A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

   The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various matters including: revisions to the ambient air standards for
ozone and particulate matter; emission control strategies for ozone
nonattainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant emissions;
and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new standards will
depend on the development and implementation of applicable regulations.

    The company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations, the company could incur costs to clean up properties. The company
conducts studies to determine the extent of any required cleanup costs and has
recognized in the financial statements costs to clean up known sites.

   Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of Southern Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

   Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect Southern Company. The impact of new legislation -- if
any -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of
applicable regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the
result of lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.

Sources of Capital

It is anticipated that the funds required will be derived from sources in form
and quantity similar to those used in the past. To issue additional first
mortgage bonds and preferred stock, the company must comply with certain
earnings coverage requirements designated in its mortgage indenture and
corporate charter. The company's coverages are at a level that would permit any
necessary amount of security sales at current interest and dividend rates.

    As required by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and as ordered by the APSC,
the company has established external trust funds for nuclear decommissioning
costs. In 1994, the company also established an external trust fund for
postretirement benefits as ordered by the APSC. The cumulative effect of funding
these items over a long period will diminish internally funded capital and may
require capital from other sources. For additional information concerning
nuclear decommissioning costs, see Note 1 to the financial statements under
"Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning."


                                       II-61



STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report




                                       II-62



STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report


                                       II-63


BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report




                                       II-64

  
BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-65


STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report




                                       II-66


STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-67




NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

General

Alabama Power Company (the company) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern
Company, which is the parent company of five operating companies, a system
service company, Southern Communications Services (Southern Communications),
Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear Operating Company
(Southern Nuclear), The Southern Development and Investment Group (Southern
Development), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The operating
companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company,
Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah Electric and Power Company) provide
electric service in four southeastern states. Contracts among the companies --
dealing with jointly-owned generating facilities, interconnecting transmission
lines, and the exchange of electric power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The system service company provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern
Company and subsidiary companies. Southern Communications provides digital
wireless communications services to the operating companies and also markets
these services to the public within the Southeast. Southern Energy designs,
builds, owns and operates power production and delivery facilities and provides
a broad range of energy related services in the United States and international
markets. Southern Nuclear provides services to Southern Company's nuclear power
plants. Southern Development develops new business opportunities related to
energy products and services.

    Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The company is also
subject to regulation by the FERC and the Alabama Public Service Commission
(APSC). The company follows generally accepted accounting principles and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the respective
regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates, and
the actual results may differ from those estimates.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are to be credited to
customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Balance Sheets at December 31 relate to:

                                          1996          1995
                                       -------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Deferred income taxes                    $ 410,010    $ 436,837
Premium on reacquired debt                  84,149       89,967
Department of Energy assessments            37,490       40,282
Vacation pay                                28,369       29,458
Work force reduction costs                  45,969       48,402
Deferred income tax credits               (364,792)    (386,038)
Natural disaster reserve                   (20,757)     (17,959)
Other, net                                  45,521       39,172
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                    $ 265,959    $ 280,121
================================================================

    In the event that a portion of the company's operations is no longer subject
to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the company would be required to write
off related regulatory assets and liabilities. In addition, the company would be
required to determine any impairment to other assets, including plant, and write
down the assets, if impaired, to their fair value.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

The company accrues revenues for services rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period. Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The company's
electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
and the energy component of purchased power costs. Revenues are adjusted for
differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts actually recovered in
current rates.

    The company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or
industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1996, uncollectible
accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.
                                            

                                       II-68

   
NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    Fuel expense includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear fuel and a
charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear
fuel. Total charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted to $64
million in 1996, $54 million in 1995, and $65 million in 1994. The company has a
contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that provides for the
permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Although disposal was scheduled to
begin in 1998, the actual year this service will begin is uncertain. Sufficient
storage capacity currently is available to permit operation into 2010 and 2013
at Plant Farley units 1 and 2, respectively.

    Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the establishment in 1993 of a
Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is to be
funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants. This
assessment will be paid over a 15- year period, which began in 1993. This fund
will be used by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. The law provides that utilities will recover
these payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense. The company
estimates its remaining liability at December 31, 1996, under this law to be
approximately $37 million. This obligation is recognized in the accompanying
Balance Sheets.

Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.3 percent in 1996 and 3.2 percent in 1995 and 1994. When property subject to
depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected cost
of decommissioning nuclear facilities and removal of other facilities.

    In 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) adopted regulations
requiring all licensees operating commercial power reactors to establish a plan
for providing, with reasonable assurance, funds for decommissioning. The company
has established external trust funds to comply with the NRC's regulations.
Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being transferred into the
external trust funds over periods approved by the APSC. The NRC's minimum
external funding requirements are based on a generic estimate of the cost to
decommission the radioactive portions of a nuclear unit based on the size and
type of reactor. The company has filed plans with the NRC to ensure that -- over
time -- the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will provide the
minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC.

    Site study cost is the estimate to decommission the facility as of the
site study year, and ultimate cost is the estimate to decommission the facility
as of retirement date. The estimated costs of decommissioning -- both site study
costs and ultimate costs -- at December 31, 1996, for Plant Farley were as
follows:

    Site study basis (year)                          1993

    Decommissioning periods:
        Beginning year                               2017
        Completion year                              2029
    -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                (in millions)
    Site study costs:
        Radiated structures                        $  489
        Non-radiated structures                        89
    -----------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                          $  578
    ===========================================================
                                                (in millions)
    Ultimate costs:
        Radiated structures                        $1,504
        Non-radiated structures                       274
    -----------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                          $1,778
    ===========================================================

                                                (in millions)
    Amount expensed in 1996                        $   18
    -----------------------------------------------------------

    Accumulated provisions:
        Balance in external trust funds            $  149
        Balance in internal reserves                   47
    -----------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                          $  196
    ===========================================================

    Significant assumptions:
        Inflation rate                                4.5%
        Trust earning rate                            7.0
    -----------------------------------------------------------

    Annual provisions for nuclear decommissioning are based on an annuity 
method as approved by the APSC. All of the company's decommissioning costs are
approved for ratemaking.

    The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary


                                       II-69


NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

from the above estimates because of changes in the assumed date of
decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, or changes in the assumptions used
in making estimates.

Income Taxes

The company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes
and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax temporary
differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and amortized to
income over the average lives of the related property.

Allowance For Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The composite rate used to determine the amount of
allowance was 5.8 percent in 1996, 7.1 percent in 1995, and 7.9 percent in 1994.
AFUDC, net of income tax, as a percent of net income after dividends on
preferred stock was 1.1 percent in 1996, 1.7 percent in 1995 and 1.5 percent in
1994.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost. Original cost includes: materials;
labor; minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction. The cost of maintenance,
repairs and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense. The cost of replacements of property (exclusive of minor items of
property) is charged to utility plant.

Financial Instruments

The company's only financial instruments for which the carrying amount did not
approximate fair value at December 31 are as follows:

                                       Carrying         Fair
                                        Amount         Value
                                      -------------------------
                                             (in millions)
   Long-term debt:
     At December 31, 1996               $2,367         $2,420
     At December 31, 1995               $2,451         $2,577
   Preferred Securities:
     At December 31, 1996                   97             94
     At December 31, 1995                    -              -
   ------------------------------------------------------------

    The fair value for long-term debt and preferred securities was based on
either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory
when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

Natural Disaster Reserve

In September 1994, in response to a request by the company, the APSC issued an
order allowing the company to establish a Natural Disaster Reserve. Regulatory
treatment allows the company to accrue $250 thousand per month, until the
maximum accumulated provision of $32 million is attained. However, in December
1995, the APSC approved higher accruals to restore the reserve to its authorized
level whenever the balance in the reserve declines below $22.4 million.


                                       II-70



NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

2.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on one of the
following formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of service
and a flat-dollar benefit. The company uses the "entry age normal method with a
frozen initial liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject to
limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the pension
trusts are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities. FASB
Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

The company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. Amounts funded are primarily invested in debt and
equity securities. In December 1993, the APSC issued an accounting policy
statement which requires the company to externally fund net annual
postretirement benefits.

    FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The following tables show actuarial results and assumptions for pension and
postretirement insurance benefits as computed under the requirements of
Statement Nos. 87 and 106, respectively. The funded status of the plans at
December 31 was as follows:


                                                 Pension
                                            -------------------
                                               1996      1995
                                           --------------------
                                               (in millions)
                                                                              
  Actuarial present value of
   benefit obligations:
      Vested benefits                       $  603    $  604
      Non-vested benefits                       30        25 
- ---------------------------------------------------------------                 
 Accumulated benefit obligation                633       629    
  Additional amounts related to                                                
     projected salary increases                180       173  
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Projected benefit obligation                813       802 
   Less:                                                        
      Fair value of plan assets              1,334     1,256    
      Unrecognized net gain                   (413)     (331)  
      Unrecognized prior service cost           46        21 
      Unrecognized transition asset            (40)      (45)
- --------------------------------------------------------------- 
Prepaid asset recognized in the  
      Balance Sheets                        $  114    $   99  
===============================================================


                                            Postretirement
                                               Benefits
                                        ----------------------
                                          1996       1995
                                        ----------------------
                                           (in millions)

   Actuarial present value of
      benefit obligation:
        Retirees and dependents            $116       $103
        Employees eligible to retire         28         31
        Other employees                      98        104
   -----------------------------------------------------------
   Accumulated benefit obligation           242        238
   Less:
      Fair value of plan assets             108         89
      Unrecognized net loss                  15         23
      Unrecognized transition
        obligation                           65         72
   -----------------------------------------------------------
   Accrued liability recognized
      in the Balance Sheets                $ 54       $ 54
   ===========================================================

    In 1995, the system companies announced a cost sharing program for
postretirement benefits. The program establishes limits on amounts the company
will pay to provide future retiree postretirement benefits. This change reduced
the 1995 accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $41
million.


                                       II-71


NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations were:

                                1996       1995      1994
                              -------------------------------

   Discount                      7.8%       7.3%      8.0%
   Annual salary increase        5.3        4.8       5.5
   Long-term return on
      plan assets                8.5        8.5       8.5
   ----------------------------------------------------------

    An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 9.3
percent for 1996, decreasing gradually to 5.8 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation as of December 31, 1996, by $20 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net retiree cost by $2 million.

    Components of the plans' net cost are shown below:

                                               Pension
   ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1996     1995       1994
                                    -------------------------------
                                            (in millions)
   Benefits earned during
      the year                        $  21.5   $  21.2   $  20.8
   Interest cost on projected
       benefit obligation                59.5      54.3      51.2
   Actual (return) loss on plan
       assets                          (148.9)   (236.3)     23.5
   Net amortization and deferral         43.8     136.9    (116.2)
   ----------------------------------------------------------------
   Net pension cost (income)          $ (24.1)  $ (23.9)  $ (20.7)
   ================================================================

         Of the above net pension income, $20.3 million in 1996, $17.1 million
in 1995, and $15.7 million in 1994 were recorded as credits to operating
expenses, and the remainder was recorded as credits to construction and other
accounts.

                                           Postretirement
                                              Benefits
                                         --------------------
                                          1996   1995   1994
                                         --------------------
                                            (in millions)

Benefits earned during the year            $ 5    $ 7    $ 8
Interest cost on accumulated
   benefit obligation                       17     18     18
Amortization of transition
   obligation                                4      7      6
Actual (return) loss on plan
   assets                                   (7)   (10)     1
Net amortization and deferral                2      5     (4)
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement costs                   $21    $27    $29
=============================================================

    Of the above net postretirement costs recorded, $17.8 million in 1996, $22.7
million in 1995, and $23 million in 1994 were charged to operating expenses and
the remainder was charged to construction and other accounts.

Work Force Reduction Programs

The company has incurred costs for work force reduction programs. The costs
related to these programs were $26.7 million, $14.3 million and $8.2 million for
the years 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. In addition, certain costs of these
programs were deferred and are being amortized in accordance with regulatory
treatment. The unamortized balance of these costs was $46.0 million at December
31, 1996.

3.   LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

Retail Rate Adjustment Procedures

In November 1982, the APSC adopted rates that provide for periodic adjustments
based upon the company's earned return on end-of-period retail common equity.
The rates also provide for adjustments to recognize the placing of new
generating facilities in retail service. Both increases and decreases have been
placed into effect since the adoption of these rates. The rate adjustment
procedures allow a return on common equity range of 13.0 percent to 14.5 percent
and limit increases or decreases in rates to 4 percent in any calendar year.

    In June 1995, the APSC issued a rate order granting the company's request
for gradual adjustments to move toward parity among customer classes. This order


                                       II-72

 
NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

also calls for a moratorium on any periodic retail rate increases (but not
decreases) until July 2001.

    In December 1995, the APSC issued an order authorizing the company to reduce
balance sheet items -- such as plant and deferred charges -- at any time the
company's actual base rate revenues exceed the budgeted revenues.

    The ratemaking procedures will remain in effect until the APSC votes to
modify or discontinue them.

Appliance Warranty Litigation

In 1996, legal actions against the company were filed in several counties in
Alabama charging the company with fraud and non-compliance with regulatory
statutes relating to the offer, sale, and financing of "extended service
contracts" in connection with the sale of electric appliances. Some of these
suits were filed as class actions, while others were filed on behalf of multiple
individual plaintiffs. The plaintiffs seek damages for an unspecified amount.
The company has offered extended service agreements to its customers since
January 1984, and approximately 175,000 extended service agreements could be
involved in these proceedings. The final outcome of these cases cannot now be
determined.

FERC Reviews Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the operating companies' wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar contracts.

    In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

    In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on
substantially the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a
FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to
meet its burden of proof, and therefore, no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter is pending before the FERC.

    If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all of the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings, as
well as certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in determining
return on common equity, and if refunds were ordered, the amount of refunds
could range up to approximately $160 million at December 31, 1996 for Southern
Company, of which the company's portion would be approximately $76 million.
However, management believes that rates are not excessive, and that refunds are
not justified.

4.   CAPITAL BUDGET

The company's capital expenditures are currently estimated to total $425 million
in 1997, $519 million in 1998, and $622 million in 1999. The capital budget is
subject to periodic review and revision, and actual capital cost incurred may
vary from the above estimates because of numerous factors. These factors
include: changes in business conditions; revised load growth projections;
changes in environmental regulations; changes in the existing nuclear plant to
meet new regulatory requirements; increasing costs of labor, equipment, and
materials; and cost of capital. At December 31, 1996, significant purchase
commitments were outstanding in connection with the construction program. The
company has entered into agreements with two of its industrial customers to
locate cogeneration facilities at their premises. These facilities will provide
process steam to the respective customers concurrent with the production of
electricity for use on the company's electric system. Each facility, which is
primarily composed of a combustion turbine, will have approximately 100
megawatts of electric capacity and will serve as a base load resource for the
company. These facilities are expected to be placed in service in 1999 at a
total cost of approximately $90 million. In addition, significant construction
will continue related to transmission and distribution facilities and the
upgrading of generating plants.


                                       II-73


NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

5.   FINANCING, INVESTMENT, AND COMMITMENTS

General

To the extent possible, the company's construction program is expected to be
financed primarily from internal sources. Short-term debt is often utilized and
the amounts available are discussed below. The company may issue additional
long-term debt and preferred securities for the purposes of debt maturities,
redeeming higher-cost securities, and meeting additional capital requirements.

Financing

The ability of the company to finance its capital budget depends on the amount
of funds generated internally and the funds it can raise by external financing.
The company's primary sources of external financing are sales of first mortgage
bonds and preferred stock to the public and receipt of additional paid-in
capital from Southern Company. In order to issue additional first mortgage bonds
and preferred stock, the company must comply with certain earnings coverage
requirements contained in its mortgage indenture and corporate charter. The most
restrictive of these provisions requires, for the issuance of additional first
mortgage bonds, that before-income-tax earnings, as defined, cover pro forma
annual interest charges on outstanding first mortgage bonds at least twice; and
for the issuance of additional preferred stock, that gross income available for
interest cover pro forma annual interest charges and preferred stock dividends
at least one and one-half times. The company's coverages are currently at a
level that would permit any necessary amount of security sales at current
interest and dividend rates.

Bank Credit Arrangements

The company, along with Southern Company and Georgia Power Company, has entered
into agreements with several banks outside the service area to provide $400
million of revolving credit to the companies through June 30, 1999. To provide
liquidity support for commercial paper programs, the company and Georgia Power
Company have exclusive right to $135 million and $165 million, respectively, of
the available credit. However, the allocations can be changed among the
borrowers by notifying the respective banks. The companies have the option of
converting the short-term borrowings into term loans, payable in 12 equal
quarterly installments, with the first installment due at the end of the first
calendar quarter after the applicable termination date or at an earlier date at
the companies' option. In addition, these agreements require payment of
commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments or the
maintenance of compensating balances with the banks.

    Additionally, the company maintains committed lines of credit in the amount
of $680 million (including $208 million of such lines under which borrowings may
be made only to fund purchase obligations relating to variable rate pollution
control bonds) which expire at various times during 1997 and, in certain cases,
provide for average annual compensating balances. Because the arrangements are
based on an average balance, the company does not consider any of its cash
balances to be restricted as of any specific date. Moreover, the company borrows
from time to time pursuant to arrangements with banks for uncommitted lines of
credit.

    At December 31, 1996, the company had regulatory approval to have
outstanding up to $750 million of short-term borrowings.

Assets Subject to Lien

The company's mortgage, as amended and supplemented, securing the first mortgage
bonds issued by the company, constitutes a direct lien on substantially all of
the company's fixed property and franchises.

Fuel Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
company has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of
fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
price escalations, minimum purchase levels and other financial commitments.
Total estimated long-term obligations at December 31, 1996, were as follows:

Year                                Amounts       
- ----                         -------------------
                                 (in millions)
1997                               $  808       
1998                                  770       
1999                                  569       
2000                                  300       
2001                                  317       
2002 - 2013                         2,594       
- ------------------------------------------------
Total commitments                  $5,358
================================================


                                       II-74

  
NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Operating Leases

The company has entered into coal rail car rental agreements with various terms
and expiration dates. At December 31, 1996, estimated minimum rental commitments
for noncancellable operating leases were as follows:


                                                  Amounts       
Year                                          ----------------
                                                (in millions)
                                                      
1997                                                $ 3         
1998                                                  3         
1999                                                  3         
2000                                                  3         
2001                                                  3         
2002- 2017                                           53 
- ---------------------------------------------------------
Total minimum payments                              $68
==========================================================

6.   JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

The company and Georgia Power Company own equally all of the outstanding capital
stock of Southern Electric Generating Company (SEGCO), which owns electric
generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020 megawatts, together with
associated transmission facilities. The capacity of these units is sold equally
to the company and Georgia Power Company under a contract which, in substance,
requires payments sufficient to provide for the operating expenses, taxes,
interest expense and a return on equity, whether or not SEGCO has any capacity
and energy available. The company's share of expenses totaled $75 million in
1996, $71 million in 1995 and $74 million in 1994, and is included in "Purchased
power from affiliates" in the Statements of Income.

    In addition, the company has guaranteed unconditionally the obligation of
SEGCO under an installment sale agreement for the purchase of certain pollution
control facilities at SEGCO's generating units, pursuant to which $24.5 million
principal amount of pollution control revenue bonds are outstanding. Georgia
Power Company has agreed to reimburse the company for the pro rata portion of
such obligation corresponding to its then proportionate ownership of stock of
SEGCO if the company is called upon to make such payment under its guaranty.

    At December 31, 1996, the capitalization of SEGCO consisted of $52 million
of equity and $76 million of long-term debt on which the annual interest
requirement is $4.7 million. SEGCO paid dividends totaling $10.1 million in
1996, $7.6 million in 1995, and $11.6 million in 1994, of which one-half of each
was paid to the company. SEGCO's net income was $7.7 million, $8.1 million, and
$7.2 million for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

    The company's percentage ownership and investment in jointly-owned
generating plants at December 31, 1996, follows:

                             Total
                            Megawatt         Company
     Facility (Type)        Capacity        Ownership
   -------------------    ------------    -----------------

   Greene County               500            60.00% (1)
      (coal)
   Plant Miller
      Units 1 and 2          1,320            91.84% (2)
      (coal)
   --------------------------------------------------------
(1)  Jointly owned with an affiliate, Mississippi Power Company.
(2)  Jointly owned with Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc.

                             Company         Accumulated
        Facility           Investment        Depreciation
   -------------------    --------------    ---------------
                                    (in millions)
   Greene County             $ 90                 $ 40
   Plant Miller                       
     Units 1 and 2            714                  296
   --------------------------------------------------------

7.   LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

General

The company and the operating affiliates of Southern Company have entered into
long-term contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain
non-affiliated utilities located outside the system's service area. The
agreements for non-firm capacity expired in 1994. Other agreements -- expiring
at various dates discussed below -- are firm and pertain to capacity related to
specific generating units. Because the energy is generally sold at cost under
these agreements, profitability is primarily affected by revenues from capacity
sales. The company's capacity revenues have been as follows:

                       Unit         Other
       Year           Power       Long-Term        Total
   ----------------------------------------------------------
                                 (in millions)
       1996           $151          $ -            $151
       1995            157            -             157
       1994            152            7             159
   ----------------------------------------------------------


                                       II-75



NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    Unit power from Plant Miller is being sold to Florida Power Corporation
(FPC), Florida Power & Light Company (FP&L), Jacksonville Electric Authority
(JEA) and the City of Tallahassee, Florida. Under these agreements,
approximately 1,200 megawatts of capacity is scheduled to be sold through 1999.
Thereafter, these sales will remain at that approximate level -- unless reduced
by FP&L, FPC, and JEA for the periods after 1999 with a minimum of three years
notice -- until the expiration of the contracts in 2010.

Alabama Municipal Electric Authority (AMEA) Capacity Contracts

In August 1986, the company entered into a firm power purchase contract with
AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of capacity (to a maximum 100
megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing September 1, 1986 (1986
Contract). In October 1991, the company entered into a second firm power
purchase contract with AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of additional
capacity (to a maximum 80 megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing October
1, 1991 (1991 Contract). In both contracts the power will be sold to AMEA for
its member municipalities that previously were served directly by the company as
wholesale customers. Under the terms of the contracts, the company received
payments from AMEA representing the net present value of the revenues associated
with the respective capacity entitlements, discounted at effective annual rates
of 9.96 percent and 11.19 percent for the 1986 and 1991 contracts, respectively.
These payments are being recognized as operating revenues and the discounts are
being amortized to other interest expense as scheduled capacity is made
available over the terms of the contracts.

    In order to secure AMEA's advance payments and the company's performance
obligation under the contracts, the company issued and delivered to an escrow
agent first mortgage bonds representing the maximum amount of liquidated damages
payable by the company in the event of a default under the contracts. No
principal or interest is payable on such bonds unless and until a default by the
company occurs. As the liquidated damages decline under the contracts, a portion
of the bonds equal to the decreases are returned to the company. At December 31,
1996, $128.2 million of such bonds was held by the escrow agent under the
contracts.

8.   INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1996, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were
$410 million and $365 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to
tax benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable
to capitalized AFUDC. These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes
previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.

    Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:

                                     1996           1995           1994
                                 -------------------------------------------
                                                (in thousands)
 Total provision for income
   taxes:
   Federal --
     Currently payable           $172,911       $166,105       $219,494
     Deferred--
       current year                (6,309)        43,493        (48,153)
       reversal of prior years     18,948        (15,817)        15,932
     Deferred investment tax
       credits                          -            (75)            (1)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  185,550        193,706        187,272
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
State--
     Currently payable             16,212         18,108         20,565
     Deferred--
       current year                   697          5,117         (4,067)
       reversal of prior years      3,249            (91)         3,676
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   20,158         23,134         20,174
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                             205,708        216,840        207,446
Less income taxes credited
     to other income              (22,400)       (14,142)       (16,834)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes
     charged to operations       $228,108       $230,982       $224,280
============================================================================

    The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of 


                                       II-76

 
NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

                                          1996                 1995
                                        ------------------------------
                                                  (in millions)
Deferred tax liabilities:
     Accelerated depreciation           $  816               $  780 
     Property basis differences            466                  491
     Premimum on reacquired debt            31                   31
     Other                                  51                   42
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                    1,364                1,344
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
     Capacity prepayments                   34                   35
     Other deferred costs                   27                   26
     Postretirement benefits                21                   25
     Unbilled revenue                       15                   13
     Other                                  54                   43
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                      151                  142
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities             1,213                1,202
Portion included in current assets
     (liabilities), net                    (35)                 (10)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income taxes
     in the Balance Sheets              $1,178               $1,192
======================================================================

    Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $11 million in 1996, $12 million in 1995, and $13 million in 1994.
At December 31, 1996, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal
income taxes payable had been utilized.

    A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                       1996     1995     1994
                                     --------------------------
 Federal statutory rate               35.0%    35.0%    35.0%
 State income tax,
   net of federal deduction            2.2      2.5      2.2
 Non-deductible book
   depreciation                        1.5      1.6      1.6
 Differences in prior years'
   deferred and current tax rates     (1.6)    (1.8)    (2.9)
 Other                                (3.0)    (1.4)    (0.7)
 --------------------------------------------------------------
 Effective income tax rate            34.1%    35.9%    35.2%
 ==============================================================

    Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return. Under a
joint consolidated income tax agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred
tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the
parent company are allocated to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable
income to total consolidated taxable income.

9.   COMPANY OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES

In January 1996, Alabama Power Capital Trust I (Trust I), of which the company
owns all of the common securities, issued $97 million of 7.375 percent
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.  Substantially all of the assets
of Trust I are $100 million aggregate principal amount of the company's 7.375 
percent junior subordinated notes due March 31, 2026.

    In January 1997, Alabama Power Capital Trust II (Trust II), of which the
company also owns all of the common securities, issued $200 million of 7.60
percent mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the
assets of Trust II are $206 million aggregate principal amount of the company's
7.60 percent junior subordinated notes due December 31, 2036. A portion of the
proceeds of the January 1997 issuance will be used for the redemption of $100
million of preferred stock in February 1997.


                                       II-77

  

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

10.  OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of other long-term debt at December 31 are as follows:

                                          1996         1995
                                   --------------------------
                                        (in thousands)
   Obligations incurred in
      connection with the
      sale of tax-exempt
      pollution control revenue
      bonds by public authorities-
       Collateralized -
          5.5% to 6.5 % due
            2023-2024                 $223,040     $223,040
          Variable rates (4.15%
            to 5.0% at 1/1/97)
            due 2015-2017               89,800       89,800
       Non-collateralized -
          7.25% due 2003                 1,000        1,000
          7.4% due 2016                      -       21,000
          5.8% due 2022                  9,800        9,800
       Variable rates (4.65%
            to 5.1% at 1/1/97)
            due 2021 - 2022            152,500      131,500
- --------------------------------------------------------------
                                       476,140      476,140
Capitalized lease obligations            8,056        8,963
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                 $484,196     $485,103
==============================================================

    Pollution control obligations represent installment purchases of pollution
control facilities financed by funds derived from sales by public authorities of
revenue bonds. The company is required to make payments sufficient for the
authorities to meet principal and interest requirements of such bonds. With
respect to $312.8 million of such pollution control obligations, the company has
authenticated and delivered to the trustees a like principal amount of first
mortgage bonds as security for its obligations under the installment purchase
agreements. No principal or interest on these first mortgage bonds is payable
unless and until a default occurs on the installment purchase agreements.

   The estimated aggregate annual maturities of other long-term debt through
2001 are as follows: $1.0 million in 1997, $1.0 million in 1998, $1.2 million in
1999, $1.1 million in 2000 and $1.0 million in 2001.

11.   SECURITIES DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt and preferred stock due within one year at
December 31 is as follows:

                                                1996         1995
                                        ---------------------------
                                                 (in thousands)
    Bond improvement fund
       requirements                         $  19,410     $20,047
                                              
    First mortgage bond maturities
       and redemptions                           391       63,750
    Other long-term debt maturities
       (Note 10)                                 952          885
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total long-term debt due within
       one year                               20,753       84,682
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
     Preferred stock to be reacquired        100,000            -
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                   $120,753      $84,682
    ===============================================================

      The annual first mortgage bond improvement fund requirement is 1 percent
of the aggregate principal amount of bonds of each series authenticated, so long
as a portion of that series is outstanding, and may be satisfied by the deposit
of cash and/or reacquired bonds, the certification of unfunded property
additions or a combination thereof. The 1997 requirement of $19.4 million was
satisfied by the deposit of cash in 1997, all of which was used for the
redemption of outstanding first mortgage bonds. Also in early 1997, the company
redeemed $391 thousand first mortgage bonds and announced the February 1997
redemption of $100 million preferred stock. The preferred stock will be redeemed
with a portion of the proceeds from the January 1997 Trust II security issuance.
Scheduled maturities amount to $952 thousand in connection with capitalized
office building leases and a street light lease.

12.   NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988 (Act), the company maintains
agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private insurance,
cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident occurring at Plant
Farley. The Act provides funds up to $8.9 billion for public liability claims
that could arise from a single nuclear incident. Plant Farley is insured against
this liability to a maximum of $200 million by private insurance, with the
remaining coverage provided by a mandatory program of deferred premiums which
could be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against all owners of nuclear


                                       II-78



NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

reactors. The company could be assessed up to $79 million per incident for each
licensed reactor it operates but not more than an aggregate of $10 million per
incident to be paid in a calendar year for each reactor. Such maximum
assessment, excluding any applicable state premium taxes, for the company is
$159 million per incident but not more than an aggregate of $20 million to be
paid for each incident in any one year.

    The company is a member of Nuclear Mutual Limited (NML), a mutual insurer
established to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500 million
for members' nuclear generating facilities. The members are subject to a
retrospective premium assessment in the event that losses exceed accumulated
reserve funds. The company's maximum annual assessment per incident is limited
to $9 million under the current policy.

    Additionally, the company has policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million NML
coverage. This excess insurance is provided by Nuclear Electric Insurance
Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company.

    NEIL also covers the additional cost that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant. Members can be insured against increased cost of replacement power in an
amount up to $3.5 million per week (starting 21 weeks after the outage) for one
year and up to $2.8 million per week for the second and third years.

    Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if
losses each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under
that policy. The maximum annual assessments per incident under current policies
for the company would be $15 million for excess property damage and $8 million
for replacement power.

    For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose
of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any
remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination
and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and any further remaining
proceeds are to be paid either to the company or to its bond trustees as may be
appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

    The company participates in an insurance program for nuclear workers that
provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused at
commercial nuclear power plants. In the event that claims for this insurance
exceed the accumulated reserve funds, the company could be subject to a maximum
total assessment of $6 million.

      All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property
or replacement power may be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

13.   COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

The company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various common stock
dividend restrictions that remain in effect as long as the bonds are
outstanding. At December 31, 1996, retained earnings of $796 million was
restricted against the payment of cash dividends on common stock under terms of
the mortgage indenture. Supplemental indentures in connection with future first
mortgage bond issues may contain more stringent common stock dividend
restrictions than those currently in effect.

14.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1996 and 1995 are as follows:

                                                     Net Income
                                                       After
                                                     Dividends
       Quarter            Operating    Operating    on Preferred
        Ended             Revenues      Income         Stock
 -------------------    -----------------------------------------
                                     (in thousands)

 March 1996                $732,809     $142,052      $ 73,159
 June 1996                  779,587      151,673        95,778
 September 1996             913,308      222,523       152,589
 December 1996              695,071      100,390        49,964

 March 1995                $646,771     $122,949      $ 65,328
 June 1995                  753,053      157,685        88,926
 September 1995             938,284      233,322       167,938
 December 1995              686,666      111,362        38,702
 ----------------------------------------------------------------

The company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.


                                       II-79



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report


                                       II-80

 

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report




                                       II-81A


SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report




                                       II-81B


SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-81C


SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-82

 
SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                       II-83A



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report




                                       II-83B


SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1996 Annual Report

                                                       

                                       II-83C

  

                                     II-84


                                     II-85A



                                     II-85B



                                     II-86



                                     II-87A



                                     II-87B






                                     II-88





                                     II-89A




                                     II-89B




                                     II-90


                                     II-91A




                                     II-91B

                              ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
                   OUTSTANDING SECURITIES AT DECEMBER 31, 1996




                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
             OUTSTANDING SECURITIES AT DECEMBER 31, 1996 (Continued)

                                   Preferred Stock
                            Shares               Dividend          Amount
        Series         Outstanding                 Rate         Outstanding
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                (Thousands)
       1946-1952             364,000             4.20%            $ 36,400
         1950                100,000             4.60%              10,000
         1961                 80,000             4.92%               8,000
         1963                 50,000             4.52%               5,000
         1964                 60,000             4.64%               6,000
         1965                 50,000             4.72%               5,000
         1966                 70,000             5.96%               7,000
         1968                 50,000             6.88%               5,000
         1988                500,000             Auction            50,000
         1992              4,000,000             7.60%             100,000
         1992              2,000,000             7.60%              50,000
         1993              1,520,000             6.80%              38,000
         1993              2,000,000             6.40%              50,000
         1993                    200             Auction            20,000
         1993              2,000,000             Adjustable         50,000
                          ==========                              ========
                          12,844,200                              $440,400
                          ==========                              ========





                         SECURITIES RETIRED DURING 1996

                                First Mortgage Bonds
                         Principal                 Interest
        Series             Amount                    Rate
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                        (Thousands)
         1991            $    23,797             9-1/4%
         1993                 60,000             4-1/2%
                         ===========
                         $    83,797
                         ===========




                          Pollution Control Bonds
                         Principal                 Interest
        Series            Amount                     Rate
       ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                        (Thousands)
         1986            $    21,000             7.40%
                         ===========
                         $    21,000
                         ===========


                                     II-93






                          



                              GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

                               FINANCIAL SECTION


                                      II-94


MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

The management of Georgia Power Company has prepared this annual report and is
responsible for the financial statements and related information. These
statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances, and necessarily include amounts
that are based on the best estimates and judgments of management. Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

    The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that the books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls based upon the recognition that the cost of the
system should not exceed its benefits. The Company believes that its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff. The Company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, which is composed of six
directors who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's
financial reporting and control functions. At least three times a year this
committee meets with management, the internal auditors, and the independent
public accountants to ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations
and to discuss auditing, internal control and financial reporting matters. The
internal auditors and the independent public accountants have access to the
members of the audit committee at any time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted with a high standard of
business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations and cash flows
of Georgia Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



/s/ Allen Franklin
H. Allen Franklin
President and Chief Executive Officer


/s/ Warren Y. Jobe
Warren Y. Jobe
Executive Vice President, Treasurer and
Chief  Financial Officer


February 12, 1997


                                       II-95




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
To the Board of Directors of Georgia Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Georgia Power Company (a Georgia corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of
Southern Company) as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related statements
of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1996. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-104 through II-125)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of Georgia Power Company as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the 
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles.




/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997


                                       II-96



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
  CONDITION
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Georgia Power Company's 1996 earnings totaled $580 million, representing a $29
million (4.7 percent) decrease from 1995. Earnings for 1995 included an
after-tax gain of approximately $12 million from the completion of the sale of
Plant Scherer Unit 4. The remaining decrease in 1996 earnings was primarily due
to increased operating and maintenance expenses, partially offset by lower
interest charges compared to the prior year. The Company's 1995 earnings
increased 15.9 percent over 1994. Earnings for 1994 were reduced by a $55
million after-tax charge related to work force reduction programs. Excluding the
charge related to 1994 work force reduction programs, earnings for 1995
increased 4.8 percent over 1994 primarily due to higher retail energy sales and
lower interest charges, partially offset by higher operating expenses.

Revenues

The following table summarizes the factors impacting operating revenues for the
1994-1996 period:

                                      Increase (Decrease)
                                        From Prior Year
                               -----------------------------------
                                  1996        1995        1994
                               -----------------------------------
Retail -                                 (in millions)
   Sales growth                   $  58        $110       $  67
   Weather                          (25)         69        (128)
   Fuel cost recovery                28          66         (35)
   Demand-side programs             (10)         36         (12)
 ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total retail                         51         281        (108)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Sales for resale -
   Non-affiliates                    (9)        (61)       (183)
   Affiliates                       (41)         16          (1)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total sales for resale              (50)       (45)        (184)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Other operating revenues             10           7           3
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating revenues          $  11        $243       ($289)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Percent change                      0.3%        5.8%       (6.5)%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

    Retail revenues of $4.0 billion in 1996 increased $51 million (1.3 percent)
over the prior year primarily due to strong economic growth and an increase in
sales to existing customers. Retail revenues increased in 1995 over the prior
year primarily due to the continued expansion of Georgia's economy and the hot
summer of 1995. Milder-than-normal weather occurred during the summer of 1994.

    Fuel revenues generally represent the direct recovery of fuel expense,
including the fuel component of purchased energy, and do not affect net income.
Revenues from demand-side option programs generally represent the direct
recovery of program costs. See Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Demand-Side Conservation Programs" for further information on these programs.

    Revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities decreased in both 1996 and
1995. Revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities outside the service area
under long-term contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity
revenues reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under
the contracts. Energy is generally sold at variable cost. The capacity and
energy components were as follows:

                                 1996       1995      1994
                               -------------------------------
                                       (in millions)
Capacity                          $41        $53      $ 84
Energy                             43         45        82
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Total                             $84        $98      $166
==============================================================

    Contractual unit power sales to Florida utilities for 1996 and 1995 are down
primarily due to scheduled reductions that corresponded with the sales to these
utilities of portions of Plant Scherer Unit 4 in June 1995 and June 1994. The
amount of capacity under these contracts declined by 75 megawatts and 155
megawatts in 1996 and 1995, respectively. In 1997, the contracted capacity will
decline another 14 megawatts.

    Revenues from other sales to non-affiliated utilities outside the service
area in 1996 increased $14 million over the prior year due to a 74.5 percent
increase in sales. Revenues for 1995 decreased by $27 million due to a 51.9
percent decrease in sales. These sales are primarily energy sales generally sold
at variable cost.

    Revenues from municipalities and cooperatives in Georgia decreased in 1996
primarily due to the recognition of an agreement to refund $14 million to these
customers and a decrease of approximately $8 million in capacity revenues under


                                       II-97


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

a power supply agreement with Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC). See Note 3 to
the financial statements under "Wholesale Litigation" for additional information
on the refund agreement. Beginning in September 1996, OPC decreased its
purchases of capacity by 250 megawatts and has notified the Company of its
intent to decrease purchases of capacity by an additional 250 megawatts in
September 1997, and an additional 250 megawatts in September 1998. This decrease
in revenues discussed above was partially offset by revenues from increased
sales compared to the prior year due to higher demand. Sales increased in 1995
primarily due to higher summer demand resulting from the hot weather.

    Revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric
system will vary from year to year depending on demand and the availability and
cost of generating resources at each company. Sales to affiliated companies do
not have a significant impact on earnings.

    Kilowatt-hour (KWH) sales for 1996 and the percent change by year were as
follows:

                                          Percent Change
                                    ----------------------------
                           KWH       1996      1995      1994
                         --------- ------------------------------
                       (in billions)
Residential                  17.8     3.0%      10.4%    (5.8)%
Commercial                   20.8     4.9        5.9      2.5
Industrial                   26.2     3.6        3.9      3.0
Other                         0.5     8.6        2.0      5.0
                           -------
Total retail                 65.3     3.9        6.2      0.4
                           -------
Sales for resale -
   Non-affiliates             7.9    19.4      (17.3)   (44.3)
   Affiliates                 1.2   (56.9)     (10.4)     0.9
                           -------
Total sales for resale        9.1    (3.0)     (15.4)   (36.4)
                           -------
Total sales                  74.4     3.0        2.8     (8.0)
                           =======

    Residential, commercial and industrial energy sales growth in 1996 reflected
strong economic growth and an increase in sales to existing customers. The 1995
sales growth was the result of favorable weather conditions in addition to
increased customers and economic growth.

Expenses

Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for the Company. The mix of
fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by system
load, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of hydro and nuclear
generating units. The amount and sources of generation and the average cost of
fuel per net kilowatt-hour generated were as follows:

                                       1996     1995     1994
                                    --------------------------
Total generation
   (billions of kilowatt-hours)       63.7     64.3     62.4
Sources of generation
   (percent) --
     Coal                             74.3     73.7     74.8
     Nuclear                          22.4     22.6     21.9
     Hydro                             2.7      3.0      3.1
     Oil and gas                       0.6      0.7      0.2
Average cost of fuel per net
   kilowatt-hour generated
     (cents) --
       Coal                           1.55     1.67     1.67
       Nuclear                        0.55     0.60     0.63
       Oil and gas                       *        *        *
       Total                          1.35     1.44     1.44
- --------------------------------------------------------------

   * Not meaningful because of minimal generation from
       fuel source.

    Fuel expense decreased 7.3 percent in 1996 because of a decrease in
generation resulting from the timing of maintenance at nuclear plants and a
lower average cost of fuel. Fuel expense increased 3.5 percent in 1995 because
of higher generation which stemmed from greater demand.

    Purchased power expense increased $72 million (22.8 percent) in 1996
primarily due to increased purchases from affiliated companies as a result of
the timing of maintenance at nuclear plants discussed above. The increase in
1996 was partially offset by a decrease in energy purchases from wholesale
customers within the service areas and a decline in contractual capacity
purchases from the co-owners of Plant Vogtle. Purchased power expense decreased
$36 million in 1995, reflecting the declining Plant Vogtle contractual capacity
purchases and decreased purchases from affiliated companies. The declines in


                                       II-98

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Plant Vogtle contractual capacity purchases did not have a significant impact on
earnings in 1996 and 1995 since these costs are being levelized over six years
under the terms of the 1991 Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC) retail rate
order. The levelization is reflected in the amortization of deferred Plant
Vogtle costs in the Statements of Income. See Note 1 to the financial statements
under "Plant Vogtle Phase-In Plans" for additional information.

    The Company has incurred expenses for separation benefits associated with
its work force reduction programs. These expenses were $39 million in 1996, $11
million in 1995, and $82 million in 1994.

    Other operation and maintenance (O&M) expenses, excluding the provision for
separation benefits, increased 2.9 percent in 1996 primarily as a result of
initiatives to reduce fossil generation materials inventory levels, an
adjustment to deferred postretirement benefits to reflect changes in the retiree
benefits plan, and increased costs under a three-year retail accounting order
effective January 1, 1996. See Note 3 to the financial statements under "Retail
Accounting Order" for additional information. Other O&M expenses increased 12.2
percent in 1995 primarily as a result of the recognition of costs associated
with demand-side option programs and increased maintenance expenses. The
demand-side option program costs were offset in part by increases in retail
revenues. During 1995, the Company expensed an additional $58 million of
demand-side option program and other related costs, as compared to 1994, of
which approximately $29 million was not collected through rate riders. See Note
3 to the financial statements under "Demand-Side Conservation Programs" for
additional information on the recovery of these program costs.

    Depreciation and amortization increased $11 million in 1996 primarily due to
accelerated depreciation of generating plant pursuant to the retail accounting
order effective January 1996 discussed above, and an increase in
plant-in-service. Depreciation and amortization increased $43 million in 1995
primarily due to additional plant investment, accelerated amortization of
software costs, and an increase in nuclear decommissioning expenses.

    Taxes other than income taxes increased 1.2 percent in 1996 and 5.2 percent
in 1995, primarily reflecting higher franchise taxes paid to municipalities as a
result of increased sales.

    Other, net decreased $35 million in 1996 primarily due to expenses in
connection with activities related to the 1996 Summer Olympic games and the
completion of the sale, in June 1995, of Plant Scherer Unit 4, which resulted in
an after-tax gain of approximately $12 million. An increase in charitable
contributions resulted in the decrease in other income (expense), net in 1995.

    Interest expense decreased $52 million (17.4 percent) and $51 million (14.6
percent) in 1996 and 1995, respectively. Dividends on preferred stock also
decreased $3 million in 1996. These reductions are primarily due to the
refinancing of securities. The Company refinanced or retired $510 million and
$1.0 billion of securities in 1996 and 1995, respectively. The retirements
included the redemption of $264 million of long-term debt with the proceeds from
the 1995 and 1994 Plant Scherer Unit 4 sales.

    The Company has deferred certain expenses and recorded a deferred return
related to Plant Vogtle under phase-in plans. See Note 1 to the financial
statements under "Plant Vogtle Phase-In Plans" for information regarding the
deferral and subsequent amortization of costs related to Plant Vogtle.

Effects of Inflation

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an economic loss
because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in dollars that have
less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in
recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of
the large investment in long-lived utility plant. Conventional accounting for
historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings. The level of future earnings depends on numerous
factors including regulatory matters and energy sales.


                                       II-99


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report


    On January 1, 1996, the Company began operating under a three-year retail
accounting order. Under the order, which was approved by the GPSC on February
16, 1996, the Company's earnings are evaluated against a retail return on common
equity range of 10 percent to 12.5 percent. Earnings in excess of 12.5 percent
will be used to accelerate the amortization of regulatory assets or depreciation
of electric plant. At its option, the Company may also recognize accelerated
amortization or depreciation of assets within the allowed return on common
equity range. The Company is required to absorb cost increases of approximately
$29 million annually during the order's three-year operation, including $14
million annually of accelerated depreciation of electric plant. During the
order's operation, the Company will not file for a general base rate increase
unless its projected retail return on common equity falls below 10 percent.
Under the order, on July 1, 1998 the Company will make a general rate case
filing in response to which the GPSC would be expected either to continue
provisions of the accounting order or adopt different ones. The Company's 1996
retail return on common equity was within the 10 percent to 12.5 percent range.
In November 1996, on appeal by a consumer group, the Superior Court of Fulton
County (Georgia) reversed the GPSC's order and remanded the matter to the GPSC.
The court found that statutory requirements applicable to rate cases should have
been, but were not, followed. The Company and the GPSC have appealed the court's
decision. The Company is continuing to recognize expenses in accordance with the
accounting order while it is under appeal.

    Growth in energy sales is subject to a number of factors which traditionally
have included changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, weather,
competition, initiatives to increase sales to existing customers, and the rate
of economic growth in the Company's service area. Assuming normal weather,
retail sales growth is projected to be approximately 2 percent annually on
average during 1997 through 1999.

    The Company has entered into a four-year purchase power agreement to meet
peaking needs. Beginning in 1996, the Company purchased 400 megawatts of
capacity. In 1997, this amount will decline to 300 megawatts and in 1998 and
1999 to 200 megawatts. Capacity payments are projected to be $5 million in 1997
and $3 million in 1998 and 1999. The Company has also entered into a 30-year
purchase power agreement whereby the Company will buy electricity during peak
periods from a planned 300 megawatt cogeneration facility starting in June 1998.
Capacity and fixed O&M payments are projected to be $13 million in 1998 and $15
million in 1999.

    The amortization of Plant Vogtle costs deferred under phase-in plans will
decline by $16 million in 1997, $89 million in 1998, $12 million in 1999, and
$19 million in 2000. These costs will be fully amortized by September 1999. See
Note 1 to the financial statements under "Plant Vogtle Phase-In Plans" for
additional information. Additionally, work force reduction programs implemented
in the past three years will assist in efforts to control growth in future
operating expenses.

    As discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements, regulatory uncertainties
exist related to the Rocky Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric plant. In the
event the GPSC does not allow full recovery of the plant's costs, then the
portion not allowed may have to be written off. The Company's net investment in
the plant as of December 1996 is approximately $175 million.

    Beginning in September 1996, OPC decreased its purchases of capacity under a
power supply agreement by 250 megawatts and has notified the Company of its
intent to decrease purchases of capacity by an additional 250 megawatts in
September 1997, and an additional 250 megawatts in September 1998. As a result,
the Company's capacity revenues declined approximately $8 million in 1996, and
will decline an additional $24 million in 1997, an additional $26 million in
1998, and an additional $19 million in 1999.

    The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates wholesale rate
schedules and power sales contracts that the Company has with its sales for
resale customers. The FERC currently is reviewing the rate of return on common
equity included in these schedules and contracts and may require such returns to
be lowered, possibly retroactively. See Note 3 to the financial statements under
"FERC Review of Equity Returns" for additional information.

    Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air
Act) could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The Clean Air
Act and other environmental issues are discussed later under "Environmental
Issues."


                                      II-100

 

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    The Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) is having a dramatic effect on
the future of the electric utility industry. The Energy Act promotes energy
efficiency, alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric
utilities. The Company is positioning the business to meet the challenge of this
major change in the traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy Act
allows independent power producers (IPPs) to access a utility's transmission
network in order to sell electricity to other utilities. This enhances the
incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for a utility's large industrial
and commercial customers and sell excess energy generation to other utilities.
Also, electricity sales for resale rates are being driven down by wholesale
transmission access and numerous potential new energy suppliers, including power
marketers and brokers. The Company is aggressively working to maintain and
expand its share of wholesale sales in the Southeastern power markets.

    The Company continues to compete with other electric suppliers within the
state. In Georgia, most new retail customers with at least 900 kilowatts of
connected load may choose their electricity supplier. Various federal and state
initiatives designed to promote wholesale and additional retail competition, 
among other things, include proposals that would allow customers to choose 
their electricity provider.  As the initiatives materialize, the structure of
the utility industry could radically change.  Certain initiatives could result 
in a change in the ownership and/or operation of generation and transmission
facilities.   Numerous issues must be resolved, including significant ones 
relating to transmission pricing and recovery of stranded investments. Being
a low-cost producer could provide significant opportunities to increase market 
share and profitability in markets that evolve with changing regulation.  
Unless the Company remains a low-cost producer and provides quialty service, 
the Company's retail energy sales growth could be limited, and this could
significantly erode earnings.

    The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to these provisions, the Company would be required to write off related
regulatory assets and liabilities, and determine if any other assets have been
impaired. See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Regulatory Assets and
Liabilities" for additional information.

    The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has questioned certain
of the current accounting practices of the electric utility industry --
including the Company's -- regarding the recognition, measurement, and
classification of decommissioning costs for nuclear generating facilities in the
financial statements. In response to these questions, the FASB has decided to
review the accounting for liabilities related to closure and removal of
long-lived assets, including nuclear decommissioning. If the FASB issues new
accounting rules, the estimated costs of closing and removing the Company's
nuclear and other facilities may be required to be recorded as liabilities in
the Balance Sheets. Also, the annual provisions for such costs could change.
Because of the Company's current ability to recover closure and removal costs
through rates, these changes would not have a significant adverse effect on
results of operations. See Note 1 to the financial statements under
"Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning" for additional information.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Plant Additions

In 1996 gross utility plant additions were $428 million. These additions were
primarily related to transmission and distribution facilities and to the
purchase of nuclear fuel. The funds needed for gross property additions are
currently provided from operations. The Statements of Cash Flows provide
additional details.

Financing Activities

In 1996, the Company continued to lower its financing costs by refinancing
higher-cost issues. New issues during 1994 through 1996 totaled $1.6 billion and
retirement or repayment of securities totaled $2.2 billion. The retirements
included the redemption of $131 million and $133 million in 1995 and 1994,
respectively, of first mortgage bonds with the proceeds from the Plant Scherer
Unit 4 sales. Composite financing rates for long-term debt


                                      II-101


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report


and preferred stock for the years 1994 through 1996, as of year-end, were as
follows:

                                 1996        1995       1994
                               ---------------------------------
Composite interest rate
   on long-term debt              6.39%      6.57%       7.14%
Composite preferred
   stock dividend rate            6.34       6.73        7.11
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

The Company's current securities ratings are as follows:

                             Duff &                  Standard &
                              Phelps     Moody's       Poor's
                             ------------------------------------
First Mortgage Bonds             AA-         A1           A+
Preferred Stock                   A+         a2           A
Unsecured Bonds                   A+        A2            A
Commercial Paper                  D1+       P1            A1
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

    In August 1996, Georgia Power Capital Trust I (Trust I), of which the
Company owns all the common securities, issued $225 million of 7.75 percent 
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.  Substantially all of the assets of
Trust I are $232 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.75 
percent Junior Subordinated Notes due June 30, 2036. In January 1997, Georgia 
Power Capital Trust II (Trust II), of which the Company owns all the common 
securities, issued $175 million of 7.60 percent mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities. Substantially all of the assets of Trust II are $180 million 
aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.60 percent Junior Subordinated 
Notes due December 31, 2036.

Liquidity and Capital Requirements

Cash provided from operations decreased by $31 million in 1996, primarily due to
higher operating and maintenance expenses.

    The Company estimates that construction expenditures for the years 1997
through 1999 will total $490 million, $479 million and $464 million,
respectively. Investments in transmission and distribution facilities,
enhancements to existing generating plants, additions of a co-owned combustion
turbine generating plant, and equipment to comply with the provisions of the
Clean Air Act are planned.

    Cash requirements for improvement fund requirements, redemptions announced,
and maturities of long-term debt and preferred stock are expected to total $436
million during 1997 through 1999.

    As a result of requirements by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the
Company has established external trust funds for the purpose of funding nuclear
decommissioning costs. For 1997 through 1999, the amount to be funded totals $24
million annually. For additional information concerning nuclear decommissioning
costs, see Note 1 to the financial statements under "Depreciation and Nuclear
Decommissioning."

Sources of Capital

The Company expects to meet future capital requirements primarily using funds
generated from operations and, if needed, by the issuance of new debt and equity
securities, term loans, and short-term borrowings. To meet short-term cash needs
and contingencies, the Company had approximately $1.1 billion of unused credit
arrangements with banks at the beginning of 1997. See Note 9 to the financial
statements under "Bank Credit Arrangements" for additional information.

    The Company is required to meet certain coverage requirements specified in
its mortgage indenture and corporate charter to issue new first mortgage bonds
and preferred stock. The Company's ability to satisfy all coverage requirements
is such that it could issue new first mortgage bonds and preferred stock to
provide sufficient funds for all anticipated requirements.

Environmental Issues

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- is having a
significant impact on the operating companies of Southern Company, including
Georgia Power. Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide
emissions from fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase
I compliance began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating units in the
Southern electric system. As a result of Southern Company's compliance strategy,
an additional 22 generating units were brought into compliance with Phase I
requirements. Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired
generating plants in the Southern electric system will be affected.



                                      II-102



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    In 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began issuing annual
sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the allowance trading program. An
emission allowance is the authority to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a
calendar year. The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to
minimize the cost of compliance. Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to use allowances as a compliance option.

    Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
units by switching to low-sulfur coal, which has required some equipment
upgrades. This compliance strategy resulted in unused emission allowances being
banked for later use. Construction expenditures for Georgia Power's Phase I
compliance totaled approximately $163 million.

    For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired units as required
to meet Phase II limits. Therefore, current compliance strategy could require
total Phase II estimated construction expenditures, for the Company, of
approximately $29 million of which $21 million remains to be spent. However, the
full impact of Phase II compliance cannot now be determined with certainty,
pending the continuing development of a market for emission allowances, the
completion of EPA regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction
technologies.

    An increase of up to 1 percent in Georgia Power's annual revenue
requirements from customers could be necessary to fully recover the cost of
compliance for both Phase I and Phase II of Title IV of the Clean Air Act.
Compliance costs include construction expenditures, increased costs for
switching to low-sulfur coal, and costs related to emission allowances.

    A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

    The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various matters including: revisions to the ambient air quality
standards for ozone and particulate matter; emission control strategies for
ozone nonattainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant
emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.

    The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations, the Company could incur costs to clean up properties currently or
previously owned. The Company conducts studies to determine the extent of any
required clean-up costs and has recognized in the financial statements costs to
clean up known sites. These costs for the Company amounted to $2 million, $8
million and $8 million, in 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. Additional sites
may require environmental remediation for which the Company may be liable for a
portion of or all required clean-up costs. See Note 3 to the financial
statements under "Certain Environmental Contingencies" for information regarding
the Company's potentially responsible party status at a site in Brunswick,
Georgia and the status of sites listed on the State of Georgia's hazardous site
inventory.

    Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of the Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

    Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields and other environmental and health concerns could
significantly affect the Company. The impact of new legislation -- if any --
will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable
regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the result of
lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.


                                      II-103






                                      II-104

 




                                      II-105





                                      II-106





                                      II-107

  




                                      II-108









                                      II-109


NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

General

The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is the
parent company of five operating companies, Southern Company Services (SCS), a
system service company, Southern Communications Services (Southern
Communications), Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear
Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), The Southern Development and Investment
Group (Southern Development), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The
operating companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power
Company, Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah Electric and Power Company)
provide electric service in four Southeastern states. Contracts among the
operating companies -- dealing with jointly owned generating facilities,
interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power -- are
regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC). SCS provides, at cost, specialized services to
Southern Company and subsidiary companies. Southern Communications provides
digital wireless communications services to the operating companies and also
markets these services to the public within the Southeast. Southern Energy
designs, builds, owns, and operates power production and delivery facilities and
provides a broad range of energy related services in the United States and
international markets. Southern Nuclear provides services to Southern Company's
nuclear power plants. Southern Development develops new business opportunities
related to energy products and services.

    Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to the regulatory provisions of this act. The Company is also
subject to regulation by the FERC and the Georgia Public Service Commission
(GPSC). The Company follows generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the respective
regulatory commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with GAAP requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may differ from
these estimates.

    Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the Company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are to be credited to
customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Company's Balance Sheets at December 31 relate to the
following:

                                            1996       1995
                                          --------------------
                                             (in millions)
                                          --------------------
Deferred income taxes                     $   818    $   872
Deferred income tax credits                  (382)      (410)
Deferred Plant Vogtle costs                   171        308
Premium on reacquired debt                    167        174
Corporate building lease                       51         49
Demand-side program costs                      44         79
Vacation pay                                   40         36
Postretirement benefits                        38         53
Department of Energy assessments               32         33
Inventory conversions                         (18)       (31)
Other, net                                     27         36
==============================================================
Total                                     $   988     $1,199
==============================================================

    In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer subject
to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the Company would be required to write
off related regulatory assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company would be
required to determine any impairment to other assets, including plant, and write
down the assets, if impaired, to their fair value.


                                      II-110

 
NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report


Revenues and Fuel Costs

The Company accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period. Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The Company's
electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
and the energy component of purchased power costs. Revenues are adjusted for
differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts actually recovered in
current rates.

    The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or
industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1996, uncollectible
accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.

    Fuel expense includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear fuel and a
charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear
fuel. Total charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted to $78
million in 1996, $86 million in 1995, and $87 million in 1994. The Company has a
contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that provides for the
permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which was scheduled to begin in 1998.
However, the actual year this service will begin is uncertain. Sufficient
storage capacity currently is available to permit operation into 2003 at Plant
Hatch and into 2008 at Plant Vogtle. Activities for adding dry cast storage
capacity at Plant Hatch by as early as 1999 are in progress.

    Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the establishment in 1993 of a
Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is to be
funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants. This
fund will be used by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. The assessment will be paid over a 15-year
period, which began in 1993. The law provides that utilities will recover these
payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense. The Company -- based on
its ownership interests -- estimates its remaining liability under this law at
December 31, 1996, to be approximately $30 million. This obligation is recorded
in the accompanying Balance Sheets.

Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.1 percent in 1996, 3.2 percent in 1995 and 3.1 percent in 1994. In addition,
the Company recorded accelerated depreciation of electric plant of $24 million
in 1996 and $6 million in 1995. The amount of such charges in the accumulated
provision for depreciation is $30 million at December 31, 1996. When property
subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course
of business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected costs
of decommissioning nuclear facilities and removal of other facilities.

    In 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) adopted regulations
requiring all licensees operating commercial nuclear power reactors to establish
a plan for providing, with reasonable assurance, funds for decommissioning. The
Company has established external trust funds to comply with the NRC's
regulations. Amounts previously recorded in internal reserves are being
transferred into the external trust funds over a set period of time as ordered
by the GPSC. Earnings on the trust funds are considered in determining
decommissioning expense. The NRC's minimum external funding requirements are
based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission the radioactive portions
of a nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor. The Company has filed
plans with the NRC to ensure that -- over time -- the deposits and earnings of
the external trust funds will provide the minimum funding amounts prescribed by
the NRC.

    Site study cost is the estimate to decommission the facility as of the site
study year, and ultimate cost is the estimate to decommission the facility as of
the retirement


                                      II-111


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report


date. The estimated costs of decommissioning -- both site study costs and
ultimate costs at December 31, 1996 -- based on the Company's ownership
interests -- were as follows:

                                           Plant      Plant
                                           Hatch     Vogtle
                                        --------------------
Site study basis (year)                     1994       1994

Decommissioning periods:
   Beginning year                           2014       2027
   Completion year                          2027       2038
- ------------------------------------------------------------
                                           (in millions)
Site study costs:
   Radiated structures                      $294       $233
   Non-radiated structures                    41         52
============================================================
Total                                       $335       $285
============================================================
                                           (in millions)
Ultimate costs:
   Radiated structures                      $781     $1,018
   Non-radiated structures                   111        230
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $892     $1,248
============================================================

                                           (in millions)
Amount expensed in 1996                    $  11     $   9

Accumulated provisions:
   Balance in external trust funds         $  79     $  51
   Balance in internal reserves               27        13
============================================================
Total                                       $106     $  64
============================================================

Significant assumptions:
   Inflation rate                           4.4%      4.4%
   Trust earnings rate                      6.0       6.0
- ------------------------------------------------------------

    Annual provisions for nuclear decommissioning are based on an annuity method
as approved by the GPSC. The decommissioning costs included in cost of service
are based on the higher of the costs to decommission the radioactive portions of
the plants based on 1994 site studies or the NRC minimum funding requirements.
The Company expects the GPSC to periodically review and adjust, if necessary,
the amounts collected in rates for the anticipated cost of decommissioning.

    The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service. The actual decommissioning costs may vary
from the above estimates because of changes in the assumed date of
decommissioning, changes in NRC requirements, changes in the assumptions used in
making estimates, changes in regulatory requirements, changes in technology, and
changes in costs of labor, materials, and equipment.

Income Taxes

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes
and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax temporary
differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and amortized to
income over the average lives of the related property.

Plant Vogtle Phase-In Plans

In 1987 and 1989, the GPSC ordered that the allowed costs of Plant Vogtle, a
two-unit nuclear facility of which Georgia Power owns 45.7 percent, be phased
into rates. Pursuant to the orders, the Company recorded a deferred return under
phase-in plans until October 1991 when the allowed investment was fully
reflected in rates. In 1991, the GPSC levelized the remaining Plant Vogtle
declining capacity buyback expenses over a six-year period. In addition, the
Company deferred certain Plant Vogtle operating expenses and financing costs
under accounting orders issued by the GPSC. These GPSC orders provide for the
recovery of deferred costs within 10 years.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. For the years 1996, 1995 and 1994, the average AFUDC rates
were 6.59 percent, 6.53 percent and 6.18 percent, respectively. AFUDC, net of
taxes, as a percentage of net income after dividends on preferred stock, was
less than 2.5 percent for 1996, 1995, and 1994.

                                      II-112


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost with the exception of Plant Vogtle,
which is stated at cost less regulatory disallowances. Original cost includes:
materials; labor; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other
benefits; and the cost of funds used during construction. The cost of
maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to
maintenance expense. The cost of replacements of property (exclusive of minor
items of property) is charged to utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

Financial Instruments

The Company's financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not
approximate fair value at December 31 were as follows:

                                       Carrying        Fair
                                        Amount        Value
                                     --------------------------
Long-term debt:                            (in millions)
     At December 31, 1996                $3,174       $3,206
     At December 31, 1995                 3,378        3,487
Preferred Securities:
     At December 31, 1996                   325          333
     At December 31, 1995                   100          114
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

    The fair values for securities were based on either closing market prices or
closing prices of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission, distribution
and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when
purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed,
non-contributory pension plan covering substantially all regular employees.
Benefits are based on one of the following formulas: years of service and final
average pay or years of service and a flat-dollar benefit. The Company uses the
"entry age normal method with a frozen initial liability" actuarial method for
funding purposes, subject to limitations under federal income tax regulations.
Amounts funded to the pension trusts are primarily invested in equity and
fixed-income securities. FASB Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for
Pensions, requires use of the "projected unit credit" actuarial method for
financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

The Company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. Qualified trusts are funded to the extent deductible
under federal income tax regulations and to the extent required by the GPSC and
the FERC. During 1996 and 1995, the Company funded $25 million and $21 million,
respectively, to the qualified trusts. Amounts funded are primarily invested in
debt and equity securities.

    FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." In October 1993, the GPSC ordered
the Company to phase in the adoption of Statement No. 106 to cost of service
over a five-year period, whereby one-fifth of the additional cost was expensed
in 1993, and the remaining additional costs were deferred. An additional
one-fifth of the costs will be expensed each succeeding year until the costs are
fully reflected in cost of service in 1997. The cost deferred during the
five-year period will be amortized to expense over a 15-year period beginning in
1998.


                                      II-113


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The following tables show actuarial results and assumptions for pension and
postretirement benefits as computed under the requirements of FASB Statement
Nos. 87 and 106, respectively. The funded status of the plans at December 31 was
as follows:

                                                Pension
                                          ---------------------
                                             1996       1995
                                          ---------------------
                                             (in millions)
                                          ---------------------
Actuarial present value of
 benefit obligations:
     Vested benefits                      $     806  $     830
     Non-vested benefits                         52         43

- --------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                  858        873
Additional amounts related
   to projected salary increases                314        290
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation                  1,172      1,163
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                  1,797      1,688
   Unrecognized net gain                       (591)      (465)
   Unrecognized prior service cost               56         26
   Unrecognized transition asset                (47)       (52)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid asset recognized in
   the Balance Sheets                     $      43  $      34
===============================================================


                                              Postretirement
                                                Benefits
                                          ---------------------
                                             1996       1995
                                          ---------------------
                                             (in millions)
Actuarial present value of
 benefit obligation:
     Retirees and dependents                   $217       $214
     Employees eligible to retire                29         16
     Other employees                            184        188
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                  430        418
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                    112         81
   Unrecognized net loss                         50         44
   Unrecognized transition
     obligation                                 157        186
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liability recognized in the            
   Balance Sheets                              $111      $ 107
===============================================================

    In 1995, the Company announced a cost sharing program for postretirement
benefits. The program establishes limits on amounts the Company will pay to
provide future retiree postretirement benefits. This change reduced the 1995
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $97 million.

    The weighted average rates used in actuarial calculations were:

                                   1996       1995       1994
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Discount                           7.8%       7.3%       8.0%
Annual salary increase             5.3        4.8        5.5
Long-term return on
   plan assets                     8.5        8.5        8.5
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

    An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
medical benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate
of 9.3 percent for 1996, decreasing gradually to 5.8 percent through the year
2005 and remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed
medical care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation as of December 31, 1996, by $42 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net postretirement cost by $4
million.

    The components of the plans' net costs are shown below:

                                               Pension
                                     ----------------------------
                                       1996      1995      1994
                                     ----------------------------
                                            (in millions)
Benefits earned during the year       $  35    $  33     $  34
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation                    86       78        71
Actual (return) loss on plan assets    (202)    (317)       35
Net amortization (deferral)              62      185      (160)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension cost                      $ (19)   $ (21)    $ (20)
=================================================================

    Net pension costs were negative in 1996, 1995 and 1994. Of net pension
amounts recorded, $14 million in 1996 and $15 million in 1995 and 1994 were
recorded as a reduction to operating expense, and the remainder was recorded as
a reduction to construction and other accounts.

                                     II-114


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                       Postretirement Benefits
                                        1996    1995     1994
                                      -------------------------
                                           (in millions)
Benefits earned during the year        $  9     $13      $15
Interest cost on accumulated
   benefit obligation                    30      34       33
Amortization of transition
   obligation                             9      16       15
Actual (return) loss on plan
   assets                                (6)     (8)       1
Net amortization (deferral)               3       4       (3)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement cost                 $45     $59      $61
===============================================================

    Of the above net postretirement benefit costs recorded, $29 million in 1996,
$33 million in 1995, and $28 million in 1994 were charged to operating expenses.
In addition, $3 million in 1996, $11 million in 1995, and $18 million in 1994
were deferred, and the remainder was charged to construction and other accounts.
During 1996, the Company expensed an additional $19 million due to an adjustment
to amounts previously deferred under the GPSC order as a result of changes in
the postretirement benefit plan.

Work Force Reduction Programs

The Company has incurred costs for work force reduction programs. The costs
related to these programs were $39 million in 1996, $11 million in 1995 and $82
million in 1994. Additionally, the Company recognized $9 million in 1996, $3
million in 1995, and $8 million in 1994 for its share of costs associated with
SCS's work force reduction programs.

3. REGULATORY AND LITIGATION MATTERS

Retail Accounting Order

On February 16, 1996, the GPSC approved a three-year accounting order for the
Company. Under the order, effective January 1, 1996, the Company's earnings are
evaluated against a retail return on common equity range of 10 percent to 12.5
percent. Earnings in excess of 12.5 percent will be used to accelerate the
amortization of regulatory assets or depreciation of electric plant. At its
option, the Company may also recognize accelerated amortization or depreciation
of assets within the allowed return on common equity range. The Company is
required to absorb cost increases of approximately $29 million annually during
the order's three-year operation, including $14 million annually of accelerated
depreciation of electric plant. During the order's operation, the Company will
not file for a general base rate increase unless its projected retail return on
common equity falls below 10 percent. Under the approved order, on July 1, 1998
the Company will make a general rate case filing in response to which the GPSC
would be expected either to continue the provisions of the accounting order or
adopt different ones. The Company's 1996 retail return on common equity was
within the 10 percent to 12.5 percent range.

    In November 1996, on appeal by a consumer group, the Superior Court of
Fulton County, Georgia, reversed the GPSC's accounting order and remanded the
matter to the GPSC. The Court found that statutory requirements applicable to
rate cases should have been, but were not, followed. The GPSC subsequently
appealed the Superior Court's decision. In December 1996, the Company also filed
for an appeal. The Company is continuing to recognize expenses in accordance
with the accounting order while it is under appeal.

Rocky Mountain Plant Status

In its 1985 financing order, the GPSC concluded that completion of the Rocky
Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric plant in 1991, as then planned, was not
economically justifiable and reasonable and withheld authorization for the
Company to spend funds from approved securities issuances on that plant. AFUDC
accrued on the Rocky Mountain plant was not credited to income or included in
the plant's cost since December 1985. In 1988, the Company and OPC entered into
a joint ownership agreement for OPC to assume responsibility for the
construction and operation of the plant, as discussed in Note 6. In 1995, the
plant went into commercial operation. However, full recovery of the Company's
25.4 percent ownership interest depends on the GPSC's treatment of the plant's
costs and disposition of the plant's capacity output. In June 1996, the GPSC
initiated a review of the Rocky Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric plant. In
the event the GPSC does not allow full recovery of the plant's costs, then the
portion not allowed may have to be written off. At December 31, 1996, the
Company's net investment in the plant was approximately $175 million.

    The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined. Accordingly, no
provision for any write-down of the investment in the plant has been made.



                                      II-115


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Demand-Side Conservation Programs

In October 1993, a Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, judge ruled that
rate riders previously approved by the GPSC for recovery of the Company's costs
incurred in connection with demand-side conservation programs were unlawful. The
Company suspended collection of the demand-side conservation costs and appealed
the court's decision to the Georgia Court of Appeals. The Company deferred costs
related to these programs under an accounting order approved by the GPSC until
December 1994, when the Company resumed collection under the rate riders after
the Georgia Court of Appeals upheld their legality. In August 1995, the GPSC
ordered the Company to discontinue its current demand-side conservation programs
by the end of 1995. The rate riders will remain in effect until costs deferred
are collected, which is expected to be by the end of 1997.

    Under the Retail Accounting Order approved February 16, 1996, the Company
will recognize approximately $29 million of deferred program costs over a
three-year period which will not be recovered through the riders.

FERC Review of Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power, and other similar contracts.

    In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

    In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on
substantially the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a
FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to
meet its burden of proof, and therefore no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter remains pending before the FERC.

    If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings, as well
as certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in determining
return on common equity and if refunds were ordered, the amount of refunds could
range up to approximately $61 million at December 31, 1996. However, management
believes that rates are not excessive, and that refunds are not justified.

Certain Environmental Contingencies

In January 1995, the Company and four other unrelated entities were notified by
the EPA that they have been designated as potentially responsible parties under
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act with
respect to a site in Brunswick, Georgia. As of December 31, 1996, the Company
has recognized approximately $5 million in expenses associated with this site.
This represents the Company's agreed upon share of removal and remedial
investigation and feasibility study costs. The final outcome of this matter
cannot now be determined. However, based on the nature and extent of the
Company's activities relating to the site, management believes that the
Company's portion of any remaining remediation costs should not be material.

    In compliance with the Georgia Hazardous Site Response Act of 1993, the
State of Georgia was required to compile an inventory of all known or suspected
sites where hazardous wastes, constituents or substances have been disposed of
or released in quantities deemed reportable by the State. In developing this
list, the State identified several hundred properties throughout the State,
including 25 sites which may require environmental remediation that were either
previously or are currently owned by the Company. The majority of these sites
are electrical power substations and power generation facilities. The Company
has remediated seven electrical substations on the list at a cost of
approximately $1 million. In addition, the Company has recognized approximately
$16 million in expenses through December 31, 1996 for the assessment of the
remaining sites on the list and the anticipated clean-up cost for 13 sites that
the Company plans to remediate. The accrued costs for environmental remediation
obligations are not discounted to their present value. Any cost of remediating


                                      II-116


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

the remaining sites cannot presently be determined until such studies are
completed for each site and the State of Georgia determines whether remediation
is required. If all listed sites were required to be remediated, the Company
could incur expenses of up to approximately $15 million in additional clean-up
costs and construction expenditures of up to approximately $65 million to
develop new waste management facilities or install additional pollution control
devices.

Wholesale Litigation

In July 1994, Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC) and the Municipal Electric
Authority of Georgia (MEAG) filed a joint complaint with the FERC seeking to
recover from the Company an aggregate of approximately $16.5 million in alleged
partial requirements rates overcharges, plus approximately $6.3 million in
interest. OPC and MEAG claimed that the Company improperly reflected in such
rates costs associated with capacity that had previously been sold to Gulf
States pursuant to a unit power sales contract or, alternatively, that they
should be allocated a portion of the proceeds received by the Company as a
result of a settlement with Gulf States of litigation arising out of such
contract. In November 1996, the Company reached a settlement with OPC, MEAG and
the City of Dalton to pay the parties an aggregate of $14 million. The
settlement has been approved by the FERC.

    In May 1996, MEAG filed a complaint with the FERC seeking termination as of
December 31, 1996 of the partial requirements tariff pursuant to which the
Company currently sells wholesale energy to MEAG. The complaint also sought
refunds in an unspecified amount as a result of alleged overcharges by the
Company under the tariff for the years 1993 through 1996. In June 1996, the
Company filed a response with the FERC requesting that its partial requirements
service obligation to MEAG be terminated as of the date sought by MEAG. On
January 10, 1997, the Company and MEAG reached an agreement to enter into a new
power supply relationship which would replace in their entirety the partial
requirements tariff and the scheduling services agreement between the Company
and MEAG. The agreement required the parties to formalize a new contractual
relationship and within approximately 45 days file the new contract with the
FERC for approval. Under the agreement, the Company does not owe MEAG any
refunds for alleged overcharges for the years specified.

Nuclear Performance Standards

In October 1989, the GPSC adopted a nuclear performance standard for the
Company's nuclear generating units under which the performance of plants Hatch
and Vogtle will be evaluated every three years. The performance standard is
based on each unit's capacity factor as compared to the average of all
comparable U.S. nuclear units operating at a capacity factor of 50 percent or
higher during the three-year period of evaluation. Depending on the performance
of the units, the Company could receive a monetary reward or penalty under the
performance standards criteria.

    The first evaluation was conducted in 1993 for performance during the
1990-92 period. The GPSC approved a performance reward of approximately $8.5
million for the Company. This reward was collected through the retail fuel cost
recovery provision and recognized in income over a 36-month period which ended
in October 1996. In January 1997, the GPSC approved a performance award of
approximately $11.7 million for performance during the 1993-95 period. This
reward will be collected through the retail fuel cost recovery provision and
recognized in income over a 36-month period beginning January 1997.

4.  COMMITMENTS

Construction Program

While the Company has no traditional baseload generating plants under
construction, the construction of one jointly owned combustion turbine peaking
unit was completed in January 1997. In addition, significant construction of
transmission and distribution facilities, and projects to upgrade and extend the
useful life of generating plants will continue. The Company currently estimates
property additions to be approximately $490 million in 1997, $479 million in
1998, and $464 million in 1999. The estimates for property additions for the
three-year period include $31 million committed to meeting the requirements of
the Clean Air Act.

    The construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and
actual construction costs may vary from estimates because of numerous factors,
including, but not limited to, changes in business conditions, load growth
estimates, environmental regulations, and regulatory requirements.



                                      II-117

 
NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Fuel Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of
fossil and nuclear fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
price escalations, minimum purchase levels and other financial commitments.
Total estimated long-term fossil and nuclear fuel commitments at December 31,
1996 were as follows:

                                                Minimum
Year                                          Obligations
                                         ----------------------
                                             (in millions)
1997                                            $   833
1998                                                679
1999                                                512
2000                                                423
2001                                                358
2002 and beyond                                   1,722
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total minimum obligations                       $ 4,527
===============================================================

    Additional commitments for coal and for nuclear fuel will be required in the
future to supply the Company's fuel needs.

Purchase Power Commitments

In connection with the joint ownership arrangement for Plant Vogtle, discussed
in Note 6, the Company has made commitments to purchase declining fractions of
OPC's and MEAG's capacity and energy from this plant. The declining commitments
were in effect during periods of up to seven years following commercial
operation and ended in 1996. The commitments regarding a portion of a 5 percent
interest in Plant Vogtle owned by MEAG are in effect until the latter of the
retirement of the plant or the latest stated maturity date of MEAG's bonds
issued to finance such ownership interest. The payments for capacity are
required whether or not any capacity is available. The energy cost is a function
of each unit's variable operating costs. Except as noted below, the cost of such
capacity and energy is included in purchased power from non-affiliates in the
Company's Statements of Income. Capacity payments totaled $68 million, $76
million, and $129 million in 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. The current
projected Plant Vogtle capacity payments are:

Year                                            Amounts
                                         ----------------------
                                             (in millions)
1997                                            $    58
1998                                                 60
1999                                                 62
2000                                                 63
2001                                                 62
2002 and beyond                                     858
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           $ 1,163
==============================================================

    Portions of the payments noted above relate to costs in excess of Plant
Vogtle's allowed investment for ratemaking purposes. The present value of these
portions was written off in 1987 and 1990.

    As discussed in Note 1, the Plant Vogtle declining capacity buyback expense
is being levelized over a six-year period which began in October 1991.

    The Company and an affiliate, Alabama Power Company, own equally all of the
outstanding capital stock of Southern Electric Generating Company (SEGCO), which
owns electric generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020 megawatts,
as well as associated transmission facilities. The capacity of the units has
been sold equally to the Company and Alabama Power under a contract which, in
substance, requires payments sufficient to provide for the operating expenses,
taxes, debt service and return on investment, whether or not SEGCO has any
capacity and energy available. The term of the contract extends automatically
for two-year periods, subject to either party's right to cancel upon two year's
notice. The Company's share of expenses included in purchased power from
affiliates in the Statements of Income, is as follows:

                                1996       1995       1994
                             ---------------------------------
                                     (in millions)
Energy                           $47         $44        $43
Capacity                          30          29         33
- --------------------------------------------------------------
Total                            $77         $73        $76
==============================================================
Kilowatt-hours                 2,780       2,391      2,429
- --------------------------------------------------------------


                                      II-118


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    At December 31, 1996, the capitalization of SEGCO consisted of $52 million
of equity and $76 million of long-term debt on which the annual interest
requirement is $5 million.

    The Company has entered into a 30-year purchase power agreement, scheduled
to begin in June 1998, for electricity during peaking periods from a planned 300
megawatt cogeneration facility. Capacity and fixed operation and maintenance
(O&M) payments are subject to reductions for failure to meet minimum capacity
output. Estimated capacity and fixed O&M payments are as follows:

Year                                            Amounts
                                         ----------------------
                                             (in millions)
1998                                             $  13
1999                                                15
2000                                                15
2001                                                15
2002 and beyond                                    320
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                            $ 378
===============================================================

Operating Leases

The Company has entered into coal rail car rental agreements with various terms
and expiration dates. These expenses totaled $11 million, $12 million, and $13
million for 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. At December 31, 1996, estimated
minimum rental commitments for these noncancelable operating leases were as
follows:

Year                                            Amounts
                                         ----------------------
                                             (in millions)
1997                                             $  11
1998                                                10
1999                                                10
2000                                                10
2001                                                10
2002 and beyond                                    121
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                            $ 172
===============================================================

5.  NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988, the Company maintains
agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private insurance,
cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident occurring at the
Company's nuclear power plants. The act provides funds up to $8.9 billion for
public liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear incident. Each
nuclear plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of $200 million by
private insurance, with the remaining coverage provided by a mandatory program
of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against
all owners of nuclear reactors. The Company could be assessed up to $79 million
per incident for each licensed reactor it operates but not more than an
aggregate of $10 million per incident to be paid in a calendar year for each
reactor. Such maximum assessment for the Company, excluding any applicable state
premium taxes, -- based on its ownership and buyback interests -- is $162
million per incident but not more than an aggregate of $20 million to be paid
for each incident in any one year.

    The Company is a member of Nuclear Mutual Limited (NML), a mutual insurer
established to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500 million
for members' nuclear generating facilities. The members are subject to a
retrospective premium assessment in the event that losses exceed accumulated
reserve funds. The Company's maximum annual assessment is limited to $11 million
under current policies.

    Additionally, the Company has policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million NML
coverage. This excess insurance is provided by Nuclear Electric Insurance
Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company.

    NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant. Members can be insured against increased costs of replacement power in an
amount up to $3.5 million per week -- starting 21 weeks after the outage -- for
one year and up to $2.8 million per week for the second and third years.

    Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if
losses each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under
that policy. The maximum annual assessments under the current policies for the
Company would be $16 million for excess property damage and $12 million for
replacement power.


                                      II-119


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole purpose
of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an accident. Any
remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of decontamination
and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and any further remaining
proceeds are to be paid either to the Company or to its bond trustees as may be
appropriate under the policies and applicable trust indentures.

    The Company participates in an insurance program for nuclear workers that
provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused at
commercial nuclear power plants. In the event that claims for this insurance
exceed the accumulated reserve funds, the Company could be subject to a maximum
total assessment of $6 million.

    All retrospective assessments, whether generated for liability, property or
replacement power, may be subject to applicable state premium taxes.

6.  FACILITY SALES AND JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

The Company has sold undivided interests in plants Hatch, Wansley, Vogtle, and
Scherer Units 1 and 2, together with transmission facilities, to OPC, an
electric membership generation and transmission corporation; MEAG, a public
corporation and an instrumentality of the state of Georgia; and the City of
Dalton, Georgia. The Company has sold an interest in Plant Scherer Unit 3 to
Gulf Power Company, an affiliate. Additionally, in 1995 the Company completed
the last of four separate transactions to sell Unit 4 of Plant Scherer to
Florida Power & Light Company (FP&L) and Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA)
for a total price of approximately $808 million. FP&L now owns approximately
76.4 percent of the unit, with JEA owning the remainder.


    The Scherer Unit 4 transactions were as follows:

  Closing                   Percent                After-Tax
    Date       Capacity    Ownership     Amount       Gain
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
           (in megawatts)                   (in millions)

July 1991         290         35.46%      $ 291       $ 14
June 1993         258         31.44         253         18
June 1994         135         16.55         133         11
June 1995         135         16.55         131         12
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total             818        100.00%      $ 808       $ 55
===============================================================

    Except as otherwise noted, the Company has contracted to operate and
maintain all jointly owned facilities. The Company includes its proportionate
share of plant operating expenses in the corresponding operating expenses in the
Statements of Income.

    As discussed in Note 3, the Company owns 25.4 percent of the Rocky Mountain
pumped storage hydroelectric plant, which began commercial operation in 1995.
OPC owns the remainder, and is the operator of the plant.

    The Company owns six of eight 80 megawatt combustion turbine generating
units and 75 percent of the related common facilities at Plant McIntosh.
Savannah Electric and Power Company, an affiliate, owns the remainder and
operates the plant. Four of the Company's six units began commercial operation
during 1994, and the remaining two units began commercial operation in 1995.

    The Company and Florida Power Corporation (FPC) jointly own a 150 megawatt
combustion turbine unit at Intercession City, Florida, near Orlando. The unit
began commercial operation in January 1997, and is operated by FPC. The Company
owns a one-third interest in the unit, with use of 100 percent of the unit's
capacity from June through September. FPC has the capacity the remainder of the
year. The Company's investment in the unit is approximately $13 million.

    At December 31, 1996, the Company's percentage ownership and investment
(exclusive of nuclear fuel) in


                                      II-120


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report


jointly owned facilities in commercial operation, were as follows:

                                      Total
                                    Nameplate        Company
Facility (Type)                     Capacity        Ownership
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                     (megawatts)
Plant Vogtle (nuclear)                 2,320            45.7%
Plant Hatch (nuclear)                  1,630            50.1
Plant Wansley (coal)                   1,779            53.5
Plant Scherer (coal)
   Units 1 and 2                       1,636             8.4
   Unit 3                                818            75.0
Plant McIntosh
   Common Facilities                     N/A            75.0
       (combustion-turbine)
Rocky Mountain                           848            25.4
       (pumped storage)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

                                                   Accumulated
  Facility (Type)                  Investment     Depreciation
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                         (in millions)
  Plant Vogtle (nuclear)              $3,299*          $843
  Plant Hatch (nuclear)                  854            436
  Plant Wansley (coal)                   301            134
  Plant Scherer (coal)
     Units 1 and 2                       112             42
     Unit 3                              542            150
  Plant McIntosh
   Common Facilities
       (combustion-turbine)               19              1
  Rocky Mountain
            (pumped storage)             202             27
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

     * Investment net of write-offs.

7.  LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

The Company and the operating subsidiaries of Southern Company have long-term
contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to non-affiliated
utilities located outside the system's service area. These agreements consist of
firm unit power sales pertaining to capacity from specific generating units. The
Company also had agreements for non-firm sales, which expired in 1994, based on
the capacity of the Southern system. Because energy is generally sold at cost
under these agreements, it is primarily the capacity revenues that affect the
Company's profitability.

    The Company's capacity revenues were as follows:

Year          Unit Power Sales             Non-firm Sales
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
        (in millions) (megawatts)    (in millions) (megawatts)
1996         $  41           173           $  -             -
1995            53           248              -             -
1994            75           403              9           101
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

    Unit power from specific generating plants is being sold to FP&L, FPC, JEA,
and the City of Tallahassee, Florida. Under these agreements, the Company sold
approximately 173 megawatts of capacity in 1996 and is scheduled to sell
approximately 159 megawatts of capacity in 1997 through 1999, and in 2000, 126
megawatts will be sold. After 2000, capacity sales will decline to approximately
103 megawatts -- unless reduced by FP&L, FPC, and JEA -- until the expiration of
the contracts in 2010.

    Long-term non-firm power of 200 megawatts was sold by the Southern system in
1994 to FPC, of which the Company's share was 101 megawatts, under a contract
that expired at the end of 1994. Sales under these long-term non-firm power
sales agreements were made from available power pool energy, and the revenues
from the sales were shared by the operating affiliates.

8.  INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1996, tax-related regulatory assets were $818 million and
tax-related regulatory liabilities were $382 million. The assets are
attributable to tax benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to
taxes applicable to capitalized AFUDC. The liabilities are attributable to
deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax
law and to unamortized investment tax credits.


                                      II-121


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report


   Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:

                                     1996      1995      1994
                                  -------------------------------
Total provision for income taxes:          (in millions)
Federal:
   Currently payable                $ 325       $349      $306
   Deferred -
     Current year                      70         84        86
     Reversal of prior years          (41)       (55)      (57)
   Deferred investment tax
     credits                            -          1        (1)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                      354        379       334
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
State:
   Currently payable                   56         60        52
   Deferred -
     Current year                      12         15        15
     Reversal of prior years           (5)        (8)      (10)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                       63         67        57
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                 417        446       391
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Less:
   Income taxes credited
     to other income                  (19)        (3)       (8)
=================================================================
Total income taxes
   charged to operations            $ 436       $449      $399
=================================================================

    The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:


                                               1996      1995
                                             -------------------
                                               (in millions)
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Accelerated depreciation                  $  1,736    $1,630
   Property basis differences                   1,038     1,074
   Deferred Plant Vogtle costs                     54       100
   Premium on reacquired debt                      67        70
   Deferred regulatory costs                       21        38
   Other                                           32        29
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           2,948     2,941
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Other property basis differences               225       239
   Federal effect of state deferred taxes         100        97
   Other deferred costs                            93        83
   Disallowed Plant Vogtle buybacks                24        25
   Accrued interest                                10        13
   Fuel clause overrecovered                        8         6
   Other                                           18        18
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                             478       481
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                    2,470     2,460
Portion included in current assets                 53        51
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income taxes
   in the Balance Sheets                     $  2,523    $2,511
================================================================

    Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $17 million in 1996, $22 million in 1995, and $25 million in 1994.
At December 31, 1996, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal
income taxes payable had been utilized.

    A reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate to the effective income
tax rate is as follows:

                                       1996    1995     1994
                                     -------------------------
Federal statutory rate                  35%     35%      35%
State income tax, net of
   federal deduction                     4       4        4
Non-deductible book
   depreciation                          3       2        3
Difference in prior years'
   deferred and current tax rate        (1)     (1)      (1)
Other                                   (1)      -        -
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate               40%     40%      41%
=============================================================


                                      II-122


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    Southern Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax
return. Under a joint consolidated income tax agreement, each subsidiary's
current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis. Tax
benefits from losses of the parent company are allocated to each subsidiary
based on the ratio of taxable income to total consolidated taxable income.

9.  CAPITALIZATION

First Mortgage Bond Indenture & Charter Restrictions

The Company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various restrictions that
remain in effect as long as the bonds are outstanding. At December 31, 1996,
$778 million of retained earnings and paid-in capital was unrestricted for the
payment of cash dividends or any other distributions under terms of the mortgage
indenture. Supplemental indentures in connection with future first mortgage bond
issues may contain more stringent restrictions than those currently in effect.

    The Company's charter limits cash dividends on common stock to the lesser of
the retained earnings balance or 75 percent of net income available for such
stock during a prior period of 12 months if the ratio of common stock equity to
total capitalization, including retained earnings, adjusted to reflect the
payment of the proposed dividend, is below 25 percent, and to 50 percent of such
net income if such ratio is less than 20 percent. At December 31, 1996, the
ratio as defined was 50.3 percent.

Preferred Securities

In December 1994, Georgia Power Capital, L.P., of which the Company is the sole
general partner, issued $100 million of 9 percent mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of Georgia Power Capital
are $103 million aggregate principal amount of Georgia Power's 9 percent Junior
Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due December 19, 2024. In August
1996, Georgia Power Capital Trust I (Trust I), of which the Company owns all the
common securities, issued $225 million of 7.75 percent mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of Trust I are $232
million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.75 percent Junior
Subordinated Notes due June 30, 2036. In January 1997, Georgia Power Capital
Trust II (Trust II), of which the Company owns all the common securities, issued
$175 million of 7.60 percent mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.
Substantially all of the assets of Trust II are $180 million aggregate principal
amount of the Company's 7.60 percent Junior Subordinated Notes due December 31,
2036.

    The Company considers that the mechanisms and obligations relating to the
preferred securities, taken together, constitute a full and unconditional
guarantee by the Company of Georgia Power Capital's and Georgia Power Capital
Trusts' payment obligations with respect to the preferred securities.

    Georgia Power Capital, L.P., Georgia Power Capital Trust I, and Georgia
Power Capital Trust II are subsidiaries of the Company, and accordingly are
consolidated in the Company's financial statements.

Pollution Control Bonds

The Company has incurred obligations in connection with the sale by public
authorities of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds. The Company has
authenticated and delivered to trustees an aggregate of $1.5 billion of its
first mortgage bonds, which are pledged as security for its obligations under
pollution control revenue contracts. No interest on these first mortgage bonds
is payable unless and until a default occurs on the installment purchase or loan
agreements. An aggregate of approximately $90 million of the pollution control
revenue bonds is secured by a subordinated interest in specific property of the
Company.

    Details of pollution control bonds are as follows:


                     Interest Rates        1996        1995
    Maturity
- --------------------------------------------------------------
                                            (in millions)
2000              4.375%                  $    50   $     50
2004-2006         5% to 6.75%                 143        145
2007-2011         6.375% to 6.40%              10         20
                        & Variable
2016              8%                            -         56
2017-2021         6% to 9.375%                235        287
2022-2026         5.40% to 6.75%
                       & Variable           1,233      1,120
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Total pollution control bonds             $ 1,671     $1,678
=============================================================


                                      II-123

 
NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Bank Credit Arrangements

At the beginning of 1997, the Company had unused credit arrangements with banks
totaling $1.1 billion, of which $629.4 million expires at various times during
1997, $48.7 million expires at May 1, 1999, and $400 million expires at June 30,
1999.

    The $400 million expiring June 30, 1999, is under revolving credit
arrangements with several banks providing the Company, Alabama Power Company,
and Southern Company up to a total credit amount of $400 million. To provide
liquidity support for commercial paper programs, $165 million, $135 million, and
$100 million are currently dedicated to the Company, Alabama Power Company, and
Southern Company, respectively. However, the allocations can be changed among
the borrowers by notifying the respective banks.

    During the term of the agreements expiring in 1999, short-term borrowings
may be converted into term loans, payable in 12 equal quarterly installments,
with the first installment due at the end of the first calendar quarter after
the applicable termination date or at an earlier date at the companies' option.
In addition, these agreements require payment of commitment fees based on the
unused portions of the commitments or the maintenance of compensating balances
with the banks.

    Of the Company's total $1.1 billion in unused credit arrangements, a portion
of the lines is dedicated to provide liquidity support to variable rate
pollution control bonds. The credit lines dedicated as of December 31, 1996,
were $589.7 million. In connection with all other lines of credit, the Company
has the option of paying fees or maintaining compensating balances. These
balances are not legally restricted from withdrawal.

    In addition, the Company borrows under uncommitted lines of credit with
banks and through a $225 million commercial paper program that has the liquidity
support of committed bank credit arrangements. Average compensating balances
held under these committed facilities were not material in 1996.

Other Long-Term Debt

Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded in the Balance Sheets as
utility plant in service, and the related obligations are classified as
long-term debt. At December 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company had a capitalized
lease obligation for its corporate headquarters building of $87 million with an
interest rate of 8.1 percent. The lease agreement provides for payments that are
minimal in early years and escalate through the first 21 years of the lease. For
ratemaking purposes, the GPSC has treated the lease as an operating lease and
has allowed only the lease payments in cost of service. The difference between
the accrued expense and the lease payments allowed for ratemaking purposes is
being deferred as a cost to be recovered in the future as ordered by the GPSC.
At December 31, 1996, and 1995, the interest and lease amortization deferred on
the Balance Sheets are $51 million and $49 million, respectively.

Assets Subject to Lien

The Company's mortgage dated as of March 1, 1941, as amended and supplemented,
securing the first mortgage bonds issued by the Company, constitutes a direct
lien on substantially all of the Company's fixed property and franchises.

Securities Due Within One Year

The current portion of the Company's long-term debt and preferred stock is as
follows:

                                                1996     1995
                                             -------------------
                                               (in millions)
First mortgage bonds                           $  61      $150
Preferred stock                                   49         -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          $ 110      $150
================================================================

    The Company's first mortgage bond indenture includes an improvement fund
requirement that amounts to 1 percent of each outstanding series of bonds
authenticated under the indenture prior to January 1 of each year, other than
those issued to collateralize pollution control obligations. The requirement may
be satisfied by June 1 of each year by depositing cash, reacquiring bonds, or by
pledging additional property equal to 1 2/3 times the requirement. The 1997
requirement was met in the first quarter of the year by depositing cash with the
trustee. These funds, along with cash deposited previously with the trustee to
satisfy the 1995 and 1996 improvement fund requirements, were used to redeem
bonds.


                                      II-124


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Redemption of Securities

The Company plans to continue a program of redeeming or replacing debt and
preferred stock in cases where opportunities exist to reduce financing costs.
Issues may be repurchased in the open market or called at premiums as specified
under terms of the issue. They may also be redeemed at face value to meet
improvement fund and sinking fund requirements, to meet replacement provisions
of the mortgage, or through use of proceeds from the sale of property pledged
under the mortgage. In general, for the first five years a series is
outstanding, the Company is prohibited from redeeming for improvement fund
purposes more than 1 percent annually of the original issue amount.

10. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Summarized quarterly financial information for 1996 and 1995 is as follows:

                                                      Net Income
                                                        After
                                                     Dividends on
                        Operating      Operating      Preferred
    Quarter Ended        Revenues       Income          Stock
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      (in millions)
                       --------------------------------------------
March 1996              $  1,029          $192          $ 114
June 1996                  1,134           233            154
September 1996             1,311           339            256
December 1996                943           122             56


March 1995              $    974          $207          $ 116
June 1995                  1,075           230            149
September 1995             1,374           337            245
December 1995                982           177             99
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

    Earnings in the fourth quarter of 1996, compared to the fourth quarter of
1995, declined primarily as a result of lower retail and wholesale revenues and
initiatives to reduce fossil generation materials inventory levels.

    The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions.


                                      II-125

 



                                      II-126





                                      II-127A





                                      II-127B






                                      II-127C





                                      II-128





                                      II-129A






                                      II-129B





                                      II-129C

 


                                     II-130




STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Georgia Power Company


                                    II-131A



STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Georgia Power Company



                                    II-131B



STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Georgia Power Company


( ) Denotes use of cash.

                                     II-132


STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Georgia Power Company


                                    II-133A

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Georgia Power Company

                                    II-133B



BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company


                                     II-134



BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company

                                    II-135A



BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company

                                    II-135B


BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company



                                     II-136
BALANCE SHEETS            
Georgia Power Company



BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company


                                 II-137B



                           GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
                   OUTSTANDING SECURITIES AT DECEMBER 31, 1996



                                     II-138

                              GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
             OUTSTANDING SECURITIES AT DECEMBER 31, 1996 (Continued)

                      Company Obligated Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred
                     Securities of Subsidiaries Substantially All of Whose
                      Assets Are Junior Subordinated Debentures or Notes



 (1)   Issued by Georgia Power Capital, L.P., and guaranteed to the extent
       Georgia Power Capital has funds by GEORGIA.
 (2)   Issued by Georgia Power Capital Trust I and guaranteed to the extent
       Georgia Power Capital Trust I has funds by GEORGIA.
 (3)   Issued in exchange for $5.00 preferred outstanding at the time of company
       formation.

                                     II-139


                              GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

                         SECURITIES RETIRED DURING 1996

                              First Mortgage Bonds
                                         Principal                     Interest
       Series                             Amount                         Rate
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         (Thousands)
        1992                               $    110                      8-5/8%
        1993                                150,000                      4-3/4%
        1993                                 21,750                      7.95%
        1993                                 16,000                      7-5/8%
        1993                                  5,000                      7-3/4%
        1993                                  5,000                      7.55%
        1995                                 13,000                      7.70%
                                           ========
                                           $210,860
                                           ========

                                    Pollution Control Bonds
                                         Principal                     Interest
       Series                             Amount                         Rate
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          (Thousands)
        1976                               $  1,920                      6-3/4%
        1977                                  1,940                      6.40%
        1978                                  8,060                      6-3/8%
        1986                                 56,400                      8%
        1991                                 51,345                      7.25%
                                           --------
                                           $119,665
                                           ========

                                       Preferred Stock
                                          Principal                   Dividend
       Series                              Amount                       Rate
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         (Thousands)
        1972                               $ 75,000                    $7.80
        1992                                    972                    $1.90
        1992                                    845                    $1.9875
        1992                                  1,243                    $1.9375
        1992                                  1,088                    $1.925
        1991                                100,000                    $2.125
                                           --------
                                           $179,148
                                           ========


                                     II-140













                               GULF POWER COMPANY

                               FINANCIAL SECTION


                                      II-141



MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

The management of Gulf Power Company has prepared -- and is responsible for --
the financial statements and related information included in this report. These
statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include amounts that
are based on the best estimates and judgments of management. Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

   The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The Company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

   The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff. The Company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

   The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of directors who are
not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial reporting and
control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with management, the
internal auditors, and the independent public accountants to ensure that these
groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss auditing, internal
controls, and financial reporting matters. The internal auditors and independent
public accountants have access to the members of the audit committee at any
time.

   Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

   In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows
of Gulf Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.

/s/ Travis J. Bowden
Travis J. Bowden
President and Chief Executive Officer


/s/ Arlan E. Scarbrough
Arlan E. Scarbrough
Chief Financial Officer

February 12, 1997


                                      II-142

  
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors of Gulf Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Gulf Power Company (a Maine corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of
Southern Company) as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related statements
of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1996. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-151 through II-167)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Gulf Power Company as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.



/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997



                                      II-143



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL 
CONDITION
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Gulf Power Company's 1996 net income after dividends on preferred stock was
$57.8 million, an increase of $0.6 million over the prior year. This improvement
is primarily attributable to higher retail revenues and lower costs related to
the work force reduction program implemented last year, offset somewhat by an
increase in other operating expenses.

   In 1995, earnings were $57.2 million, representing an increase of $2 million
compared to the prior year. Earnings in 1995 were significantly affected by
higher retail revenues due to exceptionally hot summer weather and lower
interest charges on long-term debt.

   The return on average common equity for 1996 and 1995 was 13.27 percent.

Revenues

Operating revenues increased in 1996 and 1995 as a result of the following
factors:

                                    Increase (Decrease)
                                      From Prior Year
                            -------------------------------------
                                 1996         1995        1994
                            -------------------------------------
                                        (in thousands)
Retail --
   Sales growth               $ 7,123      $ 3,647     $ 7,126
   Weather                     (1,057)       9,749      (4,631)
   Regulatory cost
     recovery and other         5,649       22,502       8,938
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total retail                   11,715       35,898      11,433
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Sales for resale--
   Non-affiliates               2,788       (5,698)     (6,098)
   Affiliates                    (857)       1,266      (5,813)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total sales for resale          1,931       (4,432)    (11,911)
Other operating
   revenues                     1,642        8,798      (3,851)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating
   revenues                   $15,288      $40,264     $(4,329)
=================================================================
Percent change                    2.5%         7.0%       (0.7)%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

   Retail revenues of $531 million in 1996 increased $11.7 million or 2.3
percent from last year, compared with an increase of 7.4 percent in 1995 and 2.4
percent in 1994. Residential and commercial revenues increased as a result of
customer growth in 1996. This increase was partially offset by milder summer
weather in 1996 compared to the hotter-than-normal summer weather of 1995.

   The increase in regulatory cost recovery and other retail revenues is
primarily attributable to the recovery of increased purchased power capacity
costs from affiliated companies. Regulatory cost recovery and other includes
recovery provisions for fuel expense and the energy component of purchased power
costs; energy conservation costs; purchased power capacity costs; and
environmental compliance costs. The recovery provisions equal the related
expenses and have no material effect on net income. See Notes 1 and 3 to the
financial statements under "Revenues and Regulatory Cost Recovery Clauses" and
"Environmental Cost Recovery," respectively, for further information.

   Sales for resale were $81 million in 1996, increasing $1.9 million or 2.4
percent from 1995. Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area
under long-term contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity
revenues reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under
the contracts. Energy is generally sold at variable cost. The capacity and
energy components under these long-term contracts were as follows:

                           1996         1995           1994
                    -----------------------------------------
                                   (in thousands)
Capacity                $25,400      $25,870        $30,926
Energy                   19,804       18,598         18,456
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Total                   $45,204      $44,468        $49,382
=============================================================

   Capacity revenues decreased in 1996 and 1995, primarily reflecting the
decline in net plant investment.

   Sales to affiliated companies vary from year to year depending on demand and
the availability and cost of generating resources at each company. These sales
have little impact on earnings.



                                      II-144



MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

   The increase in other operating revenues for 1996 and 1995 is primarily due
to increased amounts collected to recover newly-imposed county franchise fees.
These fees are included in taxes other than income taxes and thus, there is no
impact on earnings. Other changes for 1996 and 1995 are primarily attributable
to adjustments in the regulatory cost recovery clauses for differences between
recoverable costs and the amounts actually reflected in revenues. See Notes 1
and 3 to the financial statements under "Revenues and Regulatory Cost Recovery
Clauses" and "Environmental Cost Recovery," respectively, for further
discussion.

   Kilowatt-hour sales for 1996 and percent changes in sales since 1994 are
reported below.

                          KWH                Percent Change
                      ------------     ---------------------------
                         1996            1996     1995      1994
                      ------------     ---------------------------
                       (millions)
Residential                 4,160         3.6%     7.0%      1.1%
Commercial                  2,809         3.7      6.3       4.8
Industrial                  1,808         0.7     (2.8)     (9.0)
Other                          17         2.7     (0.1)        -
                      ------------
Total retail                8,794         3.0      4.5      (0.3)
Sales for resale
   Non-affiliates           1,534         9.9     (1.6)     (2.8)
   Affiliates                 710        (6.5)   (13.1)    (15.2)
                      ------------
Total                      11,038         3.3      2.2      (2.1)
==================================================================

   Retail sales increased in 1996 due to customer growth of 2.7 percent in the
residential class and 4.6 percent in the commercial class. The increase in
energy sales to the industrial class is a result of the Real-Time-Pricing
program. The price structure of this program has successfully encouraged
participating industrial customers to lower their peak demand requirements and
increase their purchases of energy during off-peak periods. See "Future Earnings
Potential" for information on the Company's initiatives to remain competitive
and to meet conservation goals set by the Florida Public Service Commission
(FPSC). In 1995, retail sales increased from the prior year due to hot summer
weather and an increase in residential and commercial customers. Industrial
sales were lower due to the reclassification of a major customer from the
industrial to commercial class and temporary production delays of other
industrial customers.

   In 1996, energy sales for resale to non-affiliates increased 9.9 percent and
are predominantly related to unit power sales under long-term contracts to other
Florida utilities and bulk power sales under short-term contracts to other
non-affiliated utilities.  Energy sales to affiliated companies vary from year
to year as mentioned previously.

Expenses

Total operating expenses for 1996 increased $12.7 million or 2.4 percent from
1995. The increase is due to higher purchased power expenses, other operation
expenses, depreciation expenses, and taxes. In 1995, total operating expenses
increased $41.3 million or 8.5 percent from 1994 primarily due to higher fuel
and purchased power expenses, maintenance expenses, and taxes other than income
taxes, offset by lower depreciation and amortization expenses.

   Fuel and purchased power expenses for 1996 increased $4 million or 1.8
percent from 1995. The change reflects the increase in purchased power from
affiliated companies due to scheduled maintenance outages at Plant Crist and
Plant Daniel during the first half of 1996. This increase was partially offset
by a slight decrease in fuel expense reflecting a lower cost of fuel. In 1995,
fuel and purchased power expenses increased $30.1 million or 15.5 percent from
1994 reflecting the increase in generation due to the extreme weather conditions
during the summer of 1995 and slightly higher fuel costs.

   The amount and sources of generation and the average cost of fuel per net
kilowatt-hour generated were as follows:

                                         1996      1995      1994
                                     -----------------------------
Total generation
   (millions of kilowatt-hours)        10,214     9,828     9,559
Sources of generation
   (percent)
   Coal                                  99.4      99.5      99.8
   Oil and gas                            0.6       0.5       0.2
Average cost of fuel per net
   kilowatt-hour generated
   (cents)
   Coal                                  1.99      2.08      2.00
   Oil and gas                           6.41      3.56      6.93
Total                                    2.02      2.09      2.01
- ------------------------------------------------------------------


                                      II-145


   
MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

   In 1996, other operation expenses increased $1.8 million or 1.5 percent from
the 1995 level. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase in
administrative and general expenses including costs associated with the approved
increase of the Company's annual accrual to the accumulated provision for
property damage to amortize deferred storm charges and restore the account
balance to a reasonable level. Higher costs related to the buyouts and
renegotiation of coal supply contracts and costs associated with the Company's
pro rata share of affiliated companies' workforce reduction costs were offset by
a decrease in costs related to the Company's work force reduction program
implemented in the prior year. In 1995, other operation expenses decreased $0.5
million due to a $9.4 million reduction in the amortization costs of coal
buyouts and renegotiation of coal supply contracts. This was offset by the $7
million accrual for benefits to be provided by the Company under the work force
reduction program implemented during the fourth quarter of 1995. These costs are
further discussed in Notes 2 and 5 to the financial statements under "Work Force
Reduction Programs" and "Fuel Commitments."

   Maintenance expense in 1996 decreased $0.9 million or 1.7 percent from the
prior year. This is attributable to a decrease in scheduled maintenance of
production facilities. In 1995, maintenance expense increased $5.2 million or
11.2 percent from the prior year due to higher power production maintenance
related to non-recurring items and higher distribution maintenance.

   Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $1.5 million or 2.8 percent
from 1995. This change is primarily due to an increase in depreciation expense
reflecting an increase in the average investment in distribution property as a
result of favorable growth in the Company's service area. In 1995, the decrease
in depreciation and amortization expenses of $1.5 million was attributable to
property which was fully amortized by December 1994.

   Federal and state income taxes increased $3.8 million or 11 percent in 1996
primarily due to an increase in taxable income. Taxes other than income taxes
increased $2.4 million or 4.9 percent primarily due to an increase in county
franchise fees as mentioned previously. In 1995, other taxes increased $7.9
million or 18.9 percent primarily due to an increase in county franchise fees.
Franchise fees are billed and collected from customers and have no impact on
earnings.

   In 1996, interest expense increased $0.9 million or 3.2 percent over the
prior year. The increase is attributable to the issuance of $30 million of new
first mortgage bonds in January 1996. The increase in interest on long-term debt
was partially offset by a decrease in interest on notes payable as a result of a
lower average amount of short-term notes outstanding. Interest expense in 1995
decreased $2.5 million or 7.8 percent under the prior year. The decrease was
attributable to lower interest on long-term debt reflecting a lower average
principal balance outstanding and the refinancing of $42 million of pollution
control bonds in December 1994.

Effects of Inflation

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an economic loss
because the Company is recovering its cost of investments in dollars that have
less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in
recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of
the large investment in long-lived utility plant. Conventional accounting for
historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations, such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from energy sales growth to a potentially less
regulated more competitive environment.

   A work force reduction program was implemented in the fourth quarter of 1995.
The cost of the program reduced earnings by $0.7 million in 1996 and $4.3
million in 1995. The estimated savings from this program in 1996 were $2.7
million and will be approximately $3.9 million annually beginning in 1997.



                                      II-146

 
MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

   In December 1995, the FPSC approved the Company's request to increase the
amount of its annual accrual to the accumulated provision for property damage
account from $1.2 million to $3.5 million due to significant hurricane-related
charges to the account during 1995. Refer to Note 1 to the financial statements
under "Provision for Property Damage" for further discussion.

   Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
which is subject to a number of factors. Traditionally, these factors have
included weather, competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities,
energy conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the
rate of economic growth in the Company's service area. However, the Energy
Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) is having a dramatic effect on the future of the
electric utility industry. The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency,
alternative fuel use, and increased wholesale competition for electric
utilities. The Company is positioning the business to meet the challenge of this
major change in the traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy Act
allows independent power producers (IPPs) to access the Company's transmission
network in order to sell electricity to other utilities. This enhances the
incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for industrial and commercial
customers and sell energy generation to utilities. Also, electricity sales for
resale rates are being driven down by wholesale transmission access and numerous
potential new energy suppliers, including power marketers and brokers. The
Company is aggressively working to maintain and expand its share of wholesale
sales in the southeastern power markets.

   Various federal and state initiatives designed to promote wholesale and
retail competition, among other things, include proposals that would allow
customers to choose their electricity provider.  As the initiatives 
materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically change.
Certain initiatives could result in a change in the ownership and/or
operation of generation and transmission facilities.  Numerous issues must be
resolved, including significant ones relating to transmission pricing and
recovery of stranded investments.  Being a low-cost producer could provide
significant opportunities to increase market share and profitability in 
markets that evolve with changing regulation.  Unless the Company remains a
low-cost producer and provides quality service, the Company's retail energy 
sales growth could be limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

   The FPSC set conservation goals for the Company, beginning in 1995, which
require programs to reduce 154 megawatts of summer peak demand and 65,000 KWH of
sales by the year 2004. In 1995, the FPSC approved the Company's programs to
accomplish these goals. The Company can experience net growth as long as the
filed programs achieve the intended reductions in peak demand and KWH sales. In
response to these goals and seeking to remain competitive with other electric
utilities, the Company has developed initiatives which emphasize price
flexibility and competitive offering of energy efficiency products and services.
These initiatives will enable customers to lower or alter their peak energy
requirements. Besides promoting energy efficiency, another benefit of these
initiatives could be the ability to defer the need to construct additional
generating capacity.

   On September 3, 1996, the FPSC approved a new optional Commercial/Industrial
Service Rider (CISR), which is applicable to the rate schedules for the
Company's largest existing and potential customers who are able to show they
have viable alternatives to purchasing the Company's energy services. The CISR,
approved as a pilot program, provides the flexibility needed to enable the
Company to offer its services in a more competitive manner to these customers.

   Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air
Act) could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The Clean Air
Act and other important environmental items are discussed later under
"Environmental Matters." Also, state of Florida legislation adopted in 1993 that
provides for recovery of prudent environmental compliance costs is discussed in
Note 3 to the financial statements under "Environmental Cost Recovery."

   The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to these provisions, the Company would be required to write off related


                                      II-147

 
MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

regulatory assets and liabilities and determine if any other assets have been
impaired. See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Regulatory Assets and
Liabilities" for additional information.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

The principal changes in the Company's financial condition during 1996 were
gross property additions of $61.4 million and a decrease of $55.5 million in
notes payable. Funds for the property additions and the net decrease in
short-term notes were provided by internal sources. See the Statements of Cash
Flows for further details.

Financing Activities

The Company continued to lower its financing costs by issuing new bonds and
other debt and retiring higher-cost issues in 1996. The Company sold $55 million
of first mortgage bonds, $33.3 million of pollution control bonds, and obtained
$49.1 million of long-term bank notes. Retirements, including maturities during
1996, totaled $50.9 million of first mortgage bonds, $33.3 million of pollution
control bonds, and $34.9 million of long-term bank notes. The refinancing of
$33.3 million in pollution control bonds and $49.2 million in first mortgage
bonds will result in savings of over $1 million annually. See the Statements of
Cash Flows for further details.

   Composite financing rates for the years 1994 through 1996 as of year end were
as follows:

                                     1996      1995       1994
                                  ------------------------------
Composite interest rate on
   long-term debt                     6.1%      6.5%       6.5%
Composite preferred stock
   dividend rate                      6.4%      6.4%       6.6%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

   The decrease in the composite interest rate on long-term debt from 1995 to
1996 reflects the Company's efforts to refinance higher-cost debt. The decrease
in the composite preferred stock dividend rate in 1995 was primarily due to a
decrease in dividends on the Company's adjustable rate preferred stock,
reflecting lower interest rates.

Capital Requirements for Construction

The Company's gross property additions, including those amounts related to
environmental compliance, are budgeted at $142 million for the three years
beginning in 1997 ($47 million in 1997, $49 million in 1998, and $46 million in
1999). Actual construction costs may vary from this estimate because of changes
in such factors as: business conditions; environmental regulations; load
projections; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; and the cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that
costs related to capital expenditures will be fully recovered. The Company does
not have any such generating plants under construction, and current energy
demand forecasts do not indicate a need for any such facilities until well into
the future. However, significant construction related to maintaining and 
upgrading transmission and distribution facilities and generating plants will
continue.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately $121
million will be required by the end of 1999 in connection with maturities of
long-term debt. Also, the Company will continue to retire higher-cost debt and
preferred stock and replace these securities with lower-cost capital as market
conditions and terms of the instruments permit.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- impacts the Company.
Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from
fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase I compliance
began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating units of Southern Company. As
a result of Southern Company's compliance strategy, an additional 22 generating
units were brought into compliance with Phase I requirements. Phase II
compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired generating plants will be
affected.

   In 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began issuing annual
sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the allowance trading program. An
emission allowance is the authority to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a


                                      II-148



MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

calendar year. The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to
minimize the cost of compliance. Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to use allowances as a compliance option.

   Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
This compliance strategy resulted in unused emission allowances being banked for
later use. Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled
approximately $310 million for Southern Company, including approximately $50
million for Gulf Power.

   For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired units as required
to meet Phase II limits. Therefore, current compliance strategy could require
total Phase II estimated construction expenditures for Southern Company of
approximately $80 million, of which $60 million remains to be spent. Phase II
compliance is not expected to have a material impact on Gulf Power. However, the
full impact of Phase II compliance cannot now be determined with certainty,
pending the continuing development of a market for emission allowances, the
completion of EPA regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction
technologies.

   Following adoption of legislation in April of 1992 allowing electric
utilities in Florida to seek FPSC approval of their Clean Air Act Compliance
Plans, Gulf Power filed its petition for approval. The FPSC approved the
Company's plan for Phase I compliance, deferring until a later date approval of
its Phase II Plan.

   An average increase of up to 2 percent in revenue requirements from the
Company's customers could be necessary to fully recover the cost of compliance
for both Phase I and Phase II of Title IV of the Clean Air Act. Compliance costs
include construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to low-sulfur
coal, and costs related to emission allowances.

   In 1993, the Florida Legislature adopted legislation that allows a utility to
petition the FPSC for recovery of prudent environmental compliance costs that
are not being recovered through base rates or any other recovery mechanism. The
legislation is discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Environmental Cost Recovery." Substantially all of the costs for the Clean Air
Act and other new environmental legislation discussed below are expected to be
recovered through the Environmental Cost Recovery Clause.

   The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various matters including: revisions to the ambient air quality
standards for ozone and particulate matter; emission control strategies for
ozone nonattainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant
emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.

   Gulf Power must comply with other environmental laws and regulations, under
which the Company could incur costs to clean up contaminated properties
currently or previously owned. The Company conducts studies to determine the
extent of any required cleanup costs and has recognized in the financial
statements costs to clean up known sites. For additional information, see Note 3
to the financial statements under "Environmental Cost Recovery."

   Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of the Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

   Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electric and magnetic fields, and other environmental health concerns
could significantly affect the Company. The impact of new legislation -- if any
- -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable


                                     II-149


MANAGEMENTS'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the result of
lawsuits alleging damages caused by electric and magnetic fields.

Sources of Capital

At December 31, 1996, the Company had $0.8 million of cash and cash equivalents
and $34.5 million of unused committed lines of credit with banks to meet its
short-term cash needs. See Note 5 to the financial statements under "Bank Credit
Arrangements" for additional information.

   In January 1997, Gulf Power Capital Trust I, of which the Company owns all
the common securities, issued $40 million of 7.625 percent mandatorily
redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of the Trust
are $41 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.625 percent Junior
Subordinated Notes due December 31, 2036.

   It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be derived
from operations; the sale of additional first mortgage bonds, pollution control
bonds, and preferred stock; bank notes; and capital contributions from Southern
Company. If the attractiveness of current short-term interest rates continues,
the Company may maintain a higher level of short-term indebtedness than has
historically been true. The Company is required to meet certain coverage
requirements specified in its mortgage indenture and corporate charter to issue
new first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. The Company's coverage ratios are
sufficient to permit, at present interest and preferred dividend levels, any
foreseeable security sales. The amount of securities which the Company will be
permitted to issue in the future will depend upon market conditions and other
factors prevailing at that time.


                                      II-150

  
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report




                                      II-151

 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-152



BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-153


BALANCE SHEETS (continued)
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-154

 
STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-155


STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION (continued)
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-156


STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-157



NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

General

Gulf Power Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company, which is
the parent company of five operating companies, a system service company,
Southern Communications Services (Southern Communications), Southern Energy,
Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear Operating Company (Southern Nuclear),
The Southern Development and Investment Group (Southern Development), and other
direct and indirect subsidiaries. The operating companies (Alabama Power,
Georgia Power, Gulf Power, Mississippi Power, and Savannah Electric) provide
electric service in four southeastern states. Gulf Power Company provides
electric service to the northwest panhandle of Florida. Contracts among the
operating companies -- dealing with jointly owned generating facilities,
interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power -- are
regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the Securities
and Exchange Commission. The system service company provides, at cost,
specialized services to Southern Company and subsidiary companies. Southern
Communications provides digital wireless communications services to the
operating companies and also markets these services to the public within the
Southeast. Southern Energy designs, builds, owns and operates power production
and delivery facilities and provides a broad range of energy related services in
the United States and international markets. Southern Nuclear provides services
to Southern Company's nuclear power plants. Southern Development develops new
business opportunities related to energy products and services.

   Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The Company is also
subject to regulation by the FERC and the Florida Public Service Commission
(FPSC). The Company follows generally accepted accounting principles and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the FPSC. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may
differ from those estimates.

   Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the Company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are to be credited to
customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Balance Sheets at December 31 relate to the following:

                                              1996        1995
                                        -------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Current & deferred
   coal contract costs                    $ 29,515    $ 46,535
Deferred income taxes                       28,313      29,093
Deferred loss on reacquired debt            20,386      17,015
Environmental remediation                    7,577       5,789
Vacation pay                                 4,055       4,419
Regulatory clauses (over) under
   recovery, net                            (1,740)        632
Deferred income tax credits                (64,354)    (67,481)
Deferred storm charges                       3,275       7,502
Other, net                                  (1,202)     (1,510)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                     $ 25,825    $ 41,994
=================================================================

   In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer subject
to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the Company would be required to write
off related regulatory assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company would be
required to determine any impairment to other assets, including plant, and write
down the assets, if impaired, to their fair value.


                                      II-158



NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Revenues and Regulatory Cost Recovery Clauses

The Company accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period. The Company has a diversified base of customers and no
single customer or industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1996,
uncollectible accounts continued to average significantly less than 1 percent of
revenues.

   Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The Company's electric rates
include provisions to periodically adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel and
the energy component of purchased power costs. The Company also has similar cost
recovery clauses for energy conservation costs, purchased power capacity costs,
and environmental compliance costs. Revenues are adjusted monthly for
differences between recoverable costs and amounts actually reflected in current
rates.

Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.6 percent in 1996 and 1995 and 3.8 percent in 1994. When property subject to
depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Also, the provision for depreciation expense includes an amount
for the expected cost of removal of facilities.

Income Taxes

The Company uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income taxes
and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax temporary
differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and amortized to
income over the average lives of the related property. The Company is included
in the consolidated federal income tax return of Southern Company. See Note 8
for further information related to income taxes.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction
(AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The FPSC-approved composite rate used to calculate AFUDC
was 7.27 percent for 1996, 1995, and 1994. AFUDC amounts for 1996, 1995, and
1994 were $75 thousand, $223 thousand, and $1.1 million, respectively. The
decrease in 1996 and 1995 is primarily due to no long-term construction projects
being implemented in 1996 and due to the completion of major construction
projects at Plant Daniel at the end of 1994, respectively.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost. Original cost includes: materials;
labor; minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction. The cost of maintenance,
repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense. The cost of replacements of property (exclusive of minor items of
property) is charged to utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.


                                      II-159


NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company's long-term debt are shown
in the table below:

                                     Carrying           Fair
                                       Amount          Value
                                 ----------------------------
                                         (in thousands)
Long-term debt
   At December 31, 1996              $372,852       $373,394
   At December 31, 1995              $354,924       $365,305
- -------------------------------------------------------------

   The fair values for long-term debt were based on either closing market prices
or closing prices of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory
when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

Provision for Injuries and Damages

The Company is subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of
business. As permitted by regulatory authorities, the Company provides for the
uninsured costs of injuries and damages by charges to income amounting to $1.2
million annually. The expense of settling claims is charged to the provision to
the extent available. The accumulated provision of $1.8 million and $1.7 million
at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, is included in miscellaneous
current liabilities in the accompanying Balance Sheets. 

Provision for Property Damage

The Company is self-insured for the full cost of storm and other damages to its
transmission and distribution property. At December 31, 1996, the accumulated
provision for property damage had a negative balance of $3.3 million, reflecting
the remaining deferred charges for expenses relating to Hurricanes Erin and Opal
during 1995. The negative balance was reclassified to deferred storm charges in
the accompanying Balance Sheets. In December 1995, the FPSC approved the
Company's request to increase the amount of its annual accrual to the
accumulated provision for property damage account from $1.2 million to $3.5
million. The FPSC approved this amount pending the results of a study it ordered
the Company to file addressing the appropriate reserve level and annual accrual
amount. The required study was filed with the FPSC, and in November 1996, the
FPSC reaffirmed an annual accrual of $3.5 million and approved a target level
for the accumulated provision account between $25.1 and $36 million. The FPSC
has also given the Company the flexibility to increase its annual accrual amount
above $3.5 million, when the Company believes it is in a position to do so,
until the account balance reaches $12 million. Therefore, during 1996, the
Company accrued $4.5 million to the accumulated provision for property damage.
The expense of repairing damages from major storms and other uninsured property
damages is charged to the provision account.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on one of the
following formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of service
and a flat-dollar benefit. The Company uses the "entry age normal method with a
frozen initial liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject to
limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the pension
trust fund are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities. FASB
Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.


                                      II-160

 
NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Postretirement Benefits

The Company provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. Trusts are funded to the extent deductible under
federal income tax regulations or to the extent required by the Company's
regulatory commissions. Amounts funded are primarily invested in equity and
fixed-income securities. FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis
using a specified actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The following tables show actuarial results and assumptions for pension and
postretirement insurance benefits as computed under the requirements of FASB
Statement Nos. 87 and 106, respectively. The funded status of the plans at
December 31 was as follows:

                                                 Pension
                                         --------------------------
                                               1996           1995
                                         ---------------------------
                                               (in thousands)
Actuarial present value of
  benefit obligation:
     Vested benefits                        $ 87,245       $ 87,652
     Non-vested benefits                       5,101          4,284
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation                92,346         91,936
Additional amounts related to
   projected salary increases                 31,121         29,073
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation                 123,467        121,009
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                 191,152        180,980
   Unrecognized net gain                     (58,900)       (48,438)
   Unrecognized prior service cost             5,618          2,578
   Unrecognized transition asset              (6,485)        (7,187)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid asset recognized in
   the Balance Sheets                       $  7,918       $  6,924
====================================================================



                                        Postretirement Benefits
                                     ---------------------------
                                              1996         1995
                                     ---------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Actuarial present value of
  benefit obligation:
     Retirees and dependents               $10,478      $ 9,759
     Employees eligible to retire            5,484        4,921
     Other employees                        17,694       17,646
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation              33,656       32,326
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                 7,996        7,050
   Unrecognized net loss                     1,531        1,538
   Unrecognized transition
     obligation                              5,790        7,437
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liability recognized in
   the Balance Sheets                      $18,339      $16,301
================================================================

   In 1995, the Company announced a cost sharing program for postretirement
benefits. The program establishes limits on amounts the Company will pay to
provide future retiree postretirement benefits. This change reduced the 1995
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $7.1 million.

   The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations were:

                                    1996       1995       1994
                                --------------------------------
Discount                             7.8%      7.3%        8.0%
Annual salary increase               5.3%      4.8%        5.5%
Long-term return on plan
  assets                             8.5%      8.5%        8.5%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------

   An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 9.3
percent for 1996, decreasing gradually to 5.8 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation at December 31, 1996, by $2.6 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net retiree cost by $254 thousand.


                                      II-161

 
NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

   Components of the plans' net costs are shown below:

                                              Pension
                              -------------------------------------
                                    1996        1995         1994
                              -------------------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Benefits earned during
   the year                     $  3,880    $  3,867     $  3,775
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation              9,129       8,042        7,484
Actual (return) loss on
   plan assets                   (21,021)    (33,853)       3,721
Net amortization
   and deferral                    5,920      19,619      (17,054)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension income              $ (2,092)   $ (2,325)    $ (2,074)
===================================================================

   Of the above net pension amounts, pension income of $1.5 million in 1996,
$1.8 million in 1995, and $1.5 million in 1994 were recorded in operating
expenses, and the remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.

                                       Postretirement Benefits
                                   ----------------------------------
                                        1996        1995      1994
                                   ---------------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Benefits earned during the year       $  939      $1,259    $1,362
Interest cost on accumulated
   benefit obligation                  2,330       2,520     2,535
Amortization of transition
   obligation                            356         853       854
Actual (return) loss on plan assets     (797)     (1,268)      129
Net amortization and deferral            318         742      (591)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement cost               $3,146      $4,106    $4,289
=====================================================================

   Of the above net postretirement costs recorded, $2.3 million in 1996 and $3.1
million in 1995 and 1994 were charged to operating expenses, and the remainder
was recorded in construction and other accounts.

Work Force Reduction Programs

The Company implemented a voluntary work force reduction program in the fourth
quarter of 1995 and recorded $1.2 million in 1996 and $7 million in 1995 for the
total pre-tax cost related to the program. The Company has also incurred its pro
rata share for the costs of affiliated companies' programs. The costs related to
these programs were $2.1 million for 1996, $1 million for 1995, and $1.3 million
for 1994.


3.  LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

FERC Reviews Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the operating companies' wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar contracts.

   In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

   In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on substantially
the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a FERC
administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to meet
its burden of proof, and therefore, no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter remains pending before the FERC.

   If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all of the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings, as
well as certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in determining
return on common equity, and if refunds were ordered, the amount of refunds
could range up to approximately $160 million for Southern Company, including
approximately $10 million for the Company at December 31, 1996. However,
management believes that rates are not excessive and that refunds are not
justified.


                                      II-162

 
NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Environmental Cost Recovery

In April 1993, the Florida Legislature adopted legislation for an Environmental
Cost Recovery Clause (ECRC), which allows a utility to petition the FPSC for
recovery of all prudent environmental compliance costs that are not being
recovered through base rates or any other recovery mechanism. Such environmental
costs include operation and maintenance expense, emission allowance expense,
depreciation, and a return on invested capital.

   In January 1994, the FPSC approved the Company's initial petition under the
ECRC for recovery of environmental costs. Beginning with this initial period
through September 1996, recovery under the ECRC was determined semi-annually. In
August 1996, the FPSC approved annual recovery periods beginning with the
October 1996 through September 1997 period. Recovery includes a true-up of the
prior period and a projection of the ensuing period. During 1996 and 1995, the
Company recorded ECRC revenues of $11.0 million and $11.8 million, respectively.

   At December 31, 1996, the Company's liability for the estimated costs of
environmental remediation projects for known sites was $7.6 million. These
estimated costs are expected to be expended during the period 1997 to 2001.
These projects have been approved by the FPSC for recovery through the ECRC
discussed above. Therefore, the Company recorded $1.9 million in current assets
and $5.7 million in deferred charges representing the future recoverability of
these costs.

4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program, the cost of which
is currently estimated to total $47 million in 1997, $49 million in 1998, and
$46 million in 1999. The construction program is subject to periodic review and
revision, and actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates
because of numerous factors. These factors include changes in business
conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations;
increasing costs of labor, equipment and materials; and cost of capital. At
December 31, 1996, significant purchase commitments were outstanding in
connection with the construction program. The Company does not have any
generating plants under construction. However, significant construction will
continue related to transmission and distribution facilities and the upgrading
and extension of the useful lives of generating plants.

   See Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Environmental Matters" for
information on the impact of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and other
environmental matters.

5.  FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS

General

Current projections indicate that funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be derived
primarily from internal sources. Requirements not met from internal sources will
be derived from the sale of additional first mortgage bonds, pollution control
bonds, and preferred stock; bank notes; and capital contributions from Southern
Company. In addition, the Company may issue additional long-term debt and
preferred stock primarily for the purposes of debt maturities and redemptions of
higher-cost securities.

Bank Credit Arrangements

At December 31, 1996, the Company had $5 million in revolving credit lines that
expire May 31, 1997, and $41.5 million of lines of credit with banks subject to
renewal June 1 of each year, of which $34.5 million remained unused. In
addition, the Company has a $20.3 million unused committed line of credit
established for liquidity support of its variable rate pollution control bonds.
In connection with these credit lines, the Company has agreed to pay commitment
fees and/or to maintain compensating balances with the banks. The compensating
balances, which represent substantially all of the cash of the Company except
for daily working funds and like items, are not legally restricted from
withdrawal. In addition, the Company has bid-loan facilities with twelve major
money center banks that total $230 million, of which $13 million was committed
at December 31, 1996.


                                      II-163

 
NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Assets Subject to Lien

The Company's mortgage, which secures the first mortgage bonds issued by the
Company, constitutes a direct first lien on substantially all of the Company's
fixed property and franchises.

Fuel Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
Company has entered into long-term commitments for the procurement of fuel. In
most cases, these contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum
purchase levels, and other financial commitments. Total estimated long-term
obligations at December 31, 1996, were as follows:

     Year                                           Fuel
     -------                                 ----------------
                                              (in millions)
     1997                                               $125
     1998                                                 98
     1999                                                 79
     2000                                                 71
     2001                                                 73
     2002 - 2007                                         481
     --------------------------------------------------------
     Total commitments                                  $927
     ========================================================

   In 1988, the Company made an advance payment of $60 million to a coal
supplier under an arrangement to lower the cost of future coal purchased under
an existing contract. This amount is being amortized to expense on a per ton
basis over a ten-year period.  The remaining unamortized amount was $13.3
million at December 31, 1996.

   In December 1995, the Company made another payment of $22 million to the same
coal supplier under an arrangement to lower the cost of future coal and/or to
suspend the purchase of coal under an existing contract for 25 months. This
amount is being amortized to expense on a per ton basis through the first
quarter of 1998. The remaining unamortized amount was $16.2 million at December
31, 1996.

   The amortization expense of these contract buyouts and renegotiations is
being recovered through the fuel cost recovery clause discussed under "Revenues
and Regulatory Cost Recovery Clauses" in Note 1.

Lease Agreements

In 1989, the Company and Mississippi Power jointly entered into a twenty-two
year operating lease agreement for the use of 495 aluminum railcars. In 1994, a
second lease agreement for the use of 250 additional aluminum railcars was
entered into for twenty-two years. Both of these leases are for the
transportation of coal to Plant Daniel. The Company, as a joint owner of Plant
Daniel, is responsible for one half of the lease costs. The lease costs are
charged to fuel inventory and are allocated to fuel expense as the fuel is used.
The Company's share of the lease costs charged to fuel inventory was $1.7
million in 1996 and 1995 and $1.2 million in 1994. The Company's annual lease
payments for 1997 through 2001 will be approximately $1.7 million and after
2001, lease payments total approximately $20.7 million. The Company has the
option after three years from the date of the original contract on the second
lease agreement to purchase the railcars at the greater of the termination value
or the fair market value. Additionally, at the end of each lease term, the
Company has the option to renew the lease.

6.  JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

The Company and Mississippi Power jointly own Plant Daniel, a steam-electric
generating plant located in Jackson County, Mississippi. In accordance with an
operating agreement, Mississippi Power acts as the Company's agent with respect
to the construction, operation, and maintenance of the plant.

   The Company and Georgia Power jointly own Plant Scherer Unit No. 3. Plant
Scherer is a steam-electric generating plant located near Forsyth, Georgia. In
accordance with an operating agreement, Georgia Power acts as the Company's
agent with respect to the construction, operation, and maintenance of the unit.

   The Company's pro rata share of expenses related to both plants is included
in the corresponding operating expense accounts in the Statements of Income.


                                      II-164

 
NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

   At December 31, 1996, the Company's percentage ownership and its investment
in these jointly owned facilities were as follows:

                                    Plant Scherer        Plant
                                     Unit No. 3          Daniel
                                    (coal-fired)      (coal-fired)
                                   --------------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
Plant In Service                       $185,742(1)       $222,463
Accumulated Depreciation                $54,079          $102,027
Construction Work in Progress              $314               $33

Nameplate Capacity (2)
 (megawatts)                                205               500
Ownership                                    25%               50%
- -------------------------------------------------------------------

(1)  Includes net plant acquisition adjustment.
(2)  Total megawatt nameplate capacity:
       Plant Scherer Unit No. 3:  818
       Plant Daniel:  1,000

7.  LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

The Company and the other operating affiliates have long-term contractual
agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain non-affiliated
utilities located outside the system's service area. The agreements for non-firm
capacity expired in 1994. The unit power sales agreements, expiring at various
dates discussed below, are firm and pertain to capacity related to specific
generating units. Because the energy is generally sold at cost under these
agreements, revenues from capacity sales primarily affect profitability. The
Company's capacity revenues have been as follows:

                                     Other
                         Unit        Long-
Year                    Power        Term         Total
- ----------            -------------------------------------
                                 (in thousands)
1996                   $25,400       $    -      $25,400
1995                    25,870            -       25,870
1994                    29,653        1,273       30,926
- -----------------------------------------------------------

   Unit power from specific generating plants of Southern Company is currently
being sold to Florida Power Corporation (FPC), Florida Power & Light Company
(FP&L), Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA), and the city of Tallahassee,
Florida. Under these agreements, 211 megawatts of net dependable capacity were
sold by the Company during 1996, and sales will remain at that level until the
expiration of the contracts in 2010, unless reduced by FPC, FP&L and JEA after
1999.

   Capacity and energy sales to FP&L, the Company's largest single customer,
provided revenues of $27.2 million in 1996, $25.4 million in 1995, and $29.3
million in 1994, or 4.3 percent, 4.1 percent, and 5.1 percent of operating
revenues, respectively.

8.  INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1996, the tax-related regulatory assets to be recovered from
customers were $28.3 million. These assets are attributable to tax benefits
flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to
capitalized AFUDC. At December 31, 1996, the tax-related regulatory liabilities
to be credited to customers were $64.4 million. These liabilities are
attributable to deferred taxes previously recognized at rates higher than
current enacted tax law and to unamortized investment tax credits.

   Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:

                                     1996        1995        1994
                                ----------------------------------
                                          (in thousands)
Total provision for
 income taxes:
Federal--
   Currently payable              $31,022     $29,018     $34,941
   Deferred--current year          26,072      23,172      18,556
            --reversal of
                prior years       (24,780)    (23,116)    (24,787)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   32,314      29,074      28,710
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
State--
   Currently payable                4,394       4,778       5,907
   Deferred--current year           3,904       3,313       2,549
            --reversal of
                prior years        (3,039)     (2,979)     (3,304)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    5,259       5,112       5,152
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              37,573      34,186      33,862
Less income taxes charged
   (credited) to other income        (248)        121         (95)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes charged
   to operations                  $37,821     $34,065     $33,957
==================================================================


                                      II-165


NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

   The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

                                                  1996        1995
                                            -----------------------
                                                (in thousands)
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Accelerated depreciation                   $151,664    $146,926
   Property basis differences                   21,028      19,976
   Coal contract buyouts                         3,700       3,838
   Property insurance                            1,248       3,039
   Other                                        12,674      10,573
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          190,314     184,352
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Federal effect of state deferred taxes        9,773      10,212
   Postretirement benefits                       5,767       5,494
   Other                                         7,814       6,313
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           23,354      22,019
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                   166,960     162,333
Less current portion, net                        3,103         (12)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income
   taxes in the Balance Sheets                $163,857    $162,345
===================================================================

   Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $2.3 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994. At December 31, 1996, all
investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been
utilized.

   A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                     1996      1995      1994
                                  ------------------- ---------
Federal statutory rate                 35%       35%       35%
State income tax,
   net of federal deduction             4         4         4
Non-deductible book
   depreciation                         1         1         1
Difference in prior years'
   deferred and current tax rate       (1)       (3)       (2)
Other                                  (2)       (2)       (2)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Effective income tax rate              37%       35%       36%
===============================================================

   The Company and the other subsidiaries of Southern Company file a
consolidated federal tax return. Under a joint consolidated income tax
agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the parent company are allocated
to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable income to total consolidated
taxable income.

9.  POLLUTION CONTROL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of pollution control obligations and other long-term debt at December 31
are as follows:

                                             1996         1995
                                     --------------------------
                                              (in thousands)
Obligations incurred in
   connection with the sale by
   public authorities of
   tax-exempt pollution control
   revenue bonds:
   Collateralized
     5.25% due 2006                       $12,075      $     -
     6% due 2006                                -       12,075
     8.25% due 2017                        32,000       32,000
     7.125% due 2021                            -       21,200
     6.75% due 2022                         8,930        8,930
     5.70% due 2023                         7,875        7,875
     5.80% due 2023                        32,550       32,550
     6.20% due 2023                        13,000       13,000
     6.30% due 2024                        22,000       22,000
     Variable Rate due 2024
       Remarketable daily                  20,000       20,000
     5.50% due 2026                        21,200            -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                         $169,630     $169,630
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Other long-term debt:
   4.69% due 1996                               -       25,000
   5.2125% due 1996-1998                   16,823            -
   6.44% due 1994-1998                      7,476       12,074
   Variable Rate due 1999                  13,500            -
   Variable Rate due 1999                  13,500            -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                           51,299       37,074
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                    $220,929     $206,704
===============================================================

   Pollution control obligations represent installment purchases of pollution
control facilities financed by funds derived from sales by public authorities of
revenue bonds. With respect to the collateralized pollution control revenue
bonds, the Company has authenticated and delivered to trustees a like principal
amount of first mortgage bonds as security for obligations under collateralized
installment agreements. The principal and interest on the first mortgage bonds
will be payable only in the event of default under the agreements.
                                          

                                      II-166


NOTES (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

   The estimated annual maturities of other long-term debt are as follows: 
$16 million in 1997, $8.3 million in 1998, and $27 million in 1999.

10.  CAPITALIZATION DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirement and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt and preferred stock due within one year at
December 31 is as follows:

                                              1996        1995
                                         ----------------------
                                              (in thousands)
Bond improvement fund requirement          $ 1,550     $ 1,750
Less:  Portion to be satisfied by
       certifying property additions         1,550           -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Cash sinking fund requirement                    -       1,750
Maturities of first mortgage bonds          25,000           -
Current portion of other long-term
   debt (Note 9)                            15,972      29,598
Pollution control bond maturity                  -         200
Redemption of preferred stock               24,500           -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                      $65,472     $31,548
===============================================================

   The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirement amounts to 1
percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the indenture
prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to collateralize
pollution control obligations. The requirement may be satisfied by depositing
cash, reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal to 1 and 2/3
times the requirement.


11.  COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

The Company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various common stock
dividend restrictions which remain in effect as long as the bonds are
outstanding. At December 31, 1996, retained earnings of $127 million were
restricted against the payment of cash dividends on common stock under the terms
of the mortgage indenture.

   The Company's charter limits cash dividends on common stock to 50 percent of
net income available for such stock during a prior period of 12 months if the
capitalization ratio is below 20 percent and to 75 percent of such net income if
such ratio is 20 percent or more but less than 25 percent. The capitalization
ratio is defined as the ratio of common stock equity to total capitalization,
including retained earnings, adjusted to reflect the payment of the proposed
dividend. At December 31, 1996, the ratio was 47.6 percent.

12.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1996 and 1995 are as follows:

                                                       Net Income
                                                  After Dividends
                       Operating      Operating      on Preferred
Quarter Ended           Revenues         Income             Stock
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    (in thousands)
March 31, 1996          $154,921        $20,201           $11,258
June 30, 1996            153,821         21,565            12,581
Sept. 30, 1996           179,619         32,568            23,721
Dec. 31, 1996            146,004         19,458            10,285

March 31, 1995          $140,918        $19,503           $10,880
June 30, 1995            153,057         23,390            14,096
Sept. 30, 1995           184,251         35,187            26,588
Dec. 31, 1995            140,851         13,082             5,590
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

   The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions and the
timing of rate changes, among other factors.


                                      II-167



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report


                                      II-168



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-169A


SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-169B



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report


                                      II-170

 

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report

 

                                      II-171A


SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA  (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                      II-171B

 
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Gulf Power Company


                                     II-172


STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Gulf Power Company



                                     II-173A


STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Gulf Power Company


                                    II-173B



STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Gulf Power Company



                                     II-174

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Gulf Power Company


                                    II-175A


STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Gulf Power Company


                                    II-175B


BALANCE SHEETS
Gulf Power Company


                                     II-176


BALANCE SHEETS
Gulf Power Company


                                    II-177A



BALANCE SHEETS
Gulf Power Company



                                    II-177B


BALANCE SHEETS
Gulf Power Company


                                     II-178

BALANCE SHEETS
Gulf Power Company



                                    II-179A

BALANCE SHEETS
Gulf Power Company

                                    II-179B






                                             II-180




                               GULF POWER COMPANY

                         SECURITIES RETIRED DURING 1996

                              First Mortgage Bonds
                                     Principal                       Interest
      Series                          Amount                           Rate
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      (Thousands)
       1978                            $   930                         9%   
       1991                             50,000                         8-3/4%
                                       =======
                                       $50,930                        
                                       =======

                             Pollution Control Bonds
                                     Principal                       Interest
      Series                          Amount                           Rate
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      (Thousands)
       1976                            $12,075                         6%   
       1991                             21,200                         7-1/8%
                                       =======
                                       $33,275                  
                                       =======



                                     II-181



                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

                               FINANCIAL SECTION
    



                                      II-182

                                

 
MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report

The management of Mississippi Power Company has prepared--and is responsible
for--the financial statements and related information included in this report.
These statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include amounts that
are based on best estimates and judgments of management. Financial information
throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial statements.

    The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based upon a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The Company believes its system of
internal accounting control maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

    The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the internal audit staff. The Company's independent public
accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system in
order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of four directors
who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
reporting and control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with
management, the internal auditors, and the independent public accountants to
ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls, and financial reporting matters. The internal
auditors and independent public accountants have access to the members of the
audit committee at any time.

    Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

    In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows
of Mississippi Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.


Dwight H. Evans
President and Chief Executive Officer



Michael W. Southern
Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer

February 12, 1997



                                      II-183



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
To the Board of Directors of Mississippi Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of 
capitalization of Mississippi Power Company (a Mississippi corporation and a
wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 1996 and 1995,
and the related statements of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and 
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996. 
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also 
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates 
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement 
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-192 through 207)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Mississippi Power Company as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.




Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997


                                      II-184

  

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Mississippi Power Company's net income after dividends on preferred stock for
1996 was $52.7 million, an increase of 0.4 percent or $0.2 million over the
corresponding amount in 1995. Earnings reflect a modest increase in energy
sales, an annual retail rate decrease of $3.0 million under the Environmental
Compliance Overview Plan (ECO Plan), effective in April 1996, and an annual
retail rate increase of $4.5 million under the Performance Evaluation Plan
(PEP), effective October 1996.

    A comparison of 1995 earnings to 1994 shows an increase of $3.4 million. The
increase was due to increased energy sales and an annual retail rate increase of
$3.7 million under the ECO Plan, effective in May 1995.

    In April 1994, retail rates increased by $7.6 million annually under the ECO
Plan and wholesale rates increased by $3.6 million.

Revenues

The following table summarizes the factors impacting operating revenues for the
past three years:

                                     Increase (Decrease)
                                       from Prior Year
                              -----------------------------------
                                  1996        1995         1994
                              -----------------------------------
                                      (in thousands)
    Retail --
       Change in base
        rates (PEP and
        ECO Plan)            $   (402)     $  2,694      $9,314
       Sales growth            11,187         4,045       9,560
       Weather                 (5,585)        4,513       1,752
       Fuel cost
        recovery
        and other              (1,255)        3,806       6,594
    -------------------------------------------------------------
    Total retail                3,945        15,058      27,220
    -------------------------------------------------------------
    Sales for resale --
       Non-affiliates           7,776         3,698       4,611
       Affiliates              14,139        (1,847)     (5,981)
    -------------------------------------------------------------
    Total sales for
       resale                  21,915         1,851      (1,370)
    Other operating
       revenues                 1,616           482      (1,571)
    --------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating
       revenues               $27,476       $17,391     $24,279
    ==============================================================
    Percent change                5.3%          3.5%        5.1%
    -------------------------------------------------------------

    In 1996, retail revenues were $414 million, a 1.0 percent increase above the
$410 million recorded in the prior year. This change in retail revenues was due
to a number of factors. These factors included modest growth in energy sales of
3.8 percent, 3.3 percent and 1.9 percent to industrial, commercial and
residential customers, respectively, and changes in retail revenues due to the
ECO Plan and PEP, as discussed earlier. Retail revenues in 1995 when compared to
1994 showed an increase of 3.8 percent resulting from an increase in energy
sales to commercial and residential customers, an increase in the number of
customers and a retail rate increase under the ECO Plan. Changes in base rates
reflect rate changes made under the PEP and ECO Plan.

    Under the fuel cost recovery provision, recorded fuel revenues are equal to
recorded fuel expenses, including the fuel component and the operation and
maintenance component of purchased energy. Therefore, changes in recoverable
fuel expenses are offset with corresponding changes in fuel revenues and have no
effect on net income.



                                      II-185

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


    Energy sales to non-affiliates include economy sales and amounts sold under
short-term contracts. Sales for resale to non-affiliates are influenced by those
utilities' own customer demand, plant availability, and the cost of their
predominant fuels -- oil and natural gas.

    Included in sales for resale to non-affiliates are revenues from rural
electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern
Mississippi. Energy sales to these customers increased 6.4 percent in 1996 and
13.1 percent in 1995 with the related revenues rising 7.1 percent and 16.7
percent, respectively. The customer demand experienced by these utilities is
determined by factors very similar to Mississippi Power's.

    Sales for resale to non-territorial utilities are primarily under long-term
contracts consisting of capacity and energy components. Capacity revenues
reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the
contracts. Energy is generally sold at variable cost. Under these long-term
contracts, the capacity and energy components were:

                         1996            1995          1994
                        -------------------------------------
                                    (in thousands)
   Capacity               $    -      $  268          $ 1,965
   Energy                  3,761       3,627            8,473
   ==========================================================
   Total                  $3,761      $3,895          $10,438
   ==========================================================

    Capacity revenues for Mississippi Power varied due to changes in the
contracts and in the allocation of transmission capacity revenues throughout the
Southern electric system. Most of the Company's capacity revenues are derived
from transmission charges.

    Sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric system will vary
from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of
generating resources at each company. These sales have no material impact on
earnings.

    Below is a breakdown of kilowatt-hour sales for 1996 and the percent change
for the last three years:

                         Amount           Percent Change
    (millions of       -----------   ------------------------------
    kilowatt-hours)      1996          1996        1995      1994
                       ----------    ------------------------------
   Residential           2,080          1.9%        6.2%    (0.4)%
   Commercial            2,316          3.3         6.7      8.6
   Industrial            3,960          3.8        (0.9)     6.2
   Other                    39          1.9         1.1     (0.5)
                       ----------
   Total retail          8,395          3.2         2.9      5.1
   Sales for
      resale --
       Non-affiliates    2,727          9.4        (2.4)     0.4
       Affiliates          694        184.7        39.7    (59.2)
                       ----------
   Total                11,816          8.7%        2.2%     1.3%
   ================================================================

    Total retail energy sales in 1996 increased over 1995 primarily due to
growth in the number of customers served by the Company. Total retail energy
sales in 1995, when compared to the previous year, increased due to weather
influences and the improving economy within the Company's service area.

    The Company anticipates continued growth in energy sales as the economy
improves within its service area. The casino industry and ancillary services,
such as lodging, food, transportation, etc., are some of the factors which may
influence the economy of the Company's service area. Also, energy demand is
expected to grow as a result of a larger and more fully employed population.

Expenses

Total operating expenses for 1996 when compared to 1995 increased 6.6 percent
due to higher fuel expenses, higher maintenance expenses and higher depreciation
and amortization. A comparison of 1995 to 1994 operating expenses reflects an
increase that resulted from higher fuel expenses, increased other operation
expenses and increased depreciation and amortization.

      Fuel costs are the single largest expense for the Company. In 1996, fuel
costs increased above those recorded in 1995 due to a 21.7 percent increase in
generation. The increase in generation can be attributed to the higher demand
for energy within the Company's service area and across the Southern electric
system. Further, this increased demand for energy resulted in higher purchased
power costs from non-affiliates and lower purchased power costs from the


                                      II-186



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


affiliates of the Southern electric system. A comparison of 1995 fuel expenses
to 1994 fuel expenses reflects an increase in generation due to higher demand
for energy.

    Purchased power consists mainly of energy purchases from the affiliates of
the Southern electric system. Purchased power transactions (both sales and
purchases) among Mississippi Power and its affiliates will vary from period to
period depending on demand and the availability and variable production cost at
each generating unit in the Southern electric system.

      The amount and sources of energy supply, the average cost of fuel per net
kilowatt-hour generated, and the total average cost of energy supply (including
purchased power) were as follows:

                                  1996      1995      1994
                                ------------------------------
Total generation
   (millions of
   kilowatt-hours)               10,180     8,368     7,408
Sources of energy
   supply (percent) --
     Coal                            70        58        56
     Gas                             12        15        10
     Oil                              *         *         *
     Purchased Power                 18        27        34
Average cost of fuel per
   net kilowatt-hour
   generated (cents) --
     Coal                          1.43      1.58      1.67
     Gas                           4.24      2.32      2.56
     Oil                           5.71      6.21      4.15
Total average cost
   of energy supply                1.56      1.53      1.55
- --------------------------------------------------------------
* Not meaningful because of minimal generation from the fuel source.

    Other operation expenses in 1995 when compared to 1994, increased due to
higher generation, a $2.6 million charge for emission allowance expenditures and
work force reduction program costs. (See Note 2 to the financial statements
under "Work Force Reduction Programs" for additional information.)

    In 1996, maintenance expenses rose above the amount recorded for 1995 due to
the timing of maintenance performed at Plants Daniel and Watson, as well as
other projects. A comparison of 1995 maintenance expenses to 1994 reflects a
decrease due to the timing of scheduled maintenance.

    Depreciation and amortization in 1996, as compared to 1995, increased
primarily due to additional plant investment, higher depreciation rates
beginning in 1996, and increased amortization of regulatory assets. In 1995, as
compared to 1994, depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to
additional plant investments.

    Taxes other than income taxes for 1996 increased from 1995 much like 1995
when compared to 1994, due to higher municipal franchise taxes resulting from
higher retail revenues.

    The decrease in 1996 income taxes when compared to 1995, is a result of
lower operating income. The change in income taxes between 1995 and 1994 also
reflects the change in operating income.

Effects of Inflation

Mississippi Power is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are
based on the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an
economic loss because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in
dollars that have less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been
relatively low in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the
Company because of the large investment in long-lived utility plant.
Conventional accounting for historical costs does not recognize this economic
loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities
with fixed-money obligations, such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any
recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of
return allowed.

Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from regulatory matters to energy sales growth to a
less regulated more competitive environment. Expenses are subject to constant
review and cost control programs. Mississippi Power is also maximizing the
utility of invested capital and minimizing the need for capital by refinancing,
decreasing the average fuel stockpile, raising generating plant availability and
efficiency, and aggressively controlling the construction budget. Operating



                                      II-187



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


revenues will be affected by any changes in rates under the PEP, the Company's
performance based ratemaking plan, and the ECO Plan. PEP has proven to be a
stabilizing force on electric rates, with only moderate changes in rates taking
place.

    The ECO Plan provides for recovery of costs (including costs of capital)
associated with environmental projects approved by the Mississippi Public
Service Commission (MPSC), most of which are required to comply with Clean Air
Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air Act) regulations. The ECO Plan is operated
independently of PEP. The Clean Air Act and other important environmental items
are discussed later under "Environmental Matters."

    The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates wholesale rate
schedules and power sales contracts that Mississippi Power has with its sales
for resale customers. The FERC is currently reviewing the rate of return on
common equity included in these schedules and contracts and may require such
returns to be lowered, possibly retroactively.

    Further discussion of PEP, the ECO Plan, and proceedings before the FERC is
made in Note 3 to the financial statements herein.

    Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
which are subject to a number of factors. Traditionally, these factors have
included weather, competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities,
energy conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the
rate of economic growth in Mississippi Power's service area. However, the Energy
Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) is beginning to have a dramatic effect on the
future of the electric utility industry. The Energy Act promotes energy
efficiency, alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric
utilities. The Company is positioning its business to meet the challenge of this
major change in the traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy Act
allows Independent Power Producers (IPPs) to access a utility's transmission
network in order to sell electricity to other utilities. This enhances the
incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for a utility's large industrial
and commercial customers and sell energy generation to other utilities. Also,
electricity sales for resale rates are being driven down by wholesale
transmission access and numerous potential new energy suppliers, including power
marketers and brokers. The Company is aggressively working to maintain and
expand its share of wholesale sales in the Southeastern power markets.

     Various federal and state initiatives designed to promote wholesale and
retail competition, among other things, include proposals that would allow
customers to choose their electricity provider.  As the initiatives 
materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically change.
Certain initiatives could result in a change in the ownership and/or
operation of generation and transmission facilities.  Numerous issues must be
resolved, including significant ones relating to transmission pricing and
recovery of stranded investments.  Being a low-cost producer could provide
significant opportunities to increase market share and profitability in 
markets that evolve with changing regulation.  Unless the Company remains a
low-cost producer and provides quality service, the Company's retail energy 
sales growth could be limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.
 
    Mississippi Power is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting
Standards Board Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to these provisions, the Company would be required to write off related
regulatory assets and liabilities, and determine if any other assets have been
impaired. See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Regulatory Assets and
Liabilities" for additional information.


                                      II-188



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

The principal changes in Mississippi Power's financial condition during 1996
were gross property additions to utility plant of $61 million. Funding for gross
property additions and other capital requirements have been provided from
operating activities, principally earnings and the non-cash charges to income of
depreciation and amortization, and other long-term debt. The Statements of Cash
Flows provide additional details.

Financing Activity

Retirements, including maturities during 1996, primarily related to other
long-term debt and first mortgage bonds, totaled some $100 million. In 1996, the
Company obtained $80 million of long-term bank notes. (See the Statements of
Cash Flows for further details.) Composite financing rates for the years 1994
through 1996 as of year-end were as follows:

                                   1996      1995     1994
                                 -----------------------------
   Composite interest rate on
       long-term debt              6.03%     6.63%    6.44%

   Composite preferred stock
       dividend rate               6.58%     6.58%    6.58%
   -----------------------------------------------------------

    The decrease in composite interest rate on long-term debt in 1996 is
primarily the result of the retirement of higher cost first mortgage bonds.

Capital Structure

At year-end 1996, the Company's ratio of common equity to total capitalization,
excluding long-term debt due within one year, was 48.9 percent, compared to 50.8
percent in 1995. The decrease in equity ratio in 1996 is attributed primarily to
a 13.0 percent increase in long-term debt, excluding amounts due in one year.

Capital Requirements for Construction

The Company's projected construction expenditures for the next three years total
$231 million ($57 million in 1997, $58 million in 1998, and $116 million in
1999). The major emphasis within the construction program will be on upgrading
existing facilities and the possible addition of a combined cycle unit.
Revisions may be necessary because of factors such as changes in business
conditions, revised load projections, the availability and cost of capital, and
changes in environmental regulations.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds required for the Company's construction program,
approximately $85.1 million will be required by the end of 1999 for present
sinking fund requirements and maturities of long-term debt. Mississippi Power
plans to continue, when economically feasible, to retire higher cost debt and
preferred stock and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital if market
conditions permit.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- has significantly
impacted Mississippi Power and the other operating companies of Southern
Company. Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from
fossil-fired generating plants are required in two phases. Phase I compliance
began in 1995 and initially affected 28 generating plants in the Southern
electric system. As a result of Southern Company's compliance strategy, an
additional 22 generating units were brought into compliance with Phase I
requirements. Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired
generating plants will be affected.

    In 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began issuing annual
sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the allowance trading program. An
emission allowance is the authority to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a
calendar year. The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to
minimize the cost of compliance. Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to take advantage of allowances as a compliance option.

    Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which has required some equipment
upgrades. This compliance strategy resulted in unused emission allowances being
banked for later use. Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled
approximately $65 million for Mississippi Power.


                                      II-189


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report

    For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired plants as required
to meet Phase II limits. Therefore, current compliance strategy for Mississippi
Power could require total Phase II estimated construction expenditures of
approximately $4 million, all of which remains to be spent. However, the full
impact of Phase II compliance cannot now be determined with certainty, pending
the continuing development of a market for emission allowances, the completion
of EPA regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction technologies.

    An average increase of up to 2 percent in revenue requirements from
customers could be necessary to fully recover the Company's cost of compliance
for both Phase I and Phase II of Title IV of the Clean Air Act. Compliance costs
include construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to low-sulfur
coal, and costs related to emission allowances.

    Mississippi Power's ECO Plan is designed to allow recovery of costs of
compliance with the Clean Air Act, as well as other environmental statutes and
regulations. The MPSC reviews environmental projects and the Company's
environmental policy through the ECO Plan. Under the ECO Plan, any increase in
the annual revenue requirement is limited to 2 percent of retail revenues.
Mississippi Power's management believes that the ECO Plan provides for recovery
of the Clean Air Act costs. See Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Environmental Compliance Overview Plan" for additional information.

    A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

    The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various matters including: revisions to the ambient air quality
standards for ozone and particulate matter; emission control strategies for
ozone nonattainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant
emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.

    The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations, the Company could incur costs to clean up properties currently or
previously owned. Upon identifying potential sites, the Company conducts
studies, when possible, to determine the extent of any required cleanup costs.
Should remediation be determined to be probable, reasonable estimates of costs
to clean up such sites are developed and recognized in the financial statements.
A currently owned site where manufactured gas plant operations were located
prior to the Company's ownership is being investigated for potential
remediation. See Note 3 to the financial statements under "Environmental
Compliance Overview Plan" for additional information.

    Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; and the Endangered
Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect many areas of the Company's
operations. The full impact of any such changes cannot be determined at this
time.

    Compliance with possible new legislation related to global climate change,
electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns could
significantly affect the Company. The impact of new legislation -- if any --
will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable
regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the result of
lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.


                                      II-190

  
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Sources of Capital

At December 31, 1996, the Company had $76.3 million of unused committed credit
agreements. The Company had no short-term notes payable outstanding at year end
1996.

    In February 1997, Mississippi Power Capital Trust I (Trust I), of which the
Company owns all the common securities, issued $35 million of 7.75 percent
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Substantially all of the assets of
Trust I are $36 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.75 percent
junior subordinated notes due February 15, 2037.

    It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be derived
from operations, the sale of additional first mortgage bonds, pollution control
obligations, and preferred stock, and the receipt of additional capital
contributions from Southern Company. Mississippi Power is required to meet
certain coverage requirements specified in its mortgage indenture and corporate
charter to issue new first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. The Company's
coverage ratios are sufficiently high enough to permit, at present interest rate
levels, any foreseeable security sales. The amount of securities which the
Company will be permitted to issue in the future will depend upon market
conditions and other factors prevailing at that time.


                                      II-191

 





                                      II-192





                                      II-193





                                     II-194

  



                                      II-195

 



                                      II-196

 





                                      II-197

   

                                                         
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

General

Mississippi Power Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Company,
which is the parent company of five operating companies, Southern Company
Services (SCS), Southern Communications Services (Southern Communications),
Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear Operating Company
(Southern Nuclear), and The Southern Development and Investment Group (Southern
Development), and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The operating
companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company,
Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah Electric and Power Company) provide
electric service in four southeastern states. Contracts among the
companies--dealing with jointly owned generating facilities, interconnecting
transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power--are regulated by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the Securities and Exchange
Commission. SCS provides, at cost, specialized services to Southern Company and
to the subsidiary companies. Southern Communications provides digital wireless
communications services to the operating companies and also markets these
services to the public within the Southeast. Southern Energy designs, builds,
owns, and operates power production and delivery facilities and provides a broad
range of energy related services in the United States and international markets.
Southern Nuclear provides services to Southern Company's nuclear power plants.
Southern Development develops new business opportunities related to energy
products and services.

    Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its subsidiaries
are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. Mississippi Power is also
subject to regulation by the FERC and the Mississippi Public Service Commission
(MPSC). The Company follows generally accepted accounting principles and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the respective
commissions. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and the
actual results may differ from those estimates.

    Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

Mississippi Power is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the Company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are to be credited to
customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Balance Sheets as of December 31 relate to:

                                            1996         1995
                                       -------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Deferred income taxes                     $22,274      $23,384
Vacation pay                                4,806        4,715
Work force reduction costs                  1,991        7,286
Deferred fuel charges                           -        1,546
Premium on reacquired debt                 10,672        8,509
Deferred environmental costs                1,679        1,713
Property damage reserve                   (12,955)     (12,018)
Deferred income tax credits               (40,568)     (43,266)
Other, net                                 (2,882)      (2,658)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                    $(14,983)   $ (10,789)
================================================================

    In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer subject
to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the Company would be required to write
off the related regulatory assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company
would be required to determine any impairment to other assets, including plant,
and, if impaired, to write down the assets to their fair value.

Revenues

Mississippi Power accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end
of each fiscal period. The Company's retail and wholesale rates include
provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel and the energy component
of purchased power. Retail rates also include provisions to adjust billings for
fluctuations in costs for ad valorem taxes and certain qualifying environmental
costs. 

                                      II-198

   

NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Revenues are adjusted for differences between actual allowable amounts
and the amounts included in rates.

    The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or
industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1996, uncollectible
accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.

Depreciation

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided by using composite straight-line rates which approximated 3.3 percent
in 1996, and 3.2 percent in both 1995 and 1994. When property subject to
depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property
included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property
unit is retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected cost
of removal of facilities.

Income Taxes

Mississippi Power uses the liability method of accounting for deferred income
taxes and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The composite rates used to capitalize the cost of funds
devoted to construction were 7.5 percent in 1996, 8.0 percent in 1995, and 6.9
percent in 1994. AFUDC (net of income taxes), as a percent of net income after
dividends on preferred stock, was 1.5 percent in 1996, 1.2 percent in 1995, and
3.5 percent in 1994.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost. This cost includes: materials; labor;
minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction. The cost of maintenance,
repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense except for the maintenance of coal cars and a portion of the railway
track maintenance, which are charged to fuel stock. The cost of replacements of
property (exclusive of minor items of property) is charged to utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

Financial Instruments

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosure About Fair Value of
Financial Instruments, all financial instruments of the Company for which the
carrying amount does not approximate fair value, must be disclosed. At December
31, 1996, the fair value of long-term debt was $324 million and the carrying
amount was $326 million. At December 31, 1995, the fair value of long-term debt
was $355 million and the carrying amount was $346 million. The fair value for
long-term debt was based on either closing market price or closing price of
comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission, distribution
and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory when
purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when used
or installed.


                                      II-199

  
NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


Provision for Property Damage

Mississippi Power is self-insured for the cost of storm, fire and other
uninsured casualty damage to its property, including transmission and
distribution facilities. As permitted by regulatory authorities, the Company
provided for such costs by charges to income of $1.5 million in both 1996 and
1995 and $1.1 million in 1994. The cost of repairing damage resulting from such
events that individually exceed $50 thousand is charged to the accumulated
provision to the extent it is available. Effective January 1995, regulatory
treatment by the MPSC allowed a maximum accumulated provision of $18 million. As
of December 31, 1996, the accumulated provision amounted to $13.0 million.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

Mississippi Power has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan
that covers substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on one of
the following formulas: years of service and final average pay or years of
service and a flat-dollar benefit. The Company uses the "entry age normal method
with a frozen initial liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject
to limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the
pension trust are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities. FASB
Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

Mississippi Power also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits
for retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. Trusts are funded to the extent required by the
Company's regulatory commissions. Amounts funded are primarily invested in debt
and equity securities.

    FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." The cost of postretirement
benefits is reflected in rates on a current basis.

Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The following tables show actuarial results and assumptions for pension and
postretirement benefits as computed under the requirements of FASB Statement
Nos. 87 and 106, respectively. The funded status of the plans at December 31 was
as follows:

                                                 Pension
                                         ------------------------
                                             1996        1995
                                         ------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
   Actuarial present value 
     of benefit obligation:
        Vested benefits                   $92,091     $91,322
        Non-vested benefits                 5,191       4,264
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Accumulated benefit obligation          97,282      95,586
   Additional amounts related to
      projected salary increases           30,552      28,545
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Projected benefit obligation           127,834     124,131
   Less:
      Fair value of plan assets           179,658     170,481
      Unrecognized net gain               (56,674)    (47,034)
      Unrecognized prior service cost       6,422       2,868
      Unrecognized transition asset        (5,449)     (6,001)
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Accrued liability recognized
      in the Balance Sheets                $3,877      $3,817
   ==============================================================


                                       Postretirement Benefits
                                       ------------------------
                                           1996         1995
                                       ------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
   Actuarial present value of 
     benefit obligation:
       Retirees and dependents          $20,841      $22,575
       Employees eligible to retire       2,703        1,709
       Other employees                   17,564       17,908
   ------------------------------------------------------------
   Accumulated benefit obligation        41,108       42,192
   Less:
       Fair value of plan assets         10,210        8,700
       Unrecognized net loss              1,136        4,160
       Unrecognized transition
        obligation                        5,911        7,044
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Accrued liability recognized in
       the Balance Sheets               $23,851      $22,288
   ==============================================================



                                      II-200



NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


    In 1995, Southern Company's subsidiaries announced a cost sharing program
for postretirement benefits. The program established limits on amounts the
companies will pay to provide future retiree postretirement benefits. This
change reduced the Company's 1995 accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
by approximately $10.5 million.

    The weighted average rates assumed in the above actuarial calculations were:

                                 1996        1995        1994
                              ---------------------------------
   Discount                      7.8%        7.3%         8.0%
   Annual salary increase        5.3         4.8          5.5
   Long-term return on
     plan assets                 8.5         8.5          8.5
   ------------------------------------------------------------

    An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 9.3
percent for 1996, decreasing gradually to 5.8 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation as of December 31, 1996, by $3.2 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net retiree cost by $0.3 million.

    Components of the plans' net cost are shown below:

                                               Pension
                                 --------------------------------
                                   1996         1995       1994
                                 --------------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
   Benefits earned during
      the year                  $  3,842      $ 3,636   $ 3,780
   Interest cost on
      projected benefit
      obligation                   9,310        8,434     7,503
   Actual (return) loss on
      plan assets                (20,438)     (32,232)    3,244
   Net amortization and
      deferral                     6,442       18,650   (16,048)
   ==============================================================
   Net pension income          $    (844)    $ (1,512) $ (1,521)
   ==============================================================

    Of the above net pension income, $(0.6) million in 1996,
and $(1.1) million in both 1995 and 1994 were recorded in operating expenses,
and the remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.


                                        Postretirement Benefits

                                     ------------------------------
                                        1996      1995       1994
                                     ------------------------------
                                             (in thousands)
   Benefits earned during the year   $   958    $1,525      $1,760
   Interest cost on accumulated
      benefit obligation               2,830     3,442       3,251
   Amortization of transition
      obligation over 20 years           362     1,027       1,043
   Actual (return) loss on
      plan assets                       (990)   (1,436)        132
   Net amortization and deferral         312       851        (575)
   ================================================================
   Net postretirement costs           $3,472    $5,409      $5,611
   ================================================================

    Of the above net postretirement costs recorded, $2.8 million in 1996, $3.9
million in 1995, and $4.4 million in 1994 were recorded in operating expenses,
and the remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.

Work Force Reduction Programs

During 1994, Mississippi Power and SCS instituted work force reduction programs.
The costs of the SCS work force reduction program were apportioned among the
various entities that form the Southern electric system, with the Company's
portion amounting to $1.4 million. The Company instituted an early retirement
incentive program in April 1994 and deferred the related costs of approximately
$12.9 million. The Company received authority from the MPSC to defer these
costs, as well as its portion of the costs of the SCS program, and to amortize
over a period not to exceed 60 months, beginning no later than January 1995. The
Company expensed $5.3 million, $4.0 million and $3.0 million of the cost of
these programs in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. In 1996, Mississippi Power
expensed its pro-rata share of the costs for affiliated companies' programs of
$1.9 million.

3.  LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

Retail Rate Adjustment Plans

Mississippi Power's retail base rates are set under a Performance Evaluation
Plan (PEP). In January 1994, the MPSC approved PEP-2. PEP-2 was designed with
the MPSC objectives that the plan would reduce the impact of rate changes on the
customer and provide incentives for Mississippi Power to keep customer prices
low. PEP-2 includes a mechanism for sharing rate adjustments based on the
Company's ability to maintain low rates for customers and on the Company's



                                      II-201


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report

performance as measured by three indicators that emphasize price and service to
the customer. PEP-2 provides for semiannual evaluations of Mississippi's
performance-based return on investment. Any change in rates is limited to 2
percent of retail revenues per evaluation period. PEP-2 will remain in effect
until the MPSC modifies or terminates the plan. During 1995 and 1994, there were
no changes under PEP-2. In September 1996, the MPSC under PEP-2 approved a
retail revenue increase of $4.5 million (1.06 percent of annual retail revenue)
which became effective in October 1996.

FERC Reviews Equity Returns

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the operating companies' wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on equity of 13.75 percent or greater. The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar contracts,
including the Company's transmission facilities agreement discussed in Note 5
under "Lease Agreements."

    In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest. The FERC staff
has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the matter
remains pending before the FERC.

    In August 1994, the FERC instituted another proceeding based on
substantially the same issues as in the 1991 proceeding. In November 1995, a
FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that the FERC staff failed to
meet its burden of proof, and therefore, no change in the equity return was
necessary. The FERC staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's
opinion, and the matter is pending before the FERC.

    If the rates of return on common equity recommended by the FERC staff were
applied to all of the schedules and contracts involved in both proceedings -- as
well as certain other contracts that reference these proceedings in determining
return on common equity -- and if refunds were ordered, the amount of refunds
could range up to approximately $3.4 million for Mississippi Power at December
31, 1996. However, management believes that rates are not excessive, and that
refunds are not justified.

Environmental Compliance Overview Plan

The MPSC approved Mississippi Power's ECO Plan in 1992. The plan establishes
procedures to facilitate the MPSC's overview of the Company's environmental
strategy and provides for recovery of costs (including costs of capital)
associated with environmental projects approved by the MPSC. In November 1995,
the MPSC ordered a change in accounting treatment allowing emission allowance
expenses to be recovered through the Company's fuel adjustment clause, and
emission allowance inventory costs to be recovered through PEP-2 rather than
through the ECO Plan. Under the ECO Plan any increase in the annual revenue
requirement is limited to 2 percent of retail revenues. However, the plan also
provides for carryover of any amount over the 2 percent limit into the next
year's revenue requirement. The ECO Plan had previously resulted in an annual
retail rate increase of $3.7 million, effective in May 1995 which included $1.6
million of 1994 carryover and an annual retail rate increase of $7.6 million,
effective in April 1994. The Company's 1996 annual filing under the ECO Plan
resulted in a $3.0 million decrease in retail rates, effective in April 1996. On
January 31, 1997, the Company filed with the MPSC under the ECO Plan a request
for an annual retail rate increase of $0.9 million.

    Mississippi Power conducts studies, when possible, to determine the extent
of any required clean-up costs. Should remediation be determined to be probable,
reasonable estimates of costs to clean up such sites are developed and
recognized in the financial statements. A currently owned site where
manufactured gas plant operations were located prior to the Company's ownership
is being investigated for potential remediation. The remedial investigation is
near completion and is being conducted in conjunction with the Mississippi
Department of Environmental Quality. In recognition of probable further study
and remediation, the Company in 1995 recorded a liability and a deferred debit
(regulatory asset) of $1.8 million, including feasibility study costs. The
Company recognizes such costs as they are incurred and recovers them under the
ECO Plan as provided in the Company's 1995 ECO order. As of December 31, 1996,
the balance in the liability and regulatory asset accounts was $1.7 million,
including additional feasibility study costs. If this site were required to be
remediated, industry studies show the Company could incur cleanup costs ranging
from $1.5 million to $10 million before giving consideration to possible
recovery of clean-up costs from other parties.



                                      II-202


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

Mississippi Power is engaged in continuous construction programs, the costs of
which are currently estimated to total $57 million in 1997, $58 million in 1998,
and $116 million in 1999.

    The construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and
actual construction costs may vary from
the above estimates because of numerous factors. These factors include changes
in business conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental
regulations; increasing costs of labor, equipment and materials; and cost of
capital. The Company does not currently have any new generating plants under
construction. However, significant construction will continue related to
transmission and distribution facilities, the upgrading of generating plants,
and the possible addition of a combined cycle unit.

5.  FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS

Financing

Mississippi Power's construction program is expected to be financed from
internal and other sources, such as the issuance of additional long-term debt
and preferred stock and the receipt of capital contributions from Southern
Company.

    The amounts of first mortgage bonds and preferred stock which can be issued
in the future will be contingent upon market conditions, adequate earnings
levels, regulatory authorizations and other factors.

    At December 31, 1996, Mississippi Power had total committed credit
agreements with banks for $96.3 million. At year-end 1996, the unused portion of
these committed credit agreements was $76.3 million. These credit agreements
expire at various dates in 1997 and in 1999. Some of these agreements allow
short-term borrowings to be converted into term loans, payable in 12 equal
quarterly installments, with the first installment due at the end of the first
calendar quarter after the applicable termination date or at an earlier date at
the Company's option. In connection with these credit arrangements, the Company
agrees to pay commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments or
to maintain compensating balances with the banks. At December 31, 1996, the
Company had no short-term borrowings outstanding.

Assets Subject to Lien

Mississippi Power's mortgage indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, as amended
and supplemented, which secures the first mortgage bonds issued by the Company,
constitutes a direct first lien on substantially all the Company's fixed
property and franchises.

Lease Agreements

In 1984, Mississippi Power and Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States)
entered into a forty-year transmission facilities agreement whereby Gulf States
began paying a use fee to the Company covering all expenses relative to
ownership and operation and maintenance of a 500 kV line, including amortization
of its original $57 million cost. For the three years ended 1996 use fees
collected under this agreement, net of related expenses, amounted to $3.7
million each year, and are included within Other Income, in the Statements of
Income.

    In 1989, Mississippi Power entered into a twenty-two
year lease agreement for the use of 495 aluminum railcars. In 1994, a second
lease agreement for the use of 250 additional aluminum railcars was also entered
into for twenty-two years. Both of these leases, totaling 745 railcars, were for
the transport of coal at Plant Daniel. Gulf Power, as joint owner of Plant
Daniel, is responsible for one half of the lease cost. The Company's share (50%)
of the leases is charged to fuel inventory and allocated to fuel expense as the
fuel is consumed. The lease cost charged to inventory was $1.7 million in both
1996 and 1995, and $1.2 million in 1994. The Company's annual lease payments for
1997 through 2001 will be approximately $1.7 million and after 2001, lease
payments total in aggregate approximately $20.7 million. The Company has the
option to purchase the 745 railcars at the greater of the termination value or
the fair market value, or to renew the leases at the end of the lease term.

Fuel and Purchased Power Commitments

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants,
Mississippi Power has entered into various long-term commitments for the
procurement of fuel. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for price
escalations, minimum production levels, and other financial commitments.



                                      II-203

  
NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


Total estimated obligations at December 31, 1996 were as follows:

    Year                                       Fuel
- --------------                          --------------
                                         (in millions)
    1997                                       $129
    1998                                        127
    1999                                         91
- ------------------------------------------------------
    Total commitments                          $347
- ------------------------------------------------------

Additional commitments for fuel will be required in the future to supply the
Company's fuel needs.

     Mississippi Power entered into agreements to purchase summer peaking power
and options for power for the years 1996 through 2000. For June through
September of 1996, the Company entered into an agreement to buy 242 megawatts of
capacity and energy from another electric utility. For each June through
September period of 1997 through 2000, the Company has purchased options from
power marketers for up to 250 megawatts of peaking power in 1997; 300 megawatts
in 1998; 350 megawatts in 1999; and 400 megawatts in 2000. In June 1996, the
MPSC approved Mississippi Power's request that it be allowed to earn a return on
the capacity portion of these agreements.

6.  JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

Mississippi Power and Alabama Power own as tenants in common Greene County
Electric Generating Plant (coal) located in Alabama; and Mississippi Power and
Gulf Power own as tenants in common Daniel Electric Generating Plant (coal)
located in Mississippi. At December 31, 1996, Mississippi Power's percentage
ownership and investment in these jointly owned facilities were as follows:

                                           Company's
   Generating     Total       Percent       Gross     Accumulated
      Plant      Capacity    Ownership    Investment  Depreciation
   ----------    --------   -----------   ----------  ------------
                (Megawatts)                    (in thousands)
   Greene
     County         500         40%       $ 59,102       $ 33,010

   Daniel         1,000         50%        221,211         97,910
   ----------------------------------------------------------------

    Mississippi Power's share of plant operating expenses is included in the
corresponding operating expenses in the Statements of Income.

7.  LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

General

Mississippi Power and the other operating affiliates of Southern Company have
long-term contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain
non-affiliated utilities located outside the system's service area. Some of
these agreements (unit power sales) are firm commitments and pertain to capacity
related to specific generating units. Mississippi Power's participation in firm
production capacity unit power sales ended in 1989. Because the energy is
generally sold at cost under these agreements, profitability is primarily
affected by revenues from capacity sales. The capacity revenues have been as
follows:

                                     Other
   Year         Unit Power         Long-Term             Total
   ------------------------------------------------------------
                           (in thousands)
   1996           $     -            $     -           $    -
   1995               268                  -              268
   1994               660              1,305            1,965

8.  INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1996, the tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $22
million and $41 million, respectively. These assets are attributable to tax
benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to
capitalized AFUDC. These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes
previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.


                                      II-204


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


    Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are shown below:

                                     1996        1995       1994
                                 ---------------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
   Total provision for
      income taxes
   Federal --
      Currently  payable          $29,888     $32,546    $26,072
      Deferred  --current year     13,816       5,122      6,313
                --reversal of
                 prior years      (14,913)     (7,039)    (5,161)
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                   28,791      30,629     27,224
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   State --
      Currently payable             3,588       3,426      3,978
      Deferred  --current           4,727       2,270      1,669
                --reversal of
                 prior years       (3,556)       (833)    (1,258)
    ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                    4,759       4,863      4,389
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                           33,550      35,492     31,613
   Less income taxes charged
      to other income                 932       1,006        227
   ---------------------------------------------------------------
   Federal and state
      income taxes charged
      to operations               $32,618     $34,486    $31,386
   ===============================================================


    The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

                                        1996             1995
                                   -----------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
   Deferred tax liabilities:
      Accelerated depreciation      $148,667         $145,093
      Basis differences               10,507           10,815
      Coal contract buyouts                -              145
      Other                           19,285           16,478
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                             178,459          172,531
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Deferred tax assets:
      Other property
       basis differences              24,434           25,951
      Pension and
            other benefits             8,750            7,356
      Property insurance               4,955            4,551
      Unbilled fuel                    2,808            3,039
      Other                           11,302            7,103
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                              52,249           48,000
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Net deferred tax
      liabilities                    126,210          124,531
   Portion included in
      current assets, net              7,227            5,180
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Accumulated deferred
      income taxes in the
      Balance Sheets                $133,437         $129,711
   =============================================================

    Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $1.4 million in 1996, and $1.5 million in 1995 and 1994. At December
31, 1996, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes
payable had been utilized.

    A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                    1996      1995        1994
                                   -----------------------------
   Total effective tax rate          37%       38%          37%
   State income tax, net of
      federal income tax benefit     (3)       (3)          (3)%
   Tax rate differential              1         -            1
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Statutory federal tax rate        35%       35%          35%
   =============================================================

    Mississippi Power and the subsidiaries of Southern Company file a
consolidated federal income tax return. Under a joint consolidated income tax



                                      II-205

 
NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report

agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the parent company are allocated
to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable income to total consolidated
taxable income.

9.  OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of pollution control obligations and other long-term debt are as
follows:

                                                December 31,
                                              1996        1995
                                          ---------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Obligations incurred in
  connection with the sale by
  public authorities of
  tax-exempt pollution control
  revenue bonds:
     5.80% due 2007                      $     960    $     970
     Variable rate due 2020                  6,550        6,550
     Variable rate due 2022                 16,750       16,750
     6.20% due 2023                         13,000       13,000
     5.65% due 2023                         25,875       25,875
     Variable due 2025                      10,600       10,600
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                            73,735       73,745
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Other long-term debt:
  Variable rates due 1996                        -       55,000
  Variable rates (5.80797% to
    5.88906% at 1/1/97) due 1999            50,000            -  
  Variable rate due 2000                    30,000            -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                            80,000       55,000
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
      Total                               $153,735     $128,745
===============================================================

    Pollution control obligations represent installment or
lease purchases of pollution control facilities financed by application of funds
derived from sales by public authorities of tax-exempt revenue bonds.
Mississippi Power has authenticated and delivered to the Trustee a like
principal amount of first mortgage bonds as security for obligations under
collateralized installment agreements. The principal and interest on the first
mortgage bonds will be payable only in the event of default under these
agreements. The 5.80% series of pollution control obligations has a cash sinking
fund requirement of $10 thousand for 1997 and $20 thousand annually in 1998,
1999, 2000 and 2001.

10. LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year is as follows:

                                              1996        1995
                                            --------------------
                                               (in thousands)
   Bond improvement
      fund requirements                      $1,750    $  2,219

   Less:
      Portion to be satisfied by
      certifying property additions           1,750           -
   -------------------------------------------------------------
   Cash improvement fund
      requirements                                -       2,219
   Pollution control bond cash
      sinking fund requirements (Note 9)         10          10
   Current portion of notes
      payable (Note 9)                            -      55,000
   =============================================================
   Total                                     $   10     $57,229
   =============================================================

    The first mortgage bond improvement fund requirement is one percent of each
outstanding series authenticated under the indenture of Mississippi Power prior
to January 1 of each year, other than first mortgage bonds issued as collateral
security for certain pollution control obligations. The requirement must be
satisfied by June 1 of each year by depositing cash or reacquiring bonds, or by
pledging additional property equal to 166-2/3 percent of such requirement.

11. COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

Mississippi Power's first mortgage bond indenture and the corporate charter
contain various common stock dividend restrictions. At December 31, 1996,
approximately $118 million of retained earnings was restricted against the
payment of cash dividends on common stock under the most restrictive terms of
the mortgage indenture or corporate charter.


                                      II-206


NOTES (continued)
Mississippi Power Company 1996 Annual Report


12. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA  (UNAUDITED)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1996 and 1995 are as follows:

                                                      Net Income
                                                   After Dividends
   Quarter                Operating    Operating          On
   Ended                  Revenues     Income       Preferred Stock
   -------------------------------------------------------------------

   March 1996               $126,954     $18,074        $11,695
   June 1996                 136,749      17,691         11,400
   September 1996            156,603      27,670         21,784
   December 1996             123,723      13,636          7,844

   March 1995               $109,572     $15,729        $ 9,269
   June 1995                 128,504      22,193         14,737
   September 1995            157,119      28,517         22,161
   December 1995             121,358      12,171          6,364

    Mississippi Power's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions
and the timing of rate changes.


                                      II-207





                                      II-208

  



                                      II-209A

  



                                      II-209B

  


                                      II-210





                                      II-211A





                                      II-211B

    
STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Mississippi Power Company


                                    
                                     II-212



STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Mississippi Power Company

 
                                     II-213A



STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Mississippi Power Company

 


                                   II-213B


STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Mississippi Power Company


                                     II-214



STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Mississippi Power Company


                                    II-215A


STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Mississippi Power Company


                                    II-215B


BALANCE SHEETS
Mississippi Power Company



BALANCE SHEETS
Mississippi Power Company



                                     II-217A


BALANCE SHEETS
Mississippi Power Company
                               

                                     II-217B



BALANCE SHEETS
Mississippi Power Company



                                     II-218



BALANCE SHEETS  
Mississippi Power Company 

                                    
                                    II-219A


BALANCE SHEETS
Mississippi Power Company

                               

                                     II-219B




                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY
                           OUTSTANDING SECURITIES AT DECEMBER 31, 1996



                                     II-220




                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

                         SECURITIES RETIRED DURING 1996

                              First Mortgage Bonds
                                     Principal                 Interest
      Series                          Amount                     Rate
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      (Thousands)
       1991                             45,447                  9-1/4% 

                            Pollution Control Bonds
                                     Principal                  Interest
      Series                          Amount                      Rate
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      (Thousands)
       1977                                 10                  5.80% 

                                     II-221















                       SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
                    
                                FINANCIAL SECTION




                                     II-5



MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report

The management of Savannah Electric and Power Company has prepared--and is
responsible for--the financial statements and related information included in
this report. These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily
include amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of
management. Financial information throughout this annual report is consistent
with the financial statements.

     The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company. Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits. The Company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit relationship.

     The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff. The Company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system
in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the financial statements.

    The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of three directors
who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
reporting and control functions. Periodically, this committee meets with
management, the internal auditors and the independent public accountants to
ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls and financial reporting matters. The internal
auditors and the independent public accountants have access to the members of
the audit committee at any time.

     Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

     In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position, results of operations, and cash flows
of Savannah Electric and Power Company in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.


/s/ Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr.
Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr.
President
and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ K. R. Willis
K. R. Willis
Vice-President
Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer


February 12, 1997


                                      II-223


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors of Savannah Electric and Power Company:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of capitalization
of Savannah Electric and Power Company (a Georgia corporation and a wholly owned
subsidiary of Southern Company) as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
related statements of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1996. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-230 through II-242)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Savannah Electric and Power Company as of December 31, 1996 and
1995, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.




/s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997



                                      II-224

   

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Savannah Electric and Power Company's net income after dividends on preferred
stock for 1996 totaled $23.9 million, representing a $0.5 million increase over
the prior year. This 2.3 percent improvement in earnings over 1995 is
principally the result of increased retail energy sales primarily attributable
to an increase in the number of customers served.

     In 1995, earnings were $23.4 million, representing a $1.3 million (5.8
percent) increase from the prior year. This was primarily due to higher retail
energy sales as a result of exceptionally hot summer weather.

Revenues

Total revenues for 1996 were $234.1 million, reflecting a 3.7 percent increase
compared to 1995. The following table summarizes revenue increases and decreases
compared to prior years:

                                       Increase (Decrease)
                                         From Prior Year
                               --------------------------------------
                                    1996        1995        1994
                               --------------------------------------
  Retail --                               (in thousands)
     Sales growth                $ 3,679      $ 1,068     $ 7,884
     Weather                      (2,813)       6,232      (6,589)
     Fuel cost recovery
       and other                  12,365        6,177      (9,214)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total retail                    13,231       13,477      (7,919)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Sales for resale--
     Non-affiliates                  147       (2,935)     (1,235)
     Affiliates                   (4,070)         754       4,013
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total sales for resale          (3,923)      (2,181)      2,778
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Other operating revenues          (963)       2,648      (1,516)
  -------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total operating revenues       $ 8,345      $13,944     $(6,657)
  ===================================================================
  Percent change                     3.7%         6.6%       (3.0)%
  -------------------------------------------------------------------

     Retail revenues increased 6.2 percent in 1996, compared to an increase of
6.7 percent in 1995. The increase in 1996 retail revenues is attributable to an
increase in the number of customers served and an increase in fuel cost recovery
revenues. Industrial energy sales were lower primarily due to a decrease in the
demand of a major customer. Under the Company's fuel cost recovery provisions,
fuel revenues--including purchased energy--generally equal fuel expense and have
no effect on earnings. The $1.0 million decrease in other operating revenues
reflects the elimination of the demand-side management rider in 1995. Revenues
from demand-side management riders (included in retail revenues) recovered
demand-side management program costs and had little impact on earnings. See Note
3 to the financial statements for further information on the Company's
demand-side management programs.

    The increase in 1995 retail revenues was attributable to hot summer weather,
an increase in the number of customers served, higher demand in the industrial
sector, and an increase in fuel cost recovery revenues.

     Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area under long-term
contracts consist of capacity and energy components. Capacity revenues reflect
the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the contracts.
Energy is generally sold at variable cost. Capacity revenues continued to
decrease in 1996 primarily as a result of the scheduled decline in megawatts of
capacity under contract. The capacity and energy components were as follows:

                         1996       1995        1994
                     ---------------------------------
                                (in thousands)
Capacity               $    2     $    3      $  448
Energy                  1,329      1,250       3,052
- ------------------------------------------------------
Total                  $1,331     $1,253      $3,500
======================================================

     Sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric system vary from
year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating
resources at each company. These sales have little impact on earnings.


                                      II-225


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


     Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the amount of energy sold
each year. Kilowatt-hour sales for 1996 and the percent change by year were as
follows:

                          KWH                Percent Change
                      ------------     ---------------------------
                         1996             1996    1995      1994
                      ------------     ---------------------------
                       (millions)
Residential                 1,457         3.9%     8.0%     (2.3)%
Commercial                  1,141         3.8      5.1       2.9
Industrial                    839        (5.5)    11.0      (6.4)
Other                         126         0.1      5.4       3.1
                      ------------
Total retail                3,563         1.4      7.7      (1.6)
Sales for resale
  Non-affiliates               91         4.4    (56.5)    (18.4)
  Affiliates                   42       (34.4)   (31.5)     23.4
                      ------------
Total                       3,696         0.8%     3.1%     (2.2)%
==================================================================

Expenses

Total operating expenses for 1996 were $195.2 million, reflecting an $7.7
million increase over 1995. Major components of this increase include $5.3
million in purchased power from affiliates and $3.8 million in fuel, partially
offset by a $1.2 million reduction in other operation expenses. The increase in
purchased power from affiliates was due to an increase in the unit cost of
purchased power. The increase in fuel expense was primarily attributable to
higher generation and an increase in the unit cost of gas. The reduction in
other operation expense primarily resulted from the demand-side management
program being discontinued in December 1995.

     In 1995, total operating expenses were $187.5 million, reflecting an $11.8
million increase from 1994. This increase includes $6.8 million in fuel, $3.6
million in other operation, $1.1 million in maintenance, and $1.1 million in
depreciation and amortization, partially offset by a $2.6 million reduction in
purchased power from affiliates. The increase in fuel expense was primarily
attributable to the exceptionally hot summer weather, which not only increased
generation but also necessitated greater use of more costly gas-fired sources of
generation. The increase in other operation expense was due to increased
expenses related to demand-side management programs and employee incentive
compensation programs. The increase in maintenance expense reflects maintenance
performed at Plants Kraft and McIntosh during 1995, and the increase in
depreciation and amortization reflects the completion in 1994 of two combustion
turbine units.

     Fuel and purchased power costs constitute the single largest expense for
the Company. The mix of energy supply is determined primarily by system load,
the unit cost of fuel consumed and the availability of units.

     The amount and sources of energy supply, the average cost of fuel per net
kilowatt-hour generated, the average cost of purchased power per net
kilowatt-hour, and the total average cost of energy supply were as follows:

                                         1996     1995     1994
                                      --------------------------
 Total energy supply
    (millions of kilowatt-hours)        3,917    3,908    3,768
 Sources of energy supply
    (percent) --
      Coal                                 28       24       18
      Oil                                   -        -        1
      Gas                                   3        6        1
      Purchased Power                      69       70       80
 Average cost of fuel per net
    kilowatt-hour generated
    (cents) --
      Coal                               1.76     1.77     2.19
      Oil                                5.79     5.14     3.89
      Gas                                8.89     3.76     5.19
 Average cost of purchased
    power per net kilowatt-
    hour (cents)                         2.25     2.02     1.92
 Total average cost of
    energy supply                        2.30     2.07     2.02
 ---------------------------------------------------------------

Effects of Inflation

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs. Therefore, inflation creates an economic loss
because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in dollars that have
less purchasing power. While the inflation rate has been relatively low in
recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because of
the large investment in long-lived utility plant. Conventional accounting for
historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations such as long-term debt and preferred stock. Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.


                                      II-226



MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


Future Earnings Potential

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential. The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from energy sales growth to a less regulated, more
competitive environment.

     Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
which is subject to a number of factors. Traditionally, these factors included
weather, competition, changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, and the rate of
economic growth in the Company's service area. However, the Energy Policy Act of
1992 (Energy Act) is having a dramatic effect on the future of the electric
utility industry. The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency, alternative fuel
use, and increased competition for electric utilities. The Company is
positioning the business to meet the challenge of this major change in the
traditional practice of selling electricity. The Energy Act allows independent
power producers (IPPs) to access a utility's transmission network to sell
electricity to other utilities. This enhances the incentive for IPPs to build
cogeneration plants for a utility's large industrial and commercial customers
and sell energy generation to other utilities.

   Various federal and state initiatives designed to promote wholesale and
retail competition, among other things, include proposals that would allow
customers to choose their electricity provider.  As the initiatives 
materialize, the structure of the utility industry could radically change.
Certain initiatives could result in a change in the ownership and/or
operation of generation and transmission facilities.  Numerous issues must be
resolved, including significant ones relating to transmission pricing and
recovery of stranded investments.  Being a low-cost producer could provide
significant opportunities to increase market share and profitability in 
markets that evolve with changing regulation.  Unless the Company remains a
low-cost producer and provides quality service, the Company's retail energy 
sales growth could be limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

     The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to these provisions, the Company would be required to write off related
regulatory assets and liabilities and determine if any other assets have been
impaired. See Note 1 to the financial statements under "Regulatory Assets and
Liabilities" for additional information.

     Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air
Act) could affect earnings if such costs are not fully recovered. The Clean Air
Act is discussed later under "Environmental Matters."

     Rates to retail customers served by the Company are regulated by the
Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC). As part of the Company's most recent
rate settlement in 1992, it was informally agreed that the Company's earned rate
of return on common equity should be 12.95 percent. The Company is currently
undergoing an earnings review by the GPSC, and to date, the GPSC has made no
determination.

     In August 1995, the GPSC ordered the phase out of the Company's demand-side
management programs effective December 31, 1995 and the elimination of
demand-side management rate riders effective October 1, 1995. In June 1996, the
Company refunded to customers approximately $0.3 million which had been
overcollected from the rate riders.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

Overview

The principal change in the Company's financial condition in 1996 was the
addition of $29 million to utility plant. The funds needed for gross property
additions are currently provided from operating activities, principally from
earnings and non-cash charges to income such as depreciation and deferred income
taxes and from financing activities. See Statements of Cash Flows for additional
information.


                                      II-227


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Capital Structure

As of December 31, 1996, the Company's capital structure consisted of 46.7
percent common equity, 9.5 percent preferred stock and 43.8 percent long-term
debt, excluding amounts due within one year. The Company's long-term financial
objective for capitalization ratios is to maintain a capital structure of common
equity at 48 percent, preferred stock at 10 percent and debt at 42 percent.

     In May 1996, the Company issued $20 million of 6.90% first mortgage bonds
maturing in 2006 and $10 million of 6.88% term notes maturing in 2001.
Maturities and retirements of long-term debt were $29 million in 1996, $29
million in 1995 and $5 million in 1994.

     In March 1996, the Company entered into a fifteen year variable rate
capital lease agreement with the Savannah Economic Development Authority for a
coal ship docking and unloading facility at Plant Kraft.

     The composite interest rates and dividend rate for the years 1994 through
1996 as of year-end were as follows:

                                    1996        1995      1994
                                -------------------------------
Composite interest rates
   on long-term debt                 7.0%       7.5%      8.0%
Preferred stock dividend rate        6.6%       6.6%      6.6%
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

     The Company's current securities ratings are as follows:

                                                      Standard
                                         Moody's      & Poor's
                                       --------------------------

First Mortgage Bonds                       A1                A+
Preferred Stock                           "a2"               A
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

Capital Requirements for Construction

The Company's projected construction expenditures for the next three years total
$72 million ($26 million in 1997, $22 million in 1998, and $24 million in 1999).
Actual construction costs may vary from this estimate because of factors such as
changes in: business conditions; environmental regulations; load projections;
the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment and materials; and the
cost of capital. In addition, there can be no assurance that costs related to
capital expenditures will be fully recovered. The Company does not have any
traditional baseload generating plants under construction, and current energy
demand forecasts do not require any additional traditional baseload facilities
until well into the future. Construction of transmission and distribution
facilities and upgrading of generating plants will be continuing.

Other Capital Requirements

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately
$21.6 million will be needed by the end of 1999 for maturities of long-term debt
and present sinking fund requirements.

Environmental Matters

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law. Title IV of the Clean
Air Act--the acid rain compliance provision of the law--impacts the Company and
other subsidiaries of Southern Company. Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide
and nitrogen oxide emissions from fossil-fired generating plants are required in
two phases. Phase I compliance began in 1995 and initially affected 28
generating units of Southern Company. As a result of Southern Company's
compliance strategy, an additional 22 generating units, which included four of
the Company's units, were brought into compliance with Phase I requirements.
Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired generating plants
will be affected.

     In 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began issuing annual
sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the allowance trading program. An
emission allowance is the authority to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a
calendar year. The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to
minimize the cost of compliance. Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to use allowances as a compliance option.

     Southern Company achieved Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at the affected
plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, which required some equipment upgrades.
This compliance strategy resulted in unused emission allowances being banked for
later use. Construction expenditures for Phase I compliance totaled
approximately $2 million for Savannah Electric.


                                      II-228

 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


     For Phase II sulfur dioxide compliance, Southern Company could use emission
allowances, increase fuel switching, and/or install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants. Also, equipment to control nitrogen oxide
emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired plants as required
to meet Phase II limits. Therefore, current compliance strategy could require
total Phase II estimated construction expenditures of approximately $4 million
for the Company. However, the full impact of Phase II compliance cannot now be
determined with certainty, pending the continuing development of a market for
emission allowances, the completion of EPA regulations, and the possibility of
new emission reduction technologies.

     An increase of up to 1 percent in annual revenue requirements from
customers could be necessary to fully recover the Company's cost of compliance
for both Phase I and Phase II of Title IV of the Clean Air Act. Compliance costs
include construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to low-sulfur
coal, and costs related to emission allowances.

     A significant portion of costs related to the acid rain provision of the
Clean Air Act is expected to be recovered through existing ratemaking
provisions. However, there can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will
be recovered.

     The EPA and state environmental regulatory agencies are reviewing and
evaluating various matters including: revisions to the ambient air quality
standards for ozone and particulate matter; emission control strategies for
ozone nonattainment areas; additional controls for hazardous air pollutant
emissions; and hazardous waste disposal requirements. The impact of new
standards will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
regulations.

     The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Under these various laws and
regulations, the Company could incur substantial costs to clean up properties
currently or previously owned. The Company conducts studies to determine the
extent of any required cleanup costs and will recognize in the financial
statements any costs to clean up known sites.

     Several major pieces of environmental legislation are being considered for
reauthorization or amendment by Congress. These include: the Clean Air Act; the
Clean Water Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act; and the Endangered Species Act. Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of Southern Company's operations. The full impact of any such changes
cannot be determined at this time.

     Compliance with possible additional legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect Southern Company. The impact of new legislation--if
any--will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable
regulations. In addition, the potential exists for liability as the result of
lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields.

Sources of Capital

At December 31, 1996, the Company had $5.2 million of cash and $20.5 million of
unused short-term credit arrangements with banks to meet its short-term cash
needs. Revolving credit arrangements of $20 million, which expire December 31,
1998, are also used to meet short-term cash needs and to provide additional
interim funding for the Company's construction program. Of the revolving credit
arrangements, $15 million remained unused at December 31, 1996.

     It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be derived
from operations and the sale of additional first mortgage bonds and preferred
stock and capital contributions from Southern Company. The Company is required
to meet certain earnings coverage requirements specified in its mortgage
indenture and corporate charter to issue new first mortgage bonds and preferred
stock. The Company's coverage ratios are sufficiently high to permit, at present
interest rate levels, any foreseeable security sales. The amount of securities
which the Company will be permitted to issue in the future will depend upon
market conditions and other factors prevailing at that time.


                                      II-229

 






                                      II-230

 


STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report



                                     II-231

 

BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1996 and 1995
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report





                                      II-232







                                      II-233





                                      II-234

 

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

General

Savannah Electric and Power Company (the Company), is a wholly owned subsidiary
of Southern Company, which is the parent company of five operating companies, a
system service company, Southern Communications Services (Southern
Communications), Southern Energy, Inc. (Southern Energy), Southern Nuclear
Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), The Southern Development and Investment
Group (Southern Development) and other direct and indirect subsidiaries. The
operating companies provide electric service in four southeastern states.
Contracts among the companies--dealing with jointly owned generating facilities,
interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power--are
regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the Securities
and Exchange Commission. The system service company provides, at cost,
specialized services to Southern Company and subsidiary companies. Southern
Communications provides digital wireless communications services to the
operating companies and also markets these services to the public within the
Southeast. Southern Energy designs, builds, owns, and operates power production
and delivery facilities and provides a broad range of technical services to
industrial companies and utilities in the United States and a number of
international markets. Southern Nuclear provides services to Southern Company's
nuclear power plants. Southern Development develops new business opportunities
related to energy products and services.

     Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). Both Southern Company and its
subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The Company
also is subject to regulation by the FERC and the Georgia Public Service
Commission (GPSC). The Company follows generally accepted accounting principles
and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the GPSC.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the use of estimates, and the actual results may
differ from those estimates.

     Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

The Company is subject to the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) Statement No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of
Regulation. Regulatory assets represent probable future revenues to the Company
associated with certain costs that are expected to be recovered from customers
through the ratemaking process. Regulatory liabilities represent probable future
reductions in revenues associated with amounts that are to be credited to
customers through the ratemaking process. Regulatory assets and (liabilities)
reflected in the Balance Sheets at December 31 relate to:

                                         1996          1995
                                    ---------------------------
                                            (in thousands)
Deferred income taxes                  $ 19,167      $ 21,557
Premium on reacquired debt                7,142         5,316
Deferred income tax credits             (22,792)      (24,419)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                  $  3,517      $  2,454
===============================================================

     In the event that a portion of the Company's operations is no longer
subject to the provisions of Statement No. 71, the Company would be required to
write off related regulatory assets and liabilities. In addition, the Company
would be required to determine any impairment to other assets, including plant,
and write down the assets, if impaired, to their fair value.

Revenues and Fuel Costs

The Company accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period. Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used. The Company's
electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel
and the energy component of purchased power costs and purchased power capacity
costs. Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs and
amounts actually recovered in current rates.

     The Company has a diversified base of customers. No single customer or
industry comprises 10 percent or more of revenues. In 1996, uncollectible
accounts continued to average less than 1 percent of revenues.


                                      II-235

 

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


Depreciation and Amortization

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
2.8 percent in 1996 and 2.9 percent in 1995 and 1994. When property subject to
depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
business, its cost--together with the cost of removal, less salvage--is charged
to the accumulated provision for depreciation. Minor items of property included
in the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property unit is
retired. Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected cost of
removal of certain facilities.

Income Taxes

The Company, which is included in the consolidated federal income tax return
filed by Southern Company, uses the liability method of accounting for deferred
income taxes and provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences. Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction
    (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities. While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense. The composite rates used by the Company to calculate AFUDC
were 8.69 percent in 1996, 7.42 percent in 1995 and 8.04 percent in 1994.

Utility Plant

Utility plant is stated at original cost, which includes: materials; labor;
minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and AFUDC.
The cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is
charged to maintenance expense. The cost of replacements of property (exclusive
of minor items of property) is charged to utility plant.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents. Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

Financial Instruments

The Company's financial instruments for which the carrying amounts did not equal
fair value at December 31 were as follows:

                                         Long-Term Debt
                                    --------------------------
                                      Carrying           Fair
Year                                    Amount          Value
                                    --------------------------
                                             (in millions)
1996                                      $155           $161
1995                                       154            165
- --------------------------------------------------------------

     The fair values for long-term debt were based on either closing market
prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

Materials and Supplies

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials. Materials are charged to inventory
when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as appropriate, when
installed.

Storm Damage Reserve

In December 1995, in response to a request by the Company, the GPSC issued an
order allowing the Company to establish a Storm Damage Reserve. As of December
31, 1996, the accumulated provision amounted to $0.9 million. Regulatory
treatment by the GPSC allows the Company to accrue up to an additional $0.6
million per year.


                                      II-236



NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


2.   RETIREMENT BENEFITS

Pension Plan

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees. Benefits are based on the greater of
amounts resulting from two different formulas: years of service and final
average pay or years of service and a flat-dollar benefit. The Company uses the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject to
limitations under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded to the pension
trust are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities. FASB
Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

Postretirement Benefits

The Company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire. Trusts are funded to the extent deductible under
federal income tax regulations and to the extent required by the GPSC and the
FERC. Amounts funded are primarily invested in debt and equity securities and
money market funds.

     FASB Statement No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions, requires that medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis using a specified
actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." The cost of postretirement
benefits is reflected in rates on a current basis.


Funded Status and Cost of Benefits

The following tables show actuarial results and assumptions for pension and
postretirement benefits as computed under the requirements of FASB Statement
Nos. 87 and 106, respectively. The funded status of the plans at December 31 was
as follows:

                                                  Pension
                                        ------------------------
                                               1996        1995
                                        ------------------------
                                               (in thousands)
Actuarial present value of benefit
 obligation:
      Vested benefits                       $39,270     $38,169
      Non-vested benefits                     2,939       2,585
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation               42,209      40,754
Additional amounts related to
   projected salary increases                 7,705       7,786
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligation                 49,914      48,540
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets                 42,430      36,836
   Unrecognized net loss                      7,252       9,606
   Unrecognized prior service cost            1,240       1,375
   Unrecognized net transition
     obligation                                 444         532
Adjustment required to
   recognize additional
   minimum liability                              -       3,727
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
(Prepaid asset) accrued liability
   recognized in the Balance Sheets         $(1,452)    $ 3,918
================================================================

     The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations for the
pension plan were:

                                       1996     1995     1994
                                      ------------------------
  Discount                             7.25%    7.25%    8.00%
  Annual salary increase               4.75     4.75     5.25
  Long-term return on plan assets      8.75     8.75     9.00
  ---------------------------------------------------------------

                                      II-237


NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


     In accordance with Statement No. 87, an additional liability related to an
under-funded accumulated benefit obligations was reflected at December 31, 1995.
A corresponding net-of-tax balance of $0.1 million was recognized as a separate
component of Common Stock Equity in the 1995 Statement of Capitalization.

                                         Postretirement
                                            Benefits
                                     ------------------------
                                         1996           1995
                                     ------------------------
                                         (in thousands)
Actuarial present value of benefit
   obligation:
     Retirees and dependents          $12,442        $13,560
     Employees eligible to retire       1,614          1,471
     Other employees                    6,464          5,966
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated benefit obligation         20,520         20,997
Less:
   Fair value of plan assets            2,473          1,443
   Unrecognized net loss                4,835          5,719
   Unrecognized transition
     obligation                         7,900          9,135
- -------------------------------------------------------------
Accrued liability recognized in
   the Balance Sheets                 $ 5,312        $ 4,700
=============================================================

     In 1995, the Company announced a cost sharing program for postretirement
benefits. The program establishes limits on amounts the Company will pay to
provide future retiree postretirement benefits. This change reduced the 1995
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation by approximately $3.1 million.

     The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations for the
postretirement benefit plans were:

                                          1996        1995
                                         -------------------
Discount                                  7.75%       7.25%
Long-term return on plan assets           8.50        8.50
- ------------------------------------------------------------


     An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate of 9.3
percent for 1996, decreasing gradually to 5.8 percent through the year 2005 and
remaining at that level thereafter. An annual increase in the assumed medical
care cost trend rate of 1 percent would increase the accumulated benefit
obligation at December 31, 1996, by $1.2 million and the aggregate of the
service and interest cost components of the net postretirement cost by $0.1
million.

     Components of the plans' net costs are shown below:

                                                 Pension
                                      ------------------------------
                                          1996       1995     1994
                                      ------------------------------
                                                (in thousands)
Benefits earned during the year          $1,352    $1,188    $1,192
Interest cost on projected
   benefit obligation                     3,389     3,395     3,279
Actual (return) loss on plan assets      (4,852)   (5,791)       27
Net amortization and deferral             2,439     4,125    (1,474)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension cost                         $2,328    $2,917    $3,024
====================================================================

     Of the above net pension costs, $2.0 million in 1996, $2.4 million in 1995
and $2.6 million in 1994 were recorded in operating expenses, and the remainder
was recorded in construction and other accounts.

                                              Postretirement
                                                 Benefits
                                      ------------------------------
                                          1996       1995     1994
                                      ------------------------------
                                              (in thousands)
Benefits earned during the year         $  360     $  504    $  632
Interest cost on accumulated
  benefit obligation                     1,422      1,638     1,492
Amortization of transition
  obligation                               494        723       723
Actual (return) loss on plan assets       (145)       (34)        6
Net amortization and deferral              187         93       111
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Net postretirement costs                $2,318     $2,924    $2,964
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

     Of the above net postretirement costs, $2.0 million in 1996, $2.4 million
in 1995 and $2.4 million in 1994 were recorded in operating expenses, and the
remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.


                                      II-238


NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


     The Company has a supplemental retirement plan for certain executive
employees. The plan is unfunded and payable from the general funds of the
Company. The Company has purchased life insurance on participating executives,
and plans to use these policies to satisfy this obligation. Benefit costs
associated with this plan were $0.4 million for 1996, 1995 and 1994.

3.  REGULATORY MATTERS

Rates to retail customers served by the Company are regulated by the GPSC. As
part of the Company's most recent rate settlement in 1992, it was informally
agreed that the Company's earned rate of return on common equity should be 12.95
percent. The Company is currently undergoing an earnings review by the GPSC, and
to date, the GPSC has made no determination.

     In August 1995, the GPSC ordered the phase out of the Company's demand-side
management programs effective December 31, 1995 and the elimination of
demand-side management rate riders effective October 1, 1995. In June 1996, the
Company refunded to customers approximately $0.3 million which had been
overcollected from the rate rider.

4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program, currently estimated
to total $26 million in 1997, $22 million in 1998 and $24 million in 1999. The
construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and actual
construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous
factors. These factors include: changes in business conditions; revised load
growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations; increasing cost of
labor, equipment and materials; and changes in cost of capital. The Company does
not have any traditional baseload generating plants under construction. However,
construction related to transmission and distribution facilities and the
upgrading and extension of the useful lives of generating plants will continue.

5.  FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS

General

To the extent possible, the Company's construction program is expected to be
financed from internal sources and from the issuance of additional long-term
debt, preferred stock and capital contributions from Southern Company.

     The amounts of long-term debt and preferred stock that can be issued in the
future will be contingent on market conditions, the maintenance of adequate
earnings levels, regulatory authorizations and other factors.

Bank Credit Arrangements

At the end of 1996, unused credit arrangements with five banks totaled $20.5
million and expire at various times during 1997.

     The Company's revolving credit arrangements of $20 million, of which $15
million remained unused as of December 31, 1996, expire December 31, 1998. These
agreements allow short-term borrowings to be converted into term loans, payable
in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the first installment due at the end of
the first calendar quarter after the applicable termination date or at an
earlier date at the Company's option.

     In connection with these credit arrangements, the Company agrees to pay
commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments.

Assets Subject to Lien

As amended and supplemented, the Company's Indenture of Mortgage, which secures
the first mortgage bonds issued by the Company, constitutes a direct first lien
on substantially all of the Company's fixed property and franchises. A second
lien for $10 million of bank debt is secured by a portion of the Plant Kraft
property.


                                      II-239

 

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report

Operating Leases

The Company has rental agreements with various terms and expiration dates.
Rental expenses totaled $1.6 million for 1996, $1.3 million for 1995, and $1.5
million for 1994. The Company entered into a 22.5 year lease agreement effective
December 1, 1995 for 100 new aluminum rail cars at an annual cost of
approximately $0.5 million. The rail cars are used to transport coal to one of
the Company's generating plants.

     At December 31, 1996, estimated future minimum lease payments for
non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:

                                               Amounts
                                         --------------------
                                           (in thousands)
1997                                         $1,413
1998                                          1,135
1999                                            497
2000                                            485
2001                                            483
2002 and thereafter                           7,935
- -------------------------------------------------------------

6.  INCOME TAXES

At December 31, 1996, tax-related regulatory assets and liabilities were $19
million and $23 million, respectively. The assets are attributable to tax
benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to
capitalized AFUDC. The liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes previously
recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to unamortized
investment tax credits.


     Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:

                                       1996      1995       1994
                                 --------------------------------
                                           (in thousands)
Total provision for income taxes
Federal --
   Currently payable                $ 7,084   $10,427    $11,736
   Deferred  -- current year          8,216     5,290      2,106
             -- reversal of
                prior years          (1,989)   (1,661)      (755)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                     13,311    14,056     13,087
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
State --
   Currently payable                    575     1,941      2,064
   Deferred  -- current year          1,216       695        188
             -- reversal of
                prior years              39        35         86
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                      1,830     2,671      2,338
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                15,141    16,727     15,425
Less income taxes credited
   to other income                   (1,034)     (651)      (864)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
Total income taxes
   charged to operations            $16,175   $17,378    $16,289
=================================================================

     The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:

                                                1996       1995
                                            --------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:                       (in thousands)
   Accelerated depreciation                  $67,104    $62,822
   Property basis differences                  9,550     11,330
   Other                                       5,703      1,511
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                         82,357     75,663
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax assets:
   Pension and other benefits                  5,183      3,660
   Other                                       2,186      3,818
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                          7,369      7,478
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax liabilities                  74,988     68,185
Portions included in current assets, net       1,666      5,967
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated deferred income taxes
   in the Balance Sheets                     $76,654    $74,152
================================================================

     Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income. Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $0.7 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994. At December 31, 1996, all
investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had been
utilized.


                                      II-240

  

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


     A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:

                                      1996        1995    1994
                                    -----------------------------
   Federal statutory tax rate           35%         35%     35%
   State income tax, net of
      federal income tax benefit         3           4       4
   Other                                (1)          -       -
   --------------------------------------------------------------
   Effective income tax rate            37%         39%     39%
   ==============================================================

     Southern Company files a consolidated federal income tax return. Under a
joint consolidated income tax agreement, each subsidiary's current and deferred
tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis. Tax benefits from losses of the
parent company are allocated to each subsidiary based on the ratio of taxable
income to total consolidated taxable income.

7.  CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

The Company has outstanding 1,400,000 shares of 6.64% Series Preferred Stock
which has redemption provisions of $26.66 per share plus accrued dividends if
redeemed on or prior to November 1, 1998, and redemption provisions of $25 per
share plus accrued dividends thereafter. Cumulative preferred stock dividends
are preferential to the payment of dividends on common stock.

8.  LONG-TERM DEBT

The Company's Indenture related to its First Mortgage Bonds is unlimited as to
the authorized amount of bonds which may be issued, provided that required
property additions, earnings and other provisions of such Indenture are met.

     In May 1996, the Company issued $20 million in 6.90% Series First Mortgage
Bonds maturing in 2006 and $10 million of 6.88% term notes maturing in 2001.
Using the proceeds from such sales, the Company redeemed in July 1996 all of its
remaining outstanding 9 3/8% Series First Mortgage Bonds due July 2021.

     The sinking fund requirements of first mortgage bonds were satisfied by
cash redemption in 1996 and 1995. The 1997 requirement will be satisfied by
certifying property additions. Sinking fund requirements and/or maturities
through 2001 applicable to long-term debt are as follows: $0.6 million in 1997;
$20.5 million in 1998; $0.5 million in 1999; $0.4 million in 2000; and $10.4
million in 2001.

     Details of pollution control obligations and other long-term debt at
December 31 are as follows:

                                             1996        1995
                                         -----------------------
                                             (in thousands)
Collateralized obligations incurred in 
  connection with the sale by public
  authorities of tax-exempt pollution 
  control revenue bonds --
   Variable rate (3.20% at 1/1/97)
     due 2016                              $ 4,085     $ 4,085
   6 3/4% due 2022                          13,870      13,870
Capital lease obligations --
   Coal unloading facility
     Variable rate (5.60% at 1/1/97)         6,667           -
   Transportation fleet                        421         485
Notes Payable --
   6.88% due 2001                           10,000           -
   Variable rate (5.75% at 1/1/97)
     due 1998                               15,000      15,000
   Variable rate (5.73% at 1/1/97)
     due 1998                                5,000       5,000
- ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                      $55,043     $38,440
================================================================

     Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded as utility plant in
service, and the related obligation is classified as other long-term debt.
Leases are capitalized at the net present value of the future lease payments.
However, for ratemaking purposes, these obligations are treated as operating
leases, and as such, lease payments are charged to expense as incurred.

     In March 1996, the Company entered into a fifteen year variable rate
capital lease agreement with the Savannah Economic Development Authority for a
coal ship docking and unloading facility at Plant Kraft.


                                      II-241

  

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1996 Annual Report


     The Company leased combustion turbine generating equipment under a
non-cancelable lease that expired in 1995. In December 1995, the Company
exercised its option to purchase this equipment. The Company currently leases a
portion of its transportation fleet. Under the terms of these leases, the
Company is responsible for taxes, insurance and other expenses.

9.  LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the sinking fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year at December 31 is as follows:

                                                1996         1995
                                             ----------------------
                                                   (in thousands)
Bond sinking fund requirement                   $1,100       $1,200
Less:
   Portion to be satisfied by
     certifying property additions               1,100            -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash sinking fund requirement                        -        1,200
Other long-term debt maturities (Note 9)           637          207
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                           $  637       $1,407
====================================================================

     The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirements amount to 1
percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the Indenture
prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to collateralize
pollution control and other obligations. The requirements may be satisfied by
depositing cash or reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal
to 1 2/3 times the requirements.

10.  COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

The Company's Charter and Indenture contain certain limitations on the payment
of cash dividends on preferred and common stocks. At December 31, 1996,
approximately $68 million of retained earnings was restricted against the
payment of cash dividends on common stock under the terms of the Indenture.

11.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1996 and 1995 are as follows (in
thousands):

                                                Net Income After
                       Operating    Operating     Dividends on
Quarter Ended           Revenue      Income     Preferred Stock
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

March 1996              $50,575      $ 6,562        $  2,740
June 1996                61,906        9,786           5,859
September 1996           73,359       16,542          12,815
December 1996            48,234        5,994           2,526

March 1995              $46,743      $ 6,468        $  2,420
June 1995                57,673        9,920           6,041
September 1995           73,449       16,438          12,693
December 1995            47,864        5,452           2,241
- -----------------------------------------------------------------

     The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions and a
seasonal rate structure, among other factors.


                                      II-242







Note:
NR = Not Rated


                                      II-243

 





Note:
NR = Not Rated



                                      II-244A




Note:
NR = Not Rated


                                      II-244B







                                      II-245

 




                                      II-246A





                                      II-246B


STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Savannah Electric and Power Company



                                     II-247

STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Savannah Electric and Power Company
           
                                     II-248A


STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Savannah Electric and Power Company


                                    II-248B

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Savannah Electric and Power Company

                                     II-249

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Savannah Electric and Power Company

                                    II-250A

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Savannah Electric and Power Company


                                    II-250B


BALANCE SHEETS
Savannah Electric and Power Company

                                     II-251



BALANCE SHEETS
Savannah Electric and Power Company

                                    II-252A



BALANCE SHEETS
Savannah Electric and Power Company

                                    II-252B

BALANCE SHEETS
Savannah Electric and Power Company

                                     II-253



BALANCE SHEETS
Savannah Electric and Power Company   



                                    II-254A

BALANCE SHEETS
Savannah Electric and Power Company

                                    II-254B



                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
                   OUTSTANDING SECURITIES AT DECEMBER 31, 1996


                                     II-255








                                     PART III

                                      
Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 for SOUTHERN are incorporated by reference to ELECTION
OF DIRECTORS in SOUTHERN's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1997
annual meeting of stockholders. The ages of directors and executive officers in
Item 10 set forth below are as of December 31, 1996.

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
             OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS

                                     ALABAMA

Identification of directors of ALABAMA.

Elmer B. Harris (1)
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 57
Served as Director since 3-1-89

Bill M. Guthrie
Executive Vice President
Age 63
Served as Director since 12-16-88

Whit Armstrong (2)
Age 49
Served as Director since 9-24-82

A. W. Dahlberg (2)
Age 56
Served as Director since 4-22-94

Peter V. Gregerson, Sr. (2)
Age 68
Served as Director since 10-22-93

Carl E. Jones, Jr. (2)
Age 56
Served as Director since 4-22-88

Wallace D. Malone, Jr. (2)
Age 60
Served as Director since 6-22-90

William V. Muse (2)
Age 57
Served as Director since 2-26-93


John T. Porter (2)
Age 65
Served as Director since 10-22-93

Gerald H. Powell (2)
Age 70
Served as Director since 2-28-86

Robert D. Powers (2)
Age 46
Served as Director since 1-24-92

John W. Rouse (2)
Age 59
Served as Director since 4-22-88

William J. Rushton, III (2)
Age 67
Served as Director since 9-18-70

James H. Sanford (2)
Age 52
Served as Director since 8-1-83

John C. Webb, IV (2)
Age 54
Served as Director since 4-22-77

John W. Woods (2)
Age 65
Served as Director since 4-20-73

(1)    Previously served as Director of ALABAMA from 1980 to 1985.
(2)    No position other than Director.

    Each of the above is currently a director of ALABAMA, serving a term 
running from the last annual meeting of ALABAMA's stockholder (April 26, 1996)
for one year until the next annual meeting or until a successor is elected and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings with
directors or officers of ALABAMA acting solely in their capacities as such.

                                     III-1



Identification of executive officers of ALABAMA.

Elmer B. Harris (1)
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 57
Served as Executive Officer since 3-1-89

Banks H. Farris
Executive Vice President
Age 61
Served as Executive Officer since 12-3-91

William B. Hutchins, III
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 12-3-91

Charles D. McCrary
Executive Vice President
Age 45
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-91

(1)    Previously served as executive officer of ALABAMA from 1979 to 1985.

    Each of the above is currently an executive officer of ALABAMA, serving a
term running from the last annual meeting of the directors (April 26, 1996) for
one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
ALABAMA acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

Elmer B. Harris - Elected in 1989; Chief Executive Officer.  Director of 
SOUTHERN and AmSouth Bancorporation.

Bill M. Guthrie - Elected in 1988; also served since 1991 as Chief Production
Officer of the SOUTHERN system and from 1991 to 1994 as Executive Vice President
and Chief Production Officer of SCS. Elected Senior Executive Vice President and
Chief Production Officer of SCS effective 1994. Also serves as Vice President of
SOUTHERN, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH and Executive Vice President of
GEORGIA. Responsible primarily for providing overall management of materials
management, fuel services, operating and planning services, fossil, hydro and
bulk power operations of the Southern electric system.

Whit Armstrong - President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The
Citizens Bank, Enterprise, Alabama.  Also, President and Chairman of the Board 
of Enterprise Capital Corporation, Inc.  Director of Enstar Group, Inc.

A. W. Dahlberg - Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of SOUTHERN
since 1995.  He previously served as President of SOUTHERN from 1994 to 1995
and President and Chief Executive Officer of GEORGIA from 1988 through 1993.
Director of SOUTHERN, GEORGIA, Equifax, Inc., Protective Life Corporation and 
SunTrust Banks, Inc.

Peter V. Gregerson, Sr. - Chairman Emeritus of Gregerson's Foods, Inc. (retail
groceries), Gadsden, Alabama.

Carl E. Jones, Jr. - President and Chief Operating Officer of Regions Bank, 
Birmingham, Alabama.  President of the Southern Region, Regions Financial
Corporation.  He previously served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 
Regions Bank (formerly First Alabama Bank), Mobile, Alabama.

Wallace D. Malone, Jr. - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SouthTrust 
Corporation, bank holding company, Birmingham, Alabama.  Director of American
Cast Iron Pipe Company.


                                     III-2



William V. Muse - President of Auburn University. Director of SouthTrust 
Corporation and American Cast Iron Pipe Company.

John T. Porter  - Pastor of Sixth Avenue Baptist Church, Birmingham, Alabama. 
Director of Citizen Federal Bank.

Gerald H. Powell - President, Dixie Clay Company of Alabama, Inc. (refractory
clay producer), Jacksonville, Alabama.

Robert D. Powers - President and Director, The Eufaula Agency, Inc. (real 
estate and insurance), Eufaula, Alabama.

John W. Rouse - President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Research 
Institute (non-profit research institute), Birmingham,  Alabama.  Director of 
Protective Life Corporation.

William J. Rushton, III - Chairman Emeritus of the Board, Protective Life
Corporation (insurance holding company), Birmingham, Alabama. Director of
SOUTHERN.

James H. Sanford - Chairman, HOME Place Farms Inc. (diversified farmers and 
ginners), Prattville, Alabama.  Chairman of the Board, Sylvest Farms of 
Georgia, Inc., College Park, Georgia.  Chairman of the Board, Sylvest Poultry 
Inc., Montgomery, Alabama.


John C. Webb, IV - President, Webb Lumber Company, Inc. (wholesale lumber and 
wood products sales), Demopolis, Alabama.  Director, J. F. Suttle, Co.

John W. Woods - Director of Protective Life Corporation and McWane, Inc. During
1996, he served as Chairman of AmSouth Bancorporation and Chairman of AmSouth
Bank of Alabama.

Banks H. Farris - Elected in 1991; responsible primarily for providing the
overall management of human resources, information resources, power delivery and
marketing departments, customer service centers and the six geographic
divisions. He previously served as Senior Vice President from 1991 to 1994.

William B. Hutchins, III - Elected in 1991; Chief Financial Officer, responsible
primarily for providing the overall management of accounting and financial
planning activities. He previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer from 1991 to 1994.

Charles D. McCrary - Elected in 1991; responsible for the external relations
department, public relations and corporate services. He previously served as
Senior Vice President from 1991 to 1994.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

                                     III-3



                                     GEORGIA

Identification of directors of GEORGIA.

H. Allen Franklin
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 52
Served as Director since 1-1-94

Warren Y. Jobe
Executive Vice President, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer
Age 56
Served as Director since 8-1-82

Bennett A. Brown (1)
Age 67
Served as Director since 5-15-80

A. W. Dahlberg (1)
Age 56
Served as Director since 6-1-88

William A. Fickling, Jr. (1)
Age 64
Served as Director since 4-18-73

L. G. Hardman III (1)
Age 57
Served as Director since 6-25-79

James R. Lientz, Jr. (1)
Age 53
Served as Director since 7-21-93

William A. Parker, Jr. (1)
Age 69
Served as Director since 5-19-65

G. Joseph Prendergast (1)
Age 51
Served as Director since 1-20-93

Herman J. Russell (1)
Age 66
Served as Director since 5-18-88

Gloria M. Shatto (1)
Age 65
Served as Director since 2-20-80


William Jerry Vereen (1)
Age 56
Served as Director since 5-18-88

Carl Ware (1) (2)
Age 53
Served as Director since 2-15-95

Thomas R. Williams (1)
Age 68
Served as Director since 3-17-82

(1)    No position other than Director.
(2)    Previously served as Director of GEORGIA
       from 1980 to 1991.

    Each of the above is currently a director of GEORGIA, serving a term running
from the last annual meeting of GEORGIA's stockholder (May 15, 1996) for one
year until the next annual meeting or until a successor is elected and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he/she was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings
with directors or officers of GEORGIA acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of executive officers of GEORGIA.

H. Allen Franklin
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 52
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-94

Warren Y. Jobe
Executive Vice President, Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer and Director
Age 56
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-82

William C. Archer, III
Executive Vice President - External Affairs
Age 48
Served as Executive Officer since 4-6-95


                                     III-4



W. G. Hairston, III
Executive Vice President - Nuclear
Age 52
Served as Executive Officer since 6-1-93

Gene R. Hodges
Executive Vice President - Customer Operations
Age 58
Served as Executive Officer since 11-19-86

William P. Bowers
Senior Vice President - Marketing
Age 40
Served as Executive Officer since 9-22-95

Wayne T. Dahlke
Senior Vice President - Power Delivery
Age 55
Served as Executive Officer since 4-19-89

James K. Davis
Senior Vice President - Corporate Relations
Age 56
Served as Executive Officer since 10-1-93

Robert H. Haubein
Senior Vice President - Fossil/Hydro Power
Age 56
Served as Executive Officer since 2-19-92

Fred D. Williams
Senior Vice President - Wholesale Power Marketing
Age 52
Served as Executive Officer since 11-18-92

    Each of the above is currently an executive officer of GEORGIA, serving a
term running from the last annual meeting of the directors (May 15, 1996) for
one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
GEORGIA acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.


Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

H. Allen Franklin - President and Chief Executive Officer since 1994.  He 
previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS from 1988
through 1993.  Director of SOUTHERN and SouthTrust Corporation.

Warren Y. Jobe - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 1982
and Treasurer since 1992. Responsible for financial and accounting operations
and planning, internal auditing, procurement, corporate services, corporate
secretary and treasury operations.

Bennett A. Brown - Retired as Chairman of the Board of NationsBank on December
31, 1992.  Previously Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of 
C&S/Sovran Corporation.  Director of Cousins Properties.

A. W. Dahlberg - Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of SOUTHERN 
since 1995.  He previously served as President of SOUTHERN from 1994 to 1995
and President and Chief Executive Officer of GEORGIA from 1988 through 1993.  
Director of SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, Equifax, Inc., Protective Life Corporation and 
SunTrust Banks, Inc.

William A. Fickling, Jr. - Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and 
President of Beech Street Corporation (provider of managed care services).

L. G. Hardman III - Chairman of the Board of The First National Bank of 
Commerce, Georgia and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
First Commerce Bancorp, Inc.  Chairman of the Board, President and Treasurer
of Harmony Grove Mills, Inc. (real estate investments).  Director of SOUTHERN.

James R. Lientz, Jr. - President of NationsBank of Georgia since 1993.  He 
previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of former Citizens
& Southern Bank of South Carolina (now NationsBank) from 1990 to 1993.


                                     III-5



William A. Parker, Jr. - Chairman of the Board, Seminole Investment Co., L.L.C.
(private investments), Atlanta, Georgia.  Director of SOUTHERN, Genuine Parts
Company, Atlantic Investment Company, Post Properties, Inc. and Haverty 
Furniture Companies, Inc.

G. Joseph Prendergast - Chairman, Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A. since 1994.  
Chairman, Wachovia Bank of South Carolina, and Director, Wachovia Bank of 
North Carolina.  He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer,
Wachovia Corporation of Georgia and Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A. from 1993 to
1994 and from 1988 to 1993 as Executive Vice President of Wachovia
Corporation of Georgia and President of Wachovia Corporate Services, Inc.

Herman J. Russell - Chairman of the Board,
H. J. Russell & Company (construction), Atlanta, Georgia.  Chairman of the
Board, Citizens Trust Bank, and Citizens Bancshares Corporation Atlanta, 
Georgia.  Director of Wachovia Corporation and National Service Industries.
Member of Board of Trustees, First Union Real Estate Equity and Mortgage 
Investments.

Gloria M. Shatto - President, Berry College, Mount Berry, Georgia.  Director of
SOUTHERN, Becton Dickinson & Company and Texas Instruments, Inc.

William Jerry Vereen - President, Treasurer and Chief Executive Officer of
Riverside Manufacturing Company (manufacture and sale of uniforms), Moultrie,
Georgia. Director of Gerber Scientific, Inc., Textile Clothing Technology Group
and Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Georgia.

Carl Ware - President, Africa Group, Coca-Cola International since 1991.

Thomas R. Williams - President of The Wales Group, Inc. (investments), Atlanta,
Georgia.  Director of ConAgra, Inc., BellSouth Corporation, National Life
Insurance Company of Vermont, AppleSouth, Inc., American Software, Inc. and The
Fidelity Group of Funds.

William C. Archer, III - Executive Vice President - External Affairs since
September 1995. Senior Vice President - External Affairs from April 1995 to
September 1995. Vice President - Human Resources for SCS from 1992 to 1995. Vice
President - Northern Region from March 1992 to August 1992 and Vice President -
Metro Region from 1990 to March 1992.

W. G. Hairston, III - Executive Vice President - Nuclear since 1993.  Also, he 
has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Southern Nuclear since
May 1993 and Chief Executive Officer since December 1993.  Executive Vice 
President of Southern Nuclear from 1992 to 1993 and Senior Vice President of
Southern Nuclear from 1990 to 1992.

Gene R. Hodges - Executive Vice President - Customer Operations, Power Delivery
and Safety.  Senior Vice President - Region/Land Operations from 1990 to 1992.

William P. Bowers - Senior Vice President - Marketing since 1995.  Vice 
President - Retail Sales and Service from 1992 to 1995 and Vice President - 
Marketing from 1990 to 1992.

Wayne T. Dahlke - Senior Vice President - Power Delivery since 1992.  Senior 
Vice President - Marketing from 1989 to 1992.

James K. Davis - Senior Vice President - Corporate Relations since 1993.  Vice 
President of Corporate Relations from 1988 to 1993.

Robert H. Haubein - Senior Vice President - Fossil/ Hydro Power since 1994.
Senior Vice President - Administrative Services from 1992 to 1994 and Vice
President - Northern Region from 1990 to 1992.

Fred D. Williams - Senior Vice President - Wholesale Power Marketing since
August 1995. Senior Vice President - Bulk Power Markets from 1992 to August
1995. Vice President - Bulk Power Markets from 1984 to 1992. In addition, he was
elected Senior Vice President - Wholesale Power Marketing of SCS in 1995 and
Senior Vice President of ALABAMA in February 1996

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

                                     III-6



                                      GULF

Identification of directors of GULF.

Travis J. Bowden
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 58
Served as Director since 2-1-94

Paul J. DeNicola (1)
Age 48
Served as Director since 4-19-91

Fred C. Donovan (1)
Age 56
Served as Director since 1-18-91

W. Deck Hull, Jr. (1)
Age 64
Served as Director since 10-14-83

Joseph K. Tannehill (1)
Age 63
Served as Director since 7-19-85

Barbara H. Thames (1)
Age 56
Served as Director since 2-28-97

(1)    No position other than Director.

    Each of the above is currently a director of GULF, serving a term running
from the last annual meeting of GULF's stockholder (June 25, 1996) for one year
until the next annual meeting or until a successor is elected and qualified,
except for Ms. Thames whose election was effective on the date indicated.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings with
directors or officers of GULF acting solely in their capacities as such.
Identification of executive officers of GULF.

Travis J. Bowden
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 58
Served as Executive Officer since 2-1-94

Francis M. Fisher, Jr.
Vice President - Power Delivery and Customer Operations
Age 48
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-89

John E. Hodges, Jr.
Vice President - Marketing and Employee/External Affairs
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-89

G. Edison Holland, Jr.
Vice President - Power Generation/Transmission and Corporate Counsel
Age 44
Served as Executive Officer since 4-25-92

Arlan E. Scarbrough
Vice President - Finance
Age 60
Served as Executive Officer since 9-21-77

    Each of the above is currently an executive officer of GULF, serving a term
running from the last annual meeting of the directors (July 26, 1996) for one
year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
GULF acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

Family relationships.
           None.


                                     III-7


Business experience.

Travis J. Bowden - Elected President effective February 1994 and, effective May
1994, Chief Executive Officer. He previously served as Executive Vice President
of ALABAMA from 1985 to 1994.

Paul J. DeNicola - President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS since 1994. He
previously served as Executive Vice President of SCS from 1991 through 1993.
Director of SOUTHERN, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH.

Fred C. Donovan - President of Baskerville - Donovan, Inc., Pensacola, Florida,
an architectural and engineering firm.  Director of Baptist Health Care, Inc.

W. Deck Hull, Jr. - Vice Chairman of the SunTrust Bank, West Florida, Panama 
City, Florida.  He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer
and Director of the Sun Commercial Bank, Panama City, Florida from 1989 to 1992.

Joseph K. Tannehill - President and Chief Executive Officer of Merrick 
International Industries, Lynn Haven, Florida.  Director of Florida First Bank,
Panama City, Florida.

Barbara H. Thames - Chief Executive Officer of Santa Rosa Medical Center,
Milton, Florida since 1991.


Francis M. Fisher, Jr. - Elected Vice President - Employee and External 
Relations in 1989 and, effective August 1996, Vice President - Power Delivery 
and Customer Operations.

John E. Hodges, Jr. - Elected Vice President - Customer Operations in 1989 and,
effective August 1996, Vice President - Marketing and Employee/External 
Affairs.  Director of Barnett Bank of West Florida, Pensacola, Florida.

G. Edison Holland, Jr. - Elected Vice President and Corporate Counsel in 1992
and Vice President - Power Generation/Transmission and Corporate Counsel in
1995; responsible for generation and transmission of electric energy, all legal
matters associated with GULF and serves as compliance officer.  Also serves, 
since 1982, as a partner in the law firm, Beggs & Lane.

Arlan E. Scarbrough - Elected Vice President - Finance in 1980; responsible for
all accounting and financial services of GULF.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

                                     III-8



                                   MISSISSIPPI

Identification of directors of MISSISSIPPI.

Dwight H. Evans
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 48
Served as Director since 3-27-95

Paul J. DeNicola (1)
Age 48
Served as Director since 5-1-89

Edwin E. Downer (1)
Age 65
Served as Director since 4-24-84

Robert S. Gaddis (1)
Age 65
Served as Director since 1-21-86

Walter H. Hurt, III (1)
Age 61
Served as Director since 4-6-82

Aubrey K. Lucas (1)
Age 62
Served as Director since 4-24-84

George A. Schloegel (1)
Age 56
Served as Director since 7-26-95

Philip J. Terrell (1)
Age 43
Served as Director since 2-22-95

N. Eugene Warr (1)
Age 61
Served as Director since 1-21-86

(1)    No position other than Director.

    Each of the above is currently a director of MISSISSIPPI, serving a term
running from the last annual meeting of MISSISSIPPI's stockholder (April 2,
1996) for one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is
elected and qualified.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings
with directors or officers of MISSISSIPPI acting solely in their capacities as
such.

Identification of executive officers of MISSISSIPPI.

Dwight H. Evans
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 48
Served as Executive Officer since 3-27-95

H. E. Blakeslee
Vice President - Customer Services and Marketing
Age 56
Served as Executive Officer since 1-25-84

F. D. Kuester (1)
Vice President - Power Generation and Delivery
Age 46
Served as Executive Officer since 3-28-94

Don E. Mason
Vice President - External Affairs and Corporate Services
Age 55
Served as Executive Officer since 7-27-83

Michael W. Southern
Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer
Age 44
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-95

(1)   Resigned effective March 1, 1997, to assume the position of Director - 
Commercial of SOUTHERN's  Hong Kong-based affiliate, Consolidated Electric
Power Asia.

    Each of the above, except for Mr. Kuester, is currently an executive officer
of MISSISSIPPI, serving a term running from the last annual meeting of the
directors (April 24, 1996) for one year until the next annual meeting or until
his successor is elected and qualified.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
MISSISSIPPI acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

                                     III-9



Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

Dwight H. Evans - President and Chief Executive Officer since 1995. He
previously served as Executive Vice President of GEORGIA from 1989 to 1995.

Paul J. DeNicola - President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS effective 1994.
Executive Vice President of SCS from 1991 through 1993. Director of SOUTHERN,
SAVANNAH and GULF.

Edwin E. Downer - Business consultant specializing in economic analysis,
management controls and procedural studies.

Robert S. Gaddis - Chairman of the Advisory Board of Trustmark National Bank, 
Laurel, Mississippi.

Walter H. Hurt, III - President and Director of NPC Inc. (Investments).  Vicar,
All Saints Church, Inverness, Mississippi, and St. Thomas Church, Belzoni, 
Mississippi.  Retired newspaper editor and publisher.

Aubrey K. Lucas - President Emeritus and Distinguished Professor of Higher
Education at the University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, Mississippi.

George A. Schloegel - President of Hancock Bank and Hancock Bank Securities 
Corporation.  Vice Chairman of Hancock Holding Company.  Director of Hancock
Bank - Mississippi and Hancock Bank - Louisiana.

Philip J. Terrell - Superintendent of Pass Christian Public School District and
adjunct professor at William Carey College.

N. Eugene Warr - Retailer (Biloxi and Gulfport, Mississippi).  Director of 
Coast Community Bank, formerly SouthTrust Bank of Mississippi, Biloxi,
Mississippi.

H. E. Blakeslee - Elected Vice President in 1984.  Primarily responsible for
retail marketing, rates and wholesale marketing, division operations, the 
customer service center and distribution services.

F. D. Kuester - Elected Vice President in 1994.
Primarily responsible for generating plants, environmental quality, fuel
services, power generation technical services, transmission, system planning,
bulk power contracts, system operations and control, system protection and real
estate. He previously served as Manager of Business and New Project
Design/Development of SCS from 1993 to 1994 and Vice President of SCS from 1990
to 1993.

Don E. Mason - Elected Vice President in 1983. Primarily responsible for
external affairs, corporate communications, security, risk management, economic
development and general services, as well as the human resources function.

Michael W. Southern - Elected Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and Chief
Financial Officer in 1995. Primarily responsible for accounting,
secretary/treasury, corporate planning, procurement and information resources.
He previously served as Director of Corporate Finance of SCS from 1994 to 1995
and Director of Financial Planning of SCS from 1990 to 1994.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

                                     III-10



                                    SAVANNAH

Identification of directors of SAVANNAH.

Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 64
Served as Director since 9-1-82

Helen Quattlebaum Artley (1)
Age 69
Served as Director since 5-17-77

Archie H. Davis (1)
Age 55
Served as Director since 2-18-97

Paul J. DeNicola (1)
Age 48
Served as Director since 3-14-91

Walter D. Gnann (1)
Age 61
Served as Director since 5-17-83

Robert B. Miller, III (1)
Age 51
Served as Director since 5-17-83

Arnold M. Tenenbaum (1)
Age 60
Served as Director since 5-17-77

Frederick F. Williams, Jr. (1)
Age 69
Served as Director since 7-2-75

(1)    No Position other than Director.

    Each of the above is currently a director of SAVANNAH, serving a term
running from the last annual meeting of SAVANNAH's stockholder (May 21, 1996)
for one year until the next annual meeting or until a successor is elected and
qualified, except for Mr. Davis whose election was effective on the date
indicated.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he/she was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings
with directors or officers of SAVANNAH acting solely in their capacities as
such.

Identification of executive officers of SAVANNAH.

Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr.
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 64
Served as Executive Officer since 2-15-72

W. Miles Greer
Vice President - Marketing and Customer Services
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 11-20-85

Larry M. Porter
Vice President - Operations
Age 51
Served as Executive Officer since 7-1-91

Kirby R. Willis
Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer
Age 45
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-94

    Each of the above is currently an executive officer of SAVANNAH, serving a
term running from the last annual meeting of the directors (July 16, 1996) for
one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified.

    There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
SAVANNAH acting solely in their capacities as such.

Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

Family relationships.
           None.

Business experience.

Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr. - Elected President and Chief Executive Officer in
1984.  Director of Savannah Foods and Industries, Inc.

Helen Quattlebaum Artley - Homemaker and Civic Worker.


                                     III-11



Archie H. Davis - President and Chief Executive Officer of The Savannah Bank, 
Savannah, Georgia. Previously served as President of C&S in Savannah, Georgia.
Chairman of the Board of Candler Health Services.  Member of the Board of 
Directors of Thomaston Mills, Thomaston, Georgia.

Paul J. DeNicola - President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS since 1994.
Executive Vice President of SCS from 1991 through 1993. Director of SOUTHERN,
GULF and MISSISSIPPI.

Walter D. Gnann - President of Walt's TV, Appliance and Furniture Co., Inc., 
Springfield, Georgia.  Past Chairman of the Development Authority of Effingham
County, Georgia.

Robert B. Miller, III - President of American Building Systems, Inc.

Arnold M. Tenenbaum - President and Director of Chatham Steel Corporation.  
Director of First Union National Bank of Georgia and
Savannah Foods and Industries, Inc.

Frederick F. Williams, Jr. - Retired Partner and Consultant, Hilb, Rogal and 
Hamilton Employee Benefits, Incorporated (Insurance Brokers), formerly Jones, 
Hill & Mercer.

W. Miles Greer - Vice President - Marketing and Customer Services effective 
1994.  Formerly served as Vice President - Economic Development and Corporate
Services from 1989 through 1993.

Larry M. Porter - Vice President - Operations since 1991. Responsible for
managing the areas of fuel procurement, power production, transmission and
distribution, engineering and system operation.

Kirby R. Willis - Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer since
1994. Responsible primarily for all accounting, financial, information
resources, labor relations, corporate services, environmental and safety
activities. He previously served as Treasurer, Controller and Assistant
Secretary from 1991 to 1993.

Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.




                                     III-12




ITEM 11.        EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Summary Compensation Tables. The following tables set forth information
concerning any Chief Executive Officer and the four most highly compensated
executive officers whose total annual salary and bonus exceeded $100,000 during
1996 for each of the operating affiliates (ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI
and SAVANNAH).

Key terms used in this Item will have the following meanings:-





See next page for footnotes.


                                     III-13





                                     III-14




                                     III-15




                                     III-16






                                     III-17




                                     III-18



                                     III-19




                                   III-20



See next page for footnotes.


                                     III-21





                                     III-22




See next page for footnotes.


                                     III-23






                                     III-24


                  DEFINED BENEFIT OR ACTUARIAL PLAN DISCLOSURE


Pension Plan Table. The following table sets forth the estimated combined annual
pension benefits under the pension and supplemental defined benefit plans in
effect during 1996 for ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF and MISSISSIPPI. Employee
compensation covered by the pension and supplemental benefit plans for pension
purposes is limited to the average of the highest three of the final 10 years'
base salary and wages (reported under column titled "Salary" in the Summary
Compensation Tables on pages III-13 through III-18).

The amounts shown in the table were calculated according to the final average
pay formula and are based on a single life annuity without reduction for joint
and survivor annuities (although married employees are required to have their
pension benefits paid in one of various joint and survivor annuity forms, unless
the employee elects otherwise with the spouse's consent) or computation of the
Social Security offset which would apply in most cases. This offset amounts to
one-half of the estimated Social Security benefit (primary insurance amount) in
excess of $3,000 per year times the number of years of accredited service,
divided by the total possible years of accredited service to normal retirement
age.



         As of December 31, 1996, the applicable compensation levels and years
of accredited service are presented in the following tables:



                                     III-25








         SAVANNAH has in effect a qualified, trusteed, noncontributory, defined
benefit pension plan which provides pension benefits to employees upon
retirement at the normal retirement age after designated periods of accredited
service and at a specified compensation level. The plan provides pension
benefits under a formula which includes each participant's years of service with
the Southern system and average annual earnings of the highest three of the
final 10 years of service with the Southern system preceding retirement. Plan
benefits are reduced by a portion of the benefits participants are entitled to
receive under Social Security. The plan provides for reduced early retirement
benefits at age 55 and a pension for the surviving spouse equal to one-half of
the deceased retiree's pension.






1    The number of accredited years of service includes 10 years credited to
both Mr. Bowden and Mr. Holland pursuant to individual supplemental pension 
agreements.



                                     III-26




         As of December 31, 1996, the applicable compensation levels and years
of accredited service are presented in the following table:-


         SAVANNAH has in effect a voluntary deferred compensation plan for
certain executive employees pursuant to which such employees may defer a portion
of their respective annual salaries. In addition, SAVANNAH has a supplemental
executive retirement plan for certain of its executive employees. The deferred
compensation plan is designed to provide supplemental retirement or survivor
benefit payments. The supplemental executive retirement plan is also designed to
provide retiring executives of SAVANNAH with a supplemental retirement benefit,
which, in conjunction with social security and benefits under SAVANNAH's
qualified pension plan, will equal 70 percent of the highest three of the final
10 years' average annual compensation (including deferrals under the deferred
compensation plan). Both of these plans are unfunded and the liability is
payable from general funds of SAVANNAH. The deferred compensation plan became
effective December 1, 1983, and all of SAVANNAH's executive officers are
participating in the plan. In addition, all executives are participating in the
supplemental executive retirement plan.

         In order to provide for its liabilities under the deferred compensation
plan and the supplemental executive retirement plan, SAVANNAH has purchased life
insurance on participating executive employees in actuarially determined amounts
which, based upon assumptions as to mortality experience, policy dividends, tax
effects, and other factors which, if realized, along with compensation deferred
by employees and the death benefits payable to SAVANNAH, are expected to cover
all such insurance premium payments, and all benefit payments to participants,
plus a factor for the cost of funds of SAVANNAH.

         The following table sets forth the estimated combined annual pension
benefits under the pension plan and supplemental executive retirement plan in
effect during 1996 which are payable by SAVANNAH to executives upon retirement
at the normal retirement age after designated periods of accredited service and
at a specified compensation level.



                                     III-27



Compensation of Directors.

         Standard Arrangements. The following table presents compensation paid
to the directors, during 1996 for service as a member of the board of directors
and any board committee(s), except that employee directors received no fees or
compensation for service as a member of the board of directors or any board
committee. All or a portion of these fees may be deferred until membership on
the board is terminated.



         Effective January 1, 1997, the Outside Directors Pension Plan (the
"Plan") was terminated and benefits payable under the Plan were frozen.
Non-employee directors serving as of January 1, 1997, have a one-time election
to receive a Plan benefit buy-out equal to the actuarial present value of future
Plan benefits or receive benefits under the terms of the Plan at the annual
retainer rate in effect on December 31, 1996. Directors who elect to receive the
benefit buy-out must defer receipt until membership on the board is terminated.
Directors who elect to continue to participate under the terms of the Plan are
entitled to benefits upon retirement from the board on the retirement date
designated in the respective companies' by-laws. The annual benefit payable is
based upon length of service and varies from 75 percent of the annual retainer
in effect on December 31, 1996, if the participant has at least 60 months of
service on the board of one or more system companies, to 100 percent if the
participant has at least 120 months of such service. Payments continue for the
greater of the lifetime of the participant or 10 years.

         Other Arrangements. No director received other compensation for
services as a director during the year ending December 31, 1996 in addition to
or in lieu of that specified by the standard arrangements specified above.

Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment and Change in Control 
Arrangements.

         None.

Report on Repricing of Options.

         None.

                                     III-28




Additional Information with Respect to Compensation Committee Interlocks and 
Insider Participation in Compensation Decisions.


         ALABAMA

                  Elmer B. Harris serves on the Compensation Committee of
          AmSouth Bancorporation. John W. Woods, a director of ALABAMA, served
          as Chairman of AmSouth Bancorporation during 1996.


                                     III-29




ITEM 12.        SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Security ownership of certain beneficial owners.  SOUTHERN is the beneficial 
owner of 100% of the outstanding common stock of registrants: ALABAMA, GEORGIA,
GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH.


Security ownership of management. The following table shows the number of shares
of SOUTHERN common stock and operating subsidiary preferred stock owned by the
directors, nominees and executive officers as of December 31, 1996. It is based
on information furnished by the directors, nominees and executive officers. The
shares owned by all directors, nominees and executive officers as a group
constitute less than one percent of the total number of shares of the respective
classes outstanding on December 31, 1996.


                                     III-30





                                     III-31



                                     III-32



                                     III-33




                                     III-34




                                     III-35





                                     
Item 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                                     ALABAMA

Transactions with management and others.

    Mr. Whit Armstrong is President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of 
The Citizens Bank, Enterprise, Alabama; Mr. Carl E.Jones, Jr. is President and 
Chief Operating Officer of Regions Bank, Birmingham, Alabama; Mr. Wallace D. 
Malone is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SouthTrust Corporation, 
Birmingham, Alabama.  During 1996, these banks furnished a number of regular
banking services in the ordinary course of business to ALABAMA.  ALABAMA 
intends to maintain normal banking relations with all the aforesaid banks in 
the future.

Certain business relationships.
           None.

Indebtedness of management.
           None.

Transactions with promoters.
           None.

                                     GEORGIA

Transactions with management and others.

    Mr. L. G. Hardman III is Chairman of the Board of The First National Bank
of Commerce, Georgia; Mr. James R. Lientz, Jr. is President of NationsBank of 
Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia; Mr. G. Joseph Prendergast is Chairman of Wachovia 
Bank of Georgia, N.A., Atlanta, Georgia; and Mr. Herman J. Russell is Chairman
of the Board of Citizens Trust Bank, Atlanta, Georgia.  During 1996, these
banks furnished a number of regular banking services in the ordinary course of
business to GEORGIA.  GEORGIA intends to maintain normal banking relations 
with all the aforesaid banks in the future.

    In 1996, GEORGIA leased a building from Riverside Manufacturing Co. for 
approximately $77,000.  Mr. William J. Vereen is Chief Executive Officer, 
President, Treasurer and Director of Riverside Manufacturing Co.


Certain business relationships.
           None.

Indebtedness of management.
           None.

Transactions with promoters.
           None.
                                      GULF

Transactions with management and others.

    Mr. W. Deck Hull, Jr. is Vice Chairman of SunTrust Bank, West Florida, 
Panama City, Florida.  During 1996, this bank furnished a number of regular 
banking services in the ordinary course of business to GULF.  GULF intends to 
maintain normal banking relations with the aforesaid bank in the future.

    The firm of Beggs & Lane, P.A. serves as local counsel for GULF and 
received from GULF approximately $960,994 for services rendered.  Mr. G. 
Edison Holland, Jr. is a partner in the firm and also serves as Vice President
 - Power Generation/Transmission and Corporate Counsel of GULF.

Certain business relationships.
           None.

Indebtedness of management.
           None.

Transactions with promoters.
           None.

                                   MISSISSIPPI

Transactions with management and others.

     Mr. Robert S. Gaddis is Chairman of the Advisory Board of Trustmark 
National Bank, Laurel, Mississippi; Mr. George A. Schloegel is President of
Hancock Bank, Gulfport, Mississippi and Mr. N. Eugene Warr is a director of
Coast Community Bank.  During 1996, these banks furnished a number of regular 
banking services in the ordinary course of business to MISSISSIPPI.
MISSISSIPPI intends to maintain normal banking relations with the aforesaid
banks in the future.

Certain business relationships.
          None.

Indebtedness of management.
          None.

Transactions with promoters.
          None.

                                     III-36


                                    SAVANNAH

Transactions with management and others.
         None

Certain business relationships.
           None.

Indebtedness of management.
           None.

Transactions with promoters.
           None.



                                     III-37



                                     PART IV

Item 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this report on this Form
10-K:

     (1) Financial Statements:

         Reports of Independent Public Accountants on the financial statements
         for SOUTHERN and Subsidiary Companies, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
         MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH are listed under Item 8 herein.

         The financial statements filed as a part of this report for SOUTHERN
         and Subsidiary Companies, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and
         SAVANNAH are listed under Item 8 herein.

     (2) Financial Statement Schedules:

         Reports of Independent Public Accountants as to Schedules for SOUTHERN
         and Subsidiary Companies, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and
         SAVANNAH are included herein on pages IV-12 through IV-17.

         Financial Statement Schedules for SOUTHERN and Subsidiary Companies,
         ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH are listed in the
         Index to the Financial Statement Schedules at page S-1.

     (3) Exhibits:

         Exhibits for SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH
are listed in the Exhibit Index at page E-1.


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of 1996 were as follows:

     SOUTHERN filed a Current Report on Form 8-K:

              Date of event: October 9, 1996
              Items reported: Items 5 and 7

     GULF filed a Current Report on Form 8-K:

              Date of event:  November 6, 1996
              Items reported: Items 5 and 7

                                      IV-1




Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     THE SOUTHERN COMPANY

     By:   A. W. Dahlberg, Chairman, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated. The signature of each of the
undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     A. W. Dahlberg
     Chairman of the Board, President and
     Chief Executive Officer
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     W. L. Westbrook
     Financial Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
     Treasurer
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

                           Directors:
      John C. Adams               Elmer B. Harris
      A. D. Correll               William A. Parker, Jr.
      Paul J. DeNicola            William J. Rushton, III
      Jack Edwards                Gloria M. Shatto
      H. Allen Franklin           Gerald J. St. Pe'
      Bruce S. Gordon             Herbert Stockham
      L. G. Hardman III

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

     By:   Elmer B. Harris, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated. The signature of each of the
undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     Elmer B. Harris
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     William B. Hutchins, III
     Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
     (Principal Financial Officer)

     David L. Whitson
     Vice President and Comptroller
     (Principal Accounting Officer)

                          Directors:
      Whit Armstrong                   Gerald H. Powell
      Peter V. Gregerson, Sr.          Robert D. Powers
      Bill M. Guthrie                  John W. Rouse
      Wallace D. Malone, Jr.           James H. Sanford
      William V. Muse                  John Cox Webb, IV
      John T. Porter

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

                                      IV-2



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

     By:   H. Allen Franklin, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated. The signature of each of the
undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     H. Allen Franklin
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     Warren Y. Jobe
     Executive Vice President, Treasurer,
     Chief Financial Officer and Director
     (Principal Financial Officer)

     Cliff S. Thrasher
     Vice President, Comptroller and Chief Accounting Officer
     (Principal Accounting Officer)

                           Directors:
       Bennett A. Brown           Herman J. Russell
       William A. Fickling, Jr.   Gloria M. Shatto
       L. G. Hardman III          William Jerry Vereen
       James R. Lientz, Jr.       Carl Ware
       G. Joseph Prendergast      Thomas R. Williams

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     GULF POWER COMPANY

     By:   Travis J. Bowden, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated. The signature of each of the
undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     Travis J. Bowden
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     Arlan E. Scarbrough
     Vice President - Finance
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

                         Directors:
       Paul J. DeNicola         Joseph K. Tannehill
       Fred C. Donovan          Barbara H. Thames
       W. Deck Hull, Jr.

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

                                      IV-3



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

     By:   Dwight H. Evans, President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated. The signature of each of the
undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     Dwight H. Evans
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     Michael W. Southern
     Vice President, Secretary, Treasurer and
     Chief Financial Officer
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

                          Directors:
        Paul J. DeNicola        Aubrey K. Lucas
        Edwin E. Downer         George A. Schloegel
        Robert S. Gaddis        Philip J. Terrell
        Walter H. Hurt, III     Gene Warr

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

     By:   Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr., President and
           Chief Executive Officer

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated. The signature of each of the
undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference to the
above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

      Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr.
      President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
      (Principal Executive Officer)

      Kirby R. Willis
      Vice President, Treasurer and
      Chief Financial Officer
      (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

                         Directors:
       Helen Q. Artley        Robert B. Miller, III
       Archie H. Davis        Arnold M. Tenenbaum
       Paul J. DeNicola       Frederick F. Williams, Jr.
       Walter D. Gnann

     By:   Wayne Boston
           (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

     Date: March 21, 1997


                                      IV-4


Exhibit 21.      Subsidiaries of the Registrants.*

                                                          Jurisdiction of
 Name of Company                                           Organization
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Alabama Power Company                                          Alabama
     Alabama Power Capital Trust I                              Delaware
     Alabama Power Capital Trust II                             Delaware
     Alabama Power Capital Trust III                            Delaware
     Alabama Power Capital Trust IV                             Delaware
     Alabama Property Company                                   Alabama
     Southern Electric Generating Company                       Alabama

 Georgia Power Company                                          Georgia
     Georgia Power Capital Trust I                              Delaware
     Georgia Power Capital Trust II                             Delaware
     Georgia Power Capital Trust III                            Delaware
     Georgia Power L.P. Holdings Corp.                          Georgia
        Georgia Power Capital, L.P.                             Delaware
     Piedmont-Forrest Corporation                               Georgia
     Southern Electric Generating Company                       Alabama

 Gulf Power Company                                             Maine
     Gulf Power Capital Trust I                                 Delaware
     Gulf Power Capital Trust II                                Delaware

 Mississippi Power Company                                      Mississippi

 Savannah Electric and Power Company                            Georgia

 SEI Holdings, Inc.                                             Delaware
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

*This information is as of December 31, 1996. In addition, the list omits
certain subsidiaries pursuant to paragraph (b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K Item
601.



                                      IV-5



                               Arthur Andersen LLP
                                                                  Exhibit 23(a)





                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 12, 1997 on the financial statements of The
Southern Company and its subsidiaries and the related financial statement
schedule, included in this Form 10-K, into The Southern Company's previously
filed Registration Statement File Nos. 2-78617, 33-3546, 33-30171, 33-51433,
33-54415, 33-57951, 33-58371, 33-60427, 333-07539 and 333-09077.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
March 20, 1997









                                      IV-6



                               Arthur Andersen LLP


                                                                  Exhibit 23(b)





                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 12, 1997 on the financial statements of Alabama
Power Company and the related financial statement schedule, included in this
Form 10-K, into Alabama Power Company's previously filed Registration Statement
File Nos. 33-49653, 33-61845 and 333-17333.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Birmingham, Alabama
March 20, 1997




                                      IV-7





                               Arthur Andersen LLP


                                                                  Exhibit 23(c)





                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 12, 1997 on the financial statements of Georgia
Power Company and the related financial statement schedule, included in this
Form 10-K, into Georgia Power Company's previously filed Registration Statement
File Nos. 33-49661 and 33-60345.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
March 20, 1997





                                      IV-8




                               Arthur Andersen LLP


                                                                  Exhibit 23(d)





                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 12, 1997 on the financial statements of Gulf Power
Company and the related financial statement schedule, included in this Form
10-K, into Gulf Power Company's previously filed Registration Statement File
Nos. 33-50165 and 333-19271.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
March 20, 1997




                                      IV-9




                               Arthur Andersen LLP


                                                                  Exhibit 23(e)





                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





     As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 12, 1997 on the financial statements of
Mississippi Power Company and the related financial statement schedule, included
in this Form 10-K, into Mississippi Power Company's previously filed
Registration Statement File Nos. 33-49320, 33-49649 and 333-20469.


                                           /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
March 20, 1997







                                     IV-10




                               Arthur Andersen LLP


                                                                 Exhibit 23(f)





                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





      As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 12, 1997 on the financial statements of Savannah
Electric and Power Company and the related financial statement schedule,
included in this Form 10-K, into Savannah Electric and Power Company's
previously filed Registration Statement File No. 33-52509.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
March 20, 1997









                                     IV-11





                               Arthur Andersen LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To The Southern Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements of The Southern Company and its
subsidiaries included in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon
dated February 12, 1997. Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an
opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed under Item
14(a)(2) herein as it relates to The Southern Company and its subsidiaries (page
S-2) is the responsibility of The Southern Company's management and is presented
for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules
and is not part of the basic consolidated financial statements. This schedule
has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic
consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997







                                     IV-12







                               Arthur Andersen LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Alabama Power Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Alabama Power Company included in this Form 10-K,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 12, 1997. Our audits were made
for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The
schedule listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to Alabama Power
Company (page S-3) is the responsibility of Alabama Power Company's management
and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Birmingham, Alabama
February 12, 1997






                                     IV-13





                               Arthur Andersen LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Georgia Power Company:

      We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Georgia Power Company included in this Form 10-K,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 12, 1997. Our audits were made
for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The
schedule listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to Georgia Power
Company (page S-4) is the responsibility of Georgia Power Company's management
and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997





                                     IV-14





                               Arthur Andersen LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Gulf Power Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Gulf Power Company included in this Form 10-K, and
have issued our report thereon dated February 12, 1997. Our audits were made for
the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The
schedule listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to Gulf Power Company
(page S-5) is the responsibility of Gulf Power Company's management and is
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP



Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997






                                     IV-15





                               Arthur Andersen LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Mississippi Power Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Mississippi Power Company included in this Form
10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated February 12, 1997. Our audits
were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a
whole. The schedule listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to
Mississippi Power Company (page S-6) is the responsibility of Mississippi Power
Company's management and is presented for purposes of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic
financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997




                                     IV-16





                               Arthur Andersen LLP


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Savannah Electric and Power Company:

    We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Savannah Electric and Power Company included in this
Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated February 12, 1997. Our
audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken
as a whole. The schedule listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to
Savannah Electric and Power Company (page S-7) is the responsibility of Savannah
Electric and Power Company's management and is presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of
the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data required to
be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.


                             /s/Arthur Andersen LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
February 12, 1997







                                     IV-17




                                      S-1



                                      S-2





                                      S-3




                                      S-4




                                      S-5



                                      S-6



                                      S-7


                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

    The following exhibits indicated by an asterisk preceding the exhibit number
are filed herewith. The balance of the exhibits have heretofore been filed with
the SEC, respectively, as the exhibits and in the file numbers indicated and are
incorporated herein by reference. Reference is made to a duplicate list of
exhibits being filed as a part of this Form 10-K, which list, prepared in
accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K of the SEC, immediately precedes the
exhibits being physically filed with this Form 10-K.

(1)      Underwriting Agreements

         GEORGIA


        (c)   -Distribution  Agreement dated November 29, 1995 between GEORGIA
               and Lehman Brothers Inc.; Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities
               Corporation;  J. P. Morgan Securities Inc.;  Salomon Brothers Inc
               and Smith Barney Inc.  relating to  $300,000,000  First  Mortgage
               Bonds Secured  Medium-Term  Notes.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, as Exhibit 1(c).)


(3)      Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws

         SOUTHERN

        (a)1  -Composite   Certificate  of   Incorporation   of  SOUTHERN,
               reflecting  all  amendments  thereto  through  January  5,  1994.
               (Designated  in  Registration  No.  33-3546 as Exhibit  4(a),  in
               Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-7341,  as Exhibit A and
               in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8181, as Exhibit A.)

        (a)2  -By-laws of SOUTHERN as amended  effective  October 21,  1991,
               and as presently  in effect.  (Designated  in Form U-1,  File No.
               70-8181, as Exhibit A-2.)

         ALABAMA

        (b)1  -Charter of ALABAMA and amendments thereto through October 14,
               1994.  (Designated in Registration  Nos. 2-59634 as Exhibit 2(b),
               2-60209 as Exhibit  2(c),  2-60484  as Exhibit  2(b),  2-70838 as
               Exhibit 4(a)-2,  2-85987 as Exhibit  4(a)-2,  33-25539 as Exhibit
               4(a)-2, 33-43917 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in Form 8-K dated February 5,
               1992, File No. 1-3164,  as Exhibit 4(b)-3, in Form 8-K dated July
               8, 1992, File No. 1-3164,  as Exhibit  4(b)-3,  in Form 8-K dated
               October 27, 1993, File No. 1-3164,  as Exhibits 4(a) and 4(b), in
               Form 8-K dated  November 16, 1993,  File No.  1-3164,  as Exhibit
               4(a) and in Certificate of  Notification,  File No.  70-8191,  as
               Exhibit A.)

        (b)2  -By-laws of ALABAMA as amended effective July 23, 1993, and as
               presently in effect.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No.  70-8191,
               as Exhibit A-2.)

                                      E-1




         GEORGIA

        (c)1  -Charter of GEORGIA and amendments thereto through October 25,
               1993. (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-63392 as Exhibit 2(a)-2,
               2-78913 as Exhibits  4(a)-(2)  and  4(a)-(3),  2-93039 as Exhibit
               4(a)-(2),  2-96810 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-141 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2),
               33-1359 as Exhibit 4(a)(2), 33-5405 as Exhibit 4(b)(2),  33-14367
               as Exhibits 4(b)-(2) and 4(b)-(3), 33-22504 as Exhibits 4(b)-(2),
               4(b)-(3) and 4(b)-(4),  in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended
               December  31,  1991,  File No.  1-6468,  as Exhibits  4(a)(2) and
               4(a)(3),  in Registration  No. 33-48895 as Exhibits  4(b)-(2) and
               4(b)-(3), in Form 8-K dated December 10, 1992, File No. 1-6468 as
               Exhibit 4(b), in Form 8-K dated June 17, 1993,  File No.  1-6468,
               as Exhibit 4(b) and in Form 8-K dated October 20, 1993,  File No.
               1-6468, as Exhibit 4(b).)

        (c)2  -By-laws of GEORGIA as amended effective July 18, 1990, and as
               presently in effect.  (Designated  in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 3.)

         GULF

        (d)1  -Restated  Articles of  Incorporation  of GULF and  amendments
               thereto through November 8, 1993. (Designated in Registration No.
               33-43739 as Exhibit  4(b)-1,  in Form 8-K dated January 15, 1992,
               File No.  0-2429,  as Exhibit  1(b), in Form 8-K dated August 18,
               1992,  File No.  0-2429,  as  Exhibit  4(b)-2,  in Form 8-K dated
               September 22, 1993, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4 and in Form 8-K
               dated November 3, 1993, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.)

        (d)2  -By-laws of GULF as amended  effective  July 26, 1996,  and as
               presently in effect.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No.  70-8949,
               as Exhibit A-2(c).)

         MISSISSIPPI

        (e)1  -Articles of incorporation of MISSISSIPPI,  articles of merger
               of  Mississippi   Power  Company  (a  Maine   corporation)   into
               MISSISSIPPI   and  articles  of  amendment  to  the  articles  of
               incorporation of MISSISSIPPI through August 19, 1993. (Designated
               in Registration  No. 2-71540 as Exhibit  4(a)-1,  in Form U5S for
               1987, File No.  30-222-2,  as Exhibit B-10, in  Registration  No.
               33-49320 as Exhibit  4(b)-(1),  in Form 8-K dated August 5, 1992,
               File No. 0-6849, as Exhibits 4(b)-2 and 4(b)-3, in Form 8-K dated
               August 4, 1993,  File No.  0-6849,  as Exhibit 4(b)-3 and in Form
               8-K dated August 18, 1993, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(b)-3.)

        (e)2  -By-laws of  MISSISSIPPI as amended  effective  April 2, 1996,
               and as  presently  in effect.  (Designated  in Form U5S for 1995,
               File No. 30-222-2, as Exhibit B-10.)

         SAVANNAH

        (f)1  -Charter of SAVANNAH and amendments  thereto through  November
               10, 1993.  (Designated in Registration  Nos.  33-25183 as Exhibit
               4(b)-(1),  33-45757  as  Exhibit  4(b)-(2)  and in Form 8-K dated
               November 9, 1993, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4(b).)


                                      E-2





        (f)2  -By-laws of SAVANNAH as amended  effective  February 16, 1994,
               and as presently in effect.  (Designated in SAVANNAH's  Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1993, as Exhibit 3(f)2.)

(4)      Instruments Describing Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures

         ALABAMA

        (b)1  -Indenture  dated as of January 1, 1942,  between  ALABAMA and
               The Chase  Manhattan Bank (formerly  Chemical  Bank), as Trustee,
               and  indentures  supplemental  thereto  through  that dated as of
               December 1, 1994.  (Designated in  Registration  Nos.  2-59843 as
               Exhibit 2(a)-2, 2-60484 as Exhibits 2(a)-3 and 2(a)-4, 2-60716 as
               Exhibit 2(c),  2-67574 as Exhibit 2(c),  2-68687 as Exhibit 2(c),
               2-69599 as Exhibit 4(a)-2,  2-71364 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 2-73727 as
               Exhibit 4(a)-2,  33-5079 as Exhibit  4(a)-2,  33-17083 as Exhibit
               4(a)-2,  33-22090 as Exhibit  4(a)-2,  in ALABAMA's Form 10-K for
               the year ended  December 31, 1990,  File No.  1-3164,  as Exhibit
               4(c), in Registration Nos.  33-43917 as Exhibit 4(a)-2,  33-45492
               as Exhibit  4(a)-2,  33-48885  as  Exhibit  4(a)-2,  33-48917  as
               Exhibit  4(a)-2,  in Form 8-K dated  January 20,  1993,  File No.
               1-3436,  as Exhibit 4(a)-3,  in Form 8-K dated February 17, 1993,
               File No. 1-3436,  as Exhibit 4(a)-3,  in Form 8-K dated March 10,
               1993,  File No.  1-3436,  as Exhibit  4(a)-3,  in  Certificate of
               Notification,  File No. 70-8069, as Exhibits A and B, in Form 8-K
               dated  June  24,  1993,  File  No.  1-3436,   as  Exhibit  4,  in
               Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8069,  as Exhibit A, in
               Form 8-K dated  November 16, 1993,  File No.  1-3436,  as Exhibit
               4(b),  in  Certificate  of  Notification,  File No.  70-8069,  as
               Exhibits  A and B,  in  Certificate  of  Notification,  File  No.
               70-8069,  as Exhibit A, in Certificate of Notification,  File No.
               70-8069,  as Exhibit A and in Form 8-K dated  November  30, 1994,
               File No. 1-3436, as Exhibit 4.)

        (b)2  -Subordinated  Note  Indenture  dated as of  January 1, 1996,
               between ALABAMA and The Chase  Manhattan Bank (formerly  Chemical
               Bank), as Trustee, and indenture supplemental thereto dated as of
               January 1, 1996. (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File
               No. 70-8461, as Exhibits E and F.)

        (b)3  -Subordinated  Note  Indenture  dated as of  January 1, 1997,
               between  ALABAMA and The Chase  Manhattan  Bank, as Trustee,  and
               indenture  supplemental  thereto  dated as of  January  1,  1997.
               (Designated  in Form 8-K dated January 9, 1997,  File No. 1-3436,
               as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2.)

        (b)4  -Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Alabama Power Capital
               Trust I dated as of January 1, 1996.  (Designated  in Certificate
               of Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit D.)

        (b)5  -Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Alabama Power Capital
               Trust II dated as of  January 1,  1997.  (Designated  in Form 8-K
               dated January 9, 1997, File No. 1-3436, as Exhibit 4.5.)

        (b)6  -Guarantee Agreement relating to Alabama Power Capital Trust I
               dated as of  January  1,  1996.  (Designated  in  Certificate  of
               Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit G.)


                                      E-3






        (b)7  -Guarantee  Agreement  relating to Alabama Power Capital Trust
               II dated as of  January 1,  1997.  (Designated  in Form 8-K dated
               January 9, 1997, File No. 1-3436, as Exhibit 4.8.)

         GEORGIA

        (c)1  -Indenture dated as of March 1, 1941,  between GEORGIA and The
               Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly  Chemical  Bank), as Trustee,  and
               indentures  supplemental thereto dated as of March 1, 1941, March
               3, 1941 (3 indentures),  March 6, 1941 (139 indentures), March 1,
               1946 (88  indentures)  and December 1, 1947,  through October 15,
               1995. (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-4663 as Exhibits B-3 and
               B-3(a),  2-7299 as Exhibit 7(a)-2,  2-61116 as Exhibit 2(a)-3 and
               2(a)-4,  2-62488 as Exhibit  2(a)-3,  2-63393 as Exhibit  2(a)-4,
               2-63705 as Exhibit 2(a)-3,  2-68973 as Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-70679 as
               Exhibit 4(a)-(2),  2-72324 as Exhibit 4(a)-2,  2-73987 as Exhibit
               4(a)-(2),  2-77941 as Exhibits 4(a)-(2) and 4(a)-(3),  2-79336 as
               Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-81303 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-90105 as Exhibit
               4(a)-(2),  33-5405  as Exhibit  4(a)-(2),  33-14367  as  Exhibits
               4(a)-(2) and 4(a)-(3),  33-22504 as Exhibits  4(a)-(2),  4(a)-(3)
               and 4(a)-(4),  33-32420 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2),  33-35683 as Exhibit
               4(a)-(2),  in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
               1990, File No. 1-6468,  as Exhibit 4(a)(3),  in Form 10-K for the
               year  ended  December  31,  1991,  File No.  1-6468,  as  Exhibit
               4(a)(5),  in Registration  No. 33-48895 as Exhibit  4(a)-(2),  in
               Form 8-K dated  August  26,  1992,  File No.  1-6468,  as Exhibit
               4(a)-(3),  in Form 8-K dated  September 9, 1992, File No. 1-6468,
               as Exhibits  4(a)-(3) and 4(a)-(4),  in Form 8-K dated  September
               23, 1992, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(a)-(3), in Form 8-A dated
               October 12, 1992,  as Exhibit 2(b), in Form 8-K dated January 27,
               1993, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit  4(a)-(3),  in Registration No.
               33-49661 as Exhibit  4(a)-(2),  in Form 8-K dated July 26,  1993,
               File No. 1-6468,  as Exhibit 4, in  Certificate of  Notification,
               File No. 70-7832,  as Exhibit M, in Certificate of  Notification,
               File No. 70-7832,  as Exhibit C, in Certificate of  Notification,
               File  No.  70-7832,  as  Exhibits  K and  L,  in  Certificate  of
               Notification,  File No. 70-8443,  as Exhibit C, in Certificate of
               Notification,  File No. 70-8443,  as Exhibit C, in Certificate of
               Notification,  File No. 70-8443,  as Exhibit E, in Certificate of
               Notification,  File No. 70-8443,  as Exhibit E, in Certificate of
               Notification,  File No. 70-8443,  as Exhibit E, in GEORGIA's Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,  File No.  1-6468,  as
               Exhibits 4(c)2 and 4(c)3,  in Certificate of  Notification,  File
               No. 70-8443,  as Exhibit C, in Certificate of Notification,  File
               No.  70-8443,  as Exhibit C, in Form 8-K dated May 17, 1995, File
               No. 1-6468,  as Exhibit 4 and in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year
               ended  December 31, 1995,  File No.  1-6468,  as Exhibits  4(c)2,
               4(c)3, 4(c)4, 4(c)5 and 4(c)6.)

        (c)2  -Indenture  dated as of December 1, 1994,  between GEORGIA and
               Trust  Company  Bank,  as  Trustee  and  indentures  supplemental
               thereto  through that dated as of December 15, 1994.  (Designated
               in Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8461,  as Exhibits E
               and F.)


                                      E-4






        (c)3  -Subordinated  Note  Indenture  dated as of August  1,  1996,
               between  GEORGIA and The Chase  Manhattan  Bank, as Trustee,  and
               indentures   supplemental   thereto   through  January  1,  1997.
               (Designated  in Form 8-K dated August 21, 1996,  File No. 1-6468,
               as  Exhibits  4.1 and 4.2 and in Form 8-K dated  January 9, 1997,
               File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4.2.)

        (c)4  -Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Georgia Power Capital
               Trust I dated as of August 1, 1996. (Designated in Form 8-K dated
               August 21, 1996, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4.5.)

        (c)5  -Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Georgia Power Capital
               Trust II dated as of  January 1,  1997.  (Designated  in Form 8-K
               dated January 9, 1997, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4.5.)

        (c)6  -Guarantee Agreement relating to Georgia Power Capital Trust I
               dated as of August 1, 1996.  (Designated in Form 8-K dated August
               21, 1996, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4.8.)

        (c)7  -Guarantee  Agreement  relating to Georgia Power Capital Trust
               II dated as of  January 1,  1997.  (Designated  in Form 8-K dated
               January 9, 1997, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4.8.)

         GULF

        (d)1  -Indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, between GULF and The
               Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank (National
               Association)),  as Trustee,  and indentures  supplemental thereto
               through November 1, 1996. (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-4833
               as Exhibit  B-3,  2-62319 as Exhibit  2(a)-3,  2-63765 as Exhibit
               2(a)-3,  2-66260 as Exhibit  2(a)-3,  33-2809 as Exhibit  4(a)-2,
               33-43739  as  Exhibit  4(a)-2,  in GULF's  Form 10-K for the year
               ended  December 31, 1991,  File No.  0-2429,  as Exhibit 4(b), in
               Form 8-K dated  August  18,  1992,  File No.  0-2429,  as Exhibit
               4(a)-3,  in Registration No. 33-50165 as Exhibit 4(a)-2,  in Form
               8-K dated  July 12,  1993,  File No.  0-2429,  as  Exhibit  4, in
               Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8229,  as Exhibit A, in
               Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8229, as Exhibits E and
               F, in Form 8-K  dated  January  17,  1996,  File No.  0-2429,  as
               Exhibit 4, in Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8229,  as
               Exhibit A, in Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8229,  as
               Exhibit  A and in Form  8-K  dated  November  6,  1996,  File No.
               0-2429, as Exhibit 4.)

        (d)2  -Subordinated  Note  Indenture  dated as of  January 1, 1997,
               between  GULF and The  Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  as  Trustee,  and
               indenture  supplemental  thereto  dated as of  January  1,  1997.
               (Designated in Form 8-K dated January 27, 1997,  File No. 0-2429,
               as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2.)

        (d)3  -Amended and Restated  Trust  Agreement of Gulf Power  Capital
               Trust I dated as of  January  1,  1997.  (Designated  in Form 8-K
               dated January 27, 1997, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.5.)


                                      E-5






        (d)4  -Guarantee  Agreement  relating to Gulf Power  Capital Trust I
               dated as of  January  1,  1997.  (Designated  in Form  8-K  dated
               January 27, 1997, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.8.)

         MISSISSIPPI

        (e)1  -Indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, between  MISSISSIPPI
               and Bankers Trust Company,  as Successor Trustee,  and indentures
               supplemental  thereto  through  December 1, 1995.  (Designated in
               Registration  Nos.  2-4834 as  Exhibit  B-3,  2-62965  as Exhibit
               2(b)-2,  2-66845 as Exhibit 2(b)-2,  2-71537 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2),
               33-5414 as Exhibit  4(a)-(2),  33-39833  as  Exhibit  4(a)-2,  in
               MISSISSIPPI's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  1991,
               File No.  0-6849,  as Exhibit  4(b),  in Form 8-K dated August 5,
               1992, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(a)-2,  in Second  Certificate
               of Notification, File No. 70-7941, as Exhibit I, in MISSISSIPPI's
               Form 8-K dated  February 26, 1993,  File No.  0-6849,  as Exhibit
               4(a)-2,  in Certificate of  Notification,  File No.  70-8127,  as
               Exhibit A, in Form 8-K dated June 22, 1993,  File No. 0-6849,  as
               Exhibit 1, in Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8127,  as
               Exhibit A, in Form 8-K dated March 8, 1994,  File No. 0-6849,  as
               Exhibit 4, in Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8127,  as
               Exhibit  C and in Form  8-K  dated  December  5,  1995,  File No.
               0-6849, as Exhibit 4.)

         SAVANNAH

        (f)   -Indenture dated as of March 1, 1945,  between SAVANNAH and Bank
               of New York, New York, as Trustee,  and  indentures  supplemental
               thereto  through May 1, 1996.  (Designated in  Registration  Nos.
               33-25183  as Exhibit  4(a)-(1),  33-41496  as  Exhibit  4(a)-(2),
               33-45757 as Exhibit  4(a)-(2),  in  SAVANNAH's  Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1991,  File No. 1-5072,  as Exhibit 4(b),
               in Form 8-K dated  July 8,  1992,  File No.  1-5072,  as  Exhibit
               4(a)-3, in Registration No. 33-50587 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), in Form
               8-K dated July 22, 1993,  File No. 1-5072,  as Exhibit 4, in Form
               8-K dated May 18, 1995, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4 and in Form
               8-K dated May 23, 1996, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4.)

 (10)    Material Contracts

         SOUTHERN

        (a)1  -Service  contracts  dated as of January 1, 1984 and Amendment
               No. 1 dated as of  September  6, 1985,  between SCS and  ALABAMA,
               GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SEGCO and SOUTHERN.  (Designated in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1984,  File
               No. 1-3526,  as Exhibit 10(a) and in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the
               year  ended  December  31,  1985,  File No.  1-3526,  as  Exhibit
               10(a)(3).)

        (a)2  -Service  contract dated as of July 17, 1981,  between SCS and
               SEI.  (Designated  in  SOUTHERN's  Form  10-K for the year  ended
               December 31, 1985, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)(2).)


                                      E-6






        (a)3  -Service  contract dated as of March 3, 1988,  between SCS and
               SAVANNAH.  (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10-p.)

        (a)4  -Service  contract  dated as of January 15, 1991,  between SCS
               and Southern Nuclear. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the
               year  ended  December  31,  1991,  File No.  1-3526,  as  Exhibit
               10(a)(4).)

        (a)5  -Service  Contract dated as of December 12, 1994,  between SCS
               and  Mobile  Energy  Services   Company,   Inc.   (Designated  in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,  File
               No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)58.)

        (a)6  -Interchange  contract  dated  October  28,  1988,  effective
               January 1, 1989,  between ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,
               SAVANNAH and SCS.  (Designated  in  SAVANNAH's  Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(b).)

        (a)7  -Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959, Amendment No. 1 dated
               as of October 27, 1982 and Amendment No. 2 dated November 4, 1993
               and  effective  June 1, 1994,  among SEGCO,  ALABAMA and GEORGIA.
               (Designated  in  Registration  No.  2-59634 as Exhibit  5(c),  in
               GEORGIA's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1982,  File
               No.  1-6468,  as Exhibit  10(d)(2) and in ALABAMA's Form 10-K for
               the year ended  December 31, 1994,  File No.  1-3164,  as Exhibit
               10(b)18.)

        (a)8  -Joint Committee  Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, among
               GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  (Designated in Registration  No.
               2-61116 as Exhibit 5(d).)

        (a)9  -Edwin  I.  Hatch  Nuclear  Plant   Purchase  and  Ownership
               Participation  Agreement  dated as of January  6,  1975,  between
               GEORGIA and OPC. (Designated in Form 8-K for January,  1975, File
               No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(1).)

        (a)10 -Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as of
               January 6, 1975, between GEORGIA and OPC. (Designated in Form 8-K
               for January, 1975, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(3).)

        (a)11 -Revised  and  Restated   Integrated   Transmission  System
               Agreement dated as of November 12, 1990, between GEORGIA and OPC.
               (Designated  in GEORGIA's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December
               31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(g).)

        (a)12 -Plant  Hal  Wansley  Purchase  and  Ownership  Participation
               Agreement  dated as of March 26, 1976,  between  GEORGIA and OPC.
               (Designated in Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-5592, as
               Exhibit A.)

        (a)13 -Plant Hal Wansley Operating  Agreement dated as of March 26,
               1976,  between  GEORGIA and OPC.  (Designated  in  Certificate of
               Notification, File No. 70-5592, as Exhibit B.)



                                      E-7






        (a)14 -Edwin  I.  Hatch  Nuclear  Plant  Purchase  and  Ownership
               Participation  Agreement  dated as of August  27,  1976,  between
               GEORGIA,  MEAG and  Dalton.  (Designated  in Form 8-K dated as of
               June 13, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(1).)

        (a)15 -Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as of
               August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA, MEAG and Dalton. (Designated in
               Form 8-K for February 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(2).)

        (a)16 -Alvin W. Vogtle  Nuclear  Units  Number One and Two Purchase
               and Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976
               and Amendment No. 1 dated as of January 18, 1977,  among GEORGIA,
               OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-5792,
               as Exhibit B-1 and in Form 8-K for January 1977, File No. 1-6468,
               as Exhibit (B)(3).)

        (a)17 -Alvin W. Vogtle  Nuclear  Units Number One and Two Operating
               Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976,  among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG
               and Dalton. (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-5792, as Exhibit
               B-2.)

        (a)18 -Alvin W. Vogtle  Nuclear  Units Number One and Two Purchase,
               Amendment,  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  dated  as  of
               November  16,  1983,  between  GEORGIA and MEAG.  (Designated  in
               GEORGIA's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1983,  File
               No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(k)(4).)

        (a)19 -Plant  Hal  Wansley  Purchase  and  Ownership  Participation
               Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976,  between GEORGIA and MEAG.
               (Designated  in Form  8-K  dated  as of July 5,  1977,  File  No.
               1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(2).)

        (a)20 -Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of August 27,
               1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG.  (Designated in Form 8-K dated as
               of July 5, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(4).)

        (a)21 -Integrated  Transmission System Agreement dated as of August
               27, 1976,  between  GEORGIA and Dalton.  (Designated  in Form 8-K
               dated as of July 5, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(8).)

        (a)22 -Integrated  Transmission System Agreement dated as of August
               27, 1976,  between GEORGIA and MEAG.  (Designated in Form 8-K for
               February 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(4).)

        (a)23 -Plant  Hal  Wansley  Purchase  and  Ownership  Participation
               Agreement dated as of April 19, 1977, between GEORGIA and Dalton.
               (Designated  in Form  8-K  dated as of June  13,  1977,  File No.
               1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(3).)

        (a)24 -Plant Hal Wansley Operating  Agreement dated as of April 19,
               1977,  between GEORGIA and Dalton.  (Designated in Form 8-K dated
               as of June 13, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(7).)


                                      E-8






        (a)25 -Plant  Robert W.  Scherer  Units Number One and Two Purchase
               and Ownership  Participation  Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980,
               Amendment  No. 1 dated as of December 30, 1985,  Amendment  No. 2
               dated as of July 1, 1986,  Amendment  No. 3 dated as of August 1,
               1988 and  Amendment  No. 4 dated as of December 31,  1990,  among
               GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No.
               70-6481,  as Exhibit  B-3, in  SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year
               ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(o)(2), in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989,  File
               No. 1-3526,  as Exhibit  10(n)(2) and in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for
               the year ended  December 31, 1993,  File No.  1-3526,  as Exhibit
               10(a)54.)

        (a)26 -Plant Robert W. Scherer  Units Number One and Two  Operating
               Agreement  dated as of May 15, 1980,  Amendment No. 1 dated as of
               December 3, 1985 and  Amendment  No. 2 dated as of  December  31,
               1990,  among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  (Designated in Form
               U-1, File No.  70-6481,  as Exhibit B-4, in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
               10(o)(4) and in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1993, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)55.)

        (a)27 -Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase,  Sale and Option Agreement
               dated as of May 15, 1980,  between GEORGIA and MEAG.  (Designated
               in Form U-1, File No. 70-6481, as Exhibit B-1.)

        (a)28 -Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as
               of May 16, 1980, between GEORGIA and Dalton.  (Designated in Form
               U-1, File No. 70-6481, as Exhibit B-2.)

        (a)29 -Plant  Robert W.  Scherer  Unit Number  Three  Purchase  and
               Ownership  Participation  Agreement  dated as of  March 1,  1984,
               Amendment  No. 1 dated as of July 1,  1986  and  Amendment  No. 2
               dated as of August 1, 1988, between GEORGIA and GULF. (Designated
               in Form U-1, File No. 70-6573, as Exhibit B-4, in SOUTHERN's Form
               10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1987,  as Exhibit  10(o)(2)
               and in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989,
               as Exhibit 10(n)(2).)

        (a)30 -Plant  Robert  W.  Scherer  Unit  Number  Three  Operating
               Agreement  dated as of March 1, 1984,  between  GEORGIA and GULF.
               (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6573, as Exhibit B-5.)

        (a)31 -Plant  Robert W.  Scherer Unit No. Four Amended and Restated
               Purchase  and  Ownership  Participation  Agreement  by and  among
               GEORGIA,  FP&L  and  JEA,  dated  as of  December  31,  1990  and
               Amendment  No. 1 dated as of June 15, 1994.  (Designated  in Form
               U-1, File No. 70-7843, as Exhibit B-1 and in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit
               10(a)60.)


                                      E-9






        (a)32 -Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Operating Agreement by
               and among  GEORGIA,  FP&L and JEA,  dated as of December 31, 1990
               and  Amendment  No. 1 dated as of June 15, 1994.  (Designated  in
               Form U-1, File No. 70-7843, as Exhibit B-2 and in SOUTHERN's Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,  File No.  1-3526,  as
               Exhibit 10(a)61.)

        (a)33 -Amended  and  Restated  Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement  dated
               February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. (Designated
               in MISSISSIPPI's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1981,
               File No. 0-6849,  as Exhibit  10(c)(2) and in GEORGIA's Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1982, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
               10(r)(3).)

        (a)34 -Amended and Restated  Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated May
               19, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated August 30, 1984 and Amendment No.
               2 dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
               MISSISSIPPI  and SCS.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the
               year  ended  December  31,  1982,  File No.  1-6468,  as  Exhibit
               10(s)(2), in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
               1984, File No. 1-3526,  as Exhibit 10(r)(2) and in GEORGIA's Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990,  File No.  1-6468,  as
               Exhibit 10(s)(2).)

        (a)35 -Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988,  between FPC
               and  ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH  and  SCS.
               (Designated  in SAVANNAH's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(d).)

        (a)36 -Amended  Unit Power  Sales  Agreement  dated July 20,  1988,
               between FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH
               and SCS.  (Designated in SAVANNAH's  Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(e).)

        (a)37 -Amended  Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated August 17, 1988,
               between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS.  (Designated  in  SAVANNAH's  Form  10-K for the year  ended
               December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(f).)

        (a)38 -Unit Power Sales Agreement  dated December 8, 1990,  between
               Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS.  (Designated  in  GEORGIA's  Form  10-K for the  year  ended
               December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(x).)

        (a)39 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               (Designated  in GULF's Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
               1991, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 10(1).)

        (a)40 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.



                                      E-10






               (Designated  in GULF's Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
               1991, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 10(m).)

        (a)41 -Rocky  Mountain  Pumped  Storage   Hydroelectric   Project
               Ownership   Participation  Agreement  dated  November  18,  1988,
               between OPC and GEORGIA.  (Designated  in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for
               the year ended  December 31, 1988,  File No.  1-6468,  as Exhibit
               10(x).)

        (a)42 -Rocky  Mountain  Pumped  Storage   Hydroelectric   Project
               Operating  Agreement  dated  November 18,  1988,  between OPC and
               GEORGIA.  (Designated  in GEORGIA's  Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1988, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(y).)

        (a)43 -Purchase  and  Ownership  Agreement  for  Joint  Ownership
               Interest in the James H. Miller,  Jr. Steam  Electric  Generating
               Plant Units One and Two dated November 18, 1988,  between ALABAMA
               and AEC.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No.  70-7609,  as Exhibit
               B-1.)

        (a)44 -Operating  Agreement  for Joint  Ownership  Interest in the
               James H. Miller,  Jr. Steam Electric  Generating  Plant Units One
               and Two  dated  November  18,  1988,  between  ALABAMA  and  AEC.
               (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7609, as Exhibit B-2.)

        (a)45 -Transmission  Facilities  Agreement dated February 25, 1982,
               Amendment  No. 1 dated  May 12,  1982 and  Amendment  No. 2 dated
               December  6,  1983,   between   Gulf   States  and   MISSISSIPPI.
               (Designated  in  MISSISSIPPI's  Form  10-K  for  the  year  ended
               December  31,  1981,  File  No.  0-6849,  as  Exhibit  10(f),  in
               MISSISSIPPI's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  1982,
               File No. 0-6849,  as Exhibit 10(f)(2) and in  MISSISSIPPI's  Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983,  File No.  0-6849,  as
               Exhibit 10(f)(3).)

        (a)46 -Form of commitment agreement,  Amendment No. 1 and Amendment
               No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN,  ALABAMA, GEORGIA and MISSISSIPPI
               revolving credits.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7738, as
               Exhibit A-5 and in Form U-1, File No. 70-7937, as A-5(b).)

        (a)47 -Block Power Sale Agreement  between GEORGIA and OPC dated as
               of November 12, 1990.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the
               year  ended  December  31,  1990,  File No.  1-6468,  as  Exhibit
               10(cc).)

        (a)48 -Coordination  Services  Agreement  between  GEORGIA and OPC
               dated as of November 12, 1990. (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
               10(dd).)

        (a)49 -Amended and Restated  Nuclear  Managing Board  Agreement for
               Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG and Dalton
               dated as of July 1, 1993. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for
               the year ended  December 31, 1993,  File No.  1-3526,  as Exhibit
               10(a)49.)


                                      E-11






        (a)50 -Integrated  Transmission  System  Agreement,  Power Sale and
               Coordination  Umbrella Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC dated as
               of November 12, 1990.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the
               year  ended  December  31,  1990,  File No.  1-6468,  as  Exhibit
               10(ff).)

        (a)51 -Revised  and  Restated   Integrated   Transmission  System
               Agreement  between  GEORGIA  and Dalton  dated as of  December 7,
               1990.  (Designated  in  GEORGIA's  Form  10-K for the year  ended
               December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(gg).)

        (a)52 -Revised  and  Restated   Integrated   Transmission  System
               Agreement  between GEORGIA and MEAG dated as of December 7, 1990.
               (Designated  in GEORGIA's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December
               31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(hh).)

        (a)53 -Long Term  Transmission  Service  Agreement  between Entergy
               Power,  Inc. and ALABAMA,  MISSISSIPPI  and SCS.  (Designated  in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992,  File
               No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)53.)

        (a)54 -Plant Scherer  Managing Board Agreement dated as of December
               31, 1990 among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG,  Dalton,  GULF, FP&L and JEA.
               (Designated  in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1993, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)56.)

        (a)55 -Plant  McIntosh  Combustion  Turbine  Purchase and Ownership
               Participation  Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as of
               December 15, 1992.  (Designated  in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the
               year  ended  December  31,  1993,  File No.  1-3526,  as  Exhibit
               10(a)57.)

        (a)56 -Plant  McIntosh  Combustion  Turbine  Operating  Agreement
               between  GEORGIA  and  SAVANNAH  dated as of December  15,  1992.
               (Designated  in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1993, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)58.)

        (a)57 -Power  Purchase  Agreement  dated  as of  December  3,  1993
               between GEORGIA and FPC.  (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for
               the year ended  December 31, 1993,  File No.  1-3526,  as Exhibit
               10(a)59.)

        (a)58 -Operating  Agreement for the Joseph M. Farley  Nuclear Plant
               between  ALABAMA and  Southern  Nuclear  dated as of December 23,
               1991. (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7530, as Exhibit B-7.)

        (a)59 -Nuclear  Services  Agreement  between  Southern  Nuclear and
               GEORGIA  dated as of October 31, 1991.  (Designated  in Form U-1,
               File No. 70-7530, as Exhibit B-6.)

        (a)60 -Nuclear  Managing Board Agreement  among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG
               and  Dalton  dated  as  of  November  12,  1990.  (Designated  in
               GEORGIA's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31, 1990,  File
               No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(ee).)


                                      E-12






        (a)61 -The Southern Company Productivity  Improvement Plan, Amended
               and Restated effective January 1, 1995. (Designated in SOUTHERN's
               Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File No. 1-3526,
               as Exhibit 10(a)61.)

        (a)62 -The  Southern  Company  Executive  Productivity  Improvement
               Plan,  effective January 1, 1995.  (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File No.  1-3526,  as
               Exhibit 10(a)62.)

        (a)63 -The Southern  Company  Employee  Savings  Plan,  Amended and
               Restated  effective  July 3, 1995 and First  Amendment and Second
               Amendment  thereto.  (Designated in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the
               year  ended  December  31,  1995,  File No.  1-3526,  as  Exhibit
               10(a)63.)

       *(a)64 -Third  Amendment  and Fourth  Amendment  to The Southern
               Company Employee Savings Plan.

        (a)65 -The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  Amended
               and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and First Amendment thereto.
               (Designated  in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1995, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)64.)

       *(a)66 -Second  Amendment to The Southern Company Employee Stock
               Ownership Plan.

        (a)67 -Pension Plan For Employees of ALABAMA,  Amended and Restated
               effective as of January 1, 1989.  (Designated in SOUTHERN's  Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,  File No.  1-3526,  as
               Exhibit 10(a)69.)

       *(a)68 -First Amendment, Second Amendment and Third Amendment to
               the Pension Plan For Employees of ALABAMA.

        (a)69 -Pension Plan For Employees of GEORGIA,  Amended and Restated
               effective as of January 1, 1989.  (Designated in SOUTHERN's  Form
               10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994,  File No.  1-3526,  as
               Exhibit 10(a)70.)

       *(a)70 -First Amendment, Second Amendment and Third Amendment to
               the Pension Plan For Employees of GEORGIA.

        (a)71 -Pension  Plan For  Employees  of SCS,  Amended and  Restated
               effective  as of  January  1, 1989 and First  Amendment  thereto.
               (Designated  in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1994,  File No. 1-3526,  as Exhibit 10(a)71 and in SOUTHERN's
               Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File No. 1-3526,
               as Exhibit 10(a)68.)

       *(a)72 -Second  Amendment,  Third Amendment and Fourth Amendment
               to the Pension Plan For Employees of SCS.

       *(a)73 -The Southern Company  Performance Pay Plan,  Amended and
               Restated effective January 1, 1996.


                                      E-13






        (a)74 -Supplemental  Benefit  Plan  for  ALABAMA.  (Designated  in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File
               No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)71.)

        (a)75 -Supplemental  Benefit  Plan  for  GEORGIA.  (Designated  in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File
               No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)72.)

       *(a)76 -Supplemental  Benefit Plan for SCS and SEI,  Amended and
               Restated effective as of January 1, 1996.

        (a)77 -The  Deferred  Compensation  Plan for the  Directors  of The
               Southern   Company  and  First  Amendment  and  Second  Amendment
               thereto.  (Designated in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1994,  File No.  1-3526,  as Exhibit  10(a)76 and in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File
               No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)75.)

        (a)78 -The  Southern  Company  Outside  Directors  Pension  Plan.
               (Designated  in SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1994, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)77.)

        (a)79 -The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. (Designated
               in  SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31, 1995,
               File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)77.)

        (a)80 -The Southern Company Outside  Directors Stock Plan and First
               Amendment  thereto.  (Designated in Registration  No. 33-54415 as
               Exhibit  4(c) and in  SOUTHERN's  Form  10-K  for the year  ended
               December 31, 1995, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)79.)

        (a)81 -Outside  Directors  Stock  Plan  for  Subsidiaries  of  The
               Southern  Company and First  Amendment  thereto.  (Designated  in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File
               No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)80.)

        (a)82 -The Southern  Company  Executive Stock Plan for the Southern
               Electric System and First Amendment and Second Amendment thereto.
               (Designated in  Registration  No. 33-30171 as Exhibit 4(c) and in
               SOUTHERN's  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File
               No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)82.)

       *(a)83 -The  Southern  Company  Pension  Plan,  effective  as of
               January 1, 1997.

         ALABAMA

        (b)1  -Service  contracts  dated as of January 1, 1984 and Amendment
               No. 1 dated as of  September  6, 1985,  between SCS and  ALABAMA,
               GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SEGCO and  SOUTHERN.  See  Exhibit
               10(a)1 herein.

        (b)2  -Interchange  contract  dated  October  28,  1988,  effective
               January 1, 1989,  between ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,
               SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.


                                      E-14






        (b)3  -Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959, Amendment No. 1 dated
               as of October 27, 1982 and Amendment No. 2 dated November 4, 1993
               and effective June 1, 1994, among SEGCO, ALABAMA and GEORGIA. See
               Exhibit 10(a)7 herein.

        (b)4  -Amended  and  Restated  Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement  dated
               February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit
               10(a)33 herein.

        (b)5  -Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May 19,
               1982, Amendment No. 1, dated August 30, 1984 and Amendment No. 2,
               dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,
               MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)34 herein.

        (b)6  -Unit Power Sales Agreement  dated July 19, 1988,  between FPC
               and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS. See
               Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

        (b)7  -Amended  Unit Power  Sales  Agreement  dated  July 20,  1988,
               between FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH
               and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

        (b)8  -Amended  Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated  August 17, 1988,
               between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

        (b)9  -Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated December 8, 1990,  between
               Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

        (b)10 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

        (b)11 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

        (b)12 -Firm  Power  Purchase  Contract  between  ALABAMA  and AMEA.
               (Designated in Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-7212, as
               Exhibit B.)

        (b)13 -1991 Firm Power Purchase  Contract between ALABAMA and AMEA.
               (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7873, as Exhibit B-1.)

        (b)14 -Purchase  and  Ownership  Agreement  for  Joint  Ownership
               Interest in the James H. Miller,  Jr. Steam  Electric  Generating
               Plant Units One and Two dated November 18, 1988,  between ALABAMA
               and AEC. See Exhibit 10(a)43 herein.


                                      E-15






        (b)15 -Operating  Agreement  for Joint  Ownership  Interest in the
               James H. Miller,  Jr. Steam Electric  Generating  Plant Units One
               and Two dated  November  18, 1988,  between  ALABAMA and AEC. See
               Exhibit 10(a)44 herein.

        (b)16 -Form of commitment agreement,  Amendment No. 1 and Amendment
               No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN,  ALABAMA, GEORGIA and MISSISSIPPI
               revolving credits. See Exhibit 10(a)46 herein.

        (b)17 -Long Term  Transmission  Service  Agreement  between Entergy
               Power, Inc. and ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)53
               herein.

        (b)18 -Operating  Agreement for the Joseph M. Farley  Nuclear Plant
               between  ALABAMA and  Southern  Nuclear  dated as of December 23,
               1991. See Exhibit 10(a)58 herein.

        (b)19 -The Southern Company Productivity  Improvement Plan, Amended
               and  Restated  effective  January 1, 1995.  See  Exhibit  10(a)61
               herein.

        (b)20 -The  Southern  Company  Executive  Productivity  Improvement
               Plan, effective January 1, 1995. See Exhibit 10(a)62 herein.

        (b)21 -The Southern  Company  Employee  Savings  Plan,  Amended and
               Restated  effective  July 3, 1995 and First  Amendment and Second
               Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

       *(b)22 -Third  Amendment  and Fourth  Amendment  to The Southern
               Company Employee Savings Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)64 herein.

        (b)23 -The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  Amended
               and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and First Amendment thereto.
               See Exhibit 10(a)65 herein.

       *(b)24 -Second  Amendment to The Southern Company Employee Stock
               Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)66 herein.

        (b)25 -Pension Plan For Employees of ALABAMA,  Amended and Restated
               effective as of January 1, 1989. See Exhibit 10(a)67 herein.

       *(b)26 -First Amendment, Second Amendment and Third Amendment to
               the Pension Plan For  Employees of ALABAMA.  See Exhibit  10(a)68
               herein.

       *(b)27 -The Southern Company  Performance Pay Plan,  Amended and
               Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

        (b)28 -Supplemental  Benefit Plan for ALABAMA.  See Exhibit 10(a)74
               herein.

        (b)29 -The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. See Exhibit
               10(a)79 herein.

        (b)30 -The Southern  Company  Outside  Directors  Pension Plan. See
               Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

        (b)31 -Outside  Directors  Stock  Plan  for  Subsidiaries  of  The
               Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)81
               herein.


                                      E-16






       *(b)32 -The  Southern  Company  Pension  Plan,  effective  as of
               January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)83 herein.

         GEORGIA

        (c)1  -Service  contracts  dated as of January 1, 1984 and Amendment
               No. 1 dated as of  September  6, 1985,  between SCS and  ALABAMA,
               GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SEGCO and  SOUTHERN.  See  Exhibit
               10(a)1 herein.

        (c)2  -Interchange  contract  dated  October  28,  1988,  effective
               January 1, 1989,  between ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,
               SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

        (c)3  -Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959, Amendment No. 1 dated
               as of October 27, 1982 and Amendment No. 2 dated November 4, 1993
               and effective June 1, 1994, among SEGCO, ALABAMA and GEORGIA. See
               Exhibit 10(a)7 herein.

        (c)4  -Joint Committee  Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, among
               GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)8 herein.

        (c)5  -Edwin  I.  Hatch  Nuclear  Plant   Purchase  and  Ownership
               Participation  Agreement  dated as of January  6,  1975,  between
               GEORGIA and OPC. See Exhibit 10(a)9 herein.

        (c)6  -Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating  Agreement dated as of
               January 6, 1975,  between  GEORGIA and OPC.  See Exhibit  10(a)10
               herein.

        (c)7  -Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System Agreement
               dated as of November  12,  1990,  between  GEORGIA  and OPC.  See
               Exhibit 10(a)11 herein.

        (c)8  -Plant  Hal  Wansley  Purchase  and  Ownership  Participation
               Agreement  dated as of March 26, 1976,  between  GEORGIA and OPC.
               See Exhibit 10(a)12 herein.

        (c)9  -Plant Hal Wansley  Operating  Agreement dated as of March 26,
               1976, between GEORGIA and OPC. See Exhibit 10(a)13 herein.

        (c)10 -Edwin  I.  Hatch  Nuclear  Plant  Purchase  and  Ownership
               Participation  Agreement  dated as of August  27,  1976,  between
               GEORGIA, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)14 herein.

        (c)11 -Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as of
               August 27, 1976,  between GEORGIA,  MEAG and Dalton.  See Exhibit
               10(a)15 herein.

        (c)12 -Alvin W. Vogtle  Nuclear  Units  Number One and Two Purchase
               and Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976
               and Amendment No. 1 dated as of January 18, 1977,  among GEORGIA,
               OPC, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)16 herein.


                                      E-17






        (c)13 -Alvin W. Vogtle  Nuclear  Units Number One and Two Operating
               Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976,  among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG
               and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein.

        (c)14 -Alvin W. Vogtle  Nuclear  Units Number One and Two Purchase,
               Amendment,  Assignment  and  Assumption  Agreement  dated  as  of
               November 16, 1983,  between GEORGIA and MEAG. See Exhibit 10(a)18
               herein.

        (c)15 -Plant  Hal  Wansley  Purchase  and  Ownership  Participation
               Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976,  between GEORGIA and MEAG.
               See Exhibit 10(a)19 herein.

        (c)16 -Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of August 27,
               1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG. See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein.

        (c)17 -Integrated  Transmission System Agreement dated as of August
               27, 1976, between GEORGIA and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)21 herein.

        (c)18 -Integrated  Transmission System Agreement dated as of August
               27, 1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG. See Exhibit 10(a)22 herein.

        (c)19 -Plant  Hal  Wansley  Purchase  and  Ownership  Participation
               Agreement dated as of April 19, 1977, between GEORGIA and Dalton.
               See Exhibit 10(a)23 herein.

        (c)20 -Plant Hal Wansley Operating  Agreement dated as of April 19,
               1977, between GEORGIA and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein.

        (c)21 -Plant  Robert W.  Scherer  Units Number One and Two Purchase
               and Ownership  Participation  Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980,
               Amendment  No. 1 dated as of December 30, 1985,  Amendment  No. 2
               dated as of July 1, 1986,  Amendment  No. 3 dated as of August 1,
               1988 and  Amendment  No. 4 dated as of December 31,  1990,  among
               GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)25 herein.

        (c)22 -Plant Robert W. Scherer  Units Number One and Two  Operating
               Agreement  dated as of May 15, 1980,  Amendment No. 1 dated as of
               December 3, 1985 and  Amendment  No. 2 dated as of  December  31,
               1990,  among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  See Exhibit 10(a)26
               herein.

        (c)23 -Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase,  Sale and Option Agreement
               dated as of May 15, 1980,  between  GEORGIA and MEAG. See Exhibit
               10(a)27 herein.

        (c)24 -Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as
               of May 16, 1980,  between GEORGIA and Dalton. See Exhibit 10(a)28
               herein.

        (c)25 -Plant  Robert W.  Scherer  Unit Number  Three  Purchase  and
               Ownership  Participation  Agreement  dated as of  March 1,  1984,
               Amendment  No. 1 dated as of July 1,  1986  and  Amendment  No. 2
               dated as of August 1, 1988, between GEORGIA and GULF. See Exhibit
               10(a)29 herein.

        (c)26 -Plant  Robert  W.  Scherer  Unit  Number  Three  Operating
               Agreement  dated as of March 1, 1984,  between  GEORGIA and GULF.
               See Exhibit 10(a)30 herein.


                                      E-18






        (c)27 -Plant  Robert W.  Scherer Unit No. Four Amended and Restated
               Purchase  and  Ownership  Participation  Agreement  by and  among
               GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA dated as of December 31, 1990 and Amendment
               No. 1 dated as of June 15, 1994. See Exhibit 10(a)31 herein.

        (c)28 -Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Operating Agreement by
               and among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA dated as of December 31, 1990 and
               Amendment  No. 1 dated as of June 15, 1994.  See Exhibit  10(a)32
               herein.

        (c)29 -Amended  and  Restated  Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement  dated
               February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit
               10(a)33 herein.

        (c)30 -Amended and Restated  Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated May
               19, 1982,  Amendment  No. 1, dated August 30, 1984 and  Amendment
               No. 2 dated October 30, 1987,  between JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,
               GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)34 herein.

        (c)31 -Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988,  between FPC
               and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS. See
               Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

        (c)32 -Amended  Unit Power  Sales  Agreement  dated July 20,  1988,
               between FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH
               and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

        (c)33 -Amended  Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated August 17, 1988,
               between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

        (c)34 -Unit Power Sales Agreement  dated December 8, 1990,  between
               Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

        (c)35 -Power  Purchase  Agreement  dated  as of  December  3,  1993
               between GEORGIA and FPC. See Exhibit 10(a)57 herein.

        (c)36 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

        (c)37 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

        (c)38 -Rocky  Mountain  Pumped  Storage   Hydroelectric   Project
               Ownership   Participation  Agreement  dated  November  18,  1988,
               between OPC and GEORGIA. See Exhibit 10(a)41 herein.


                                      E-19






        (c)39 -Rocky  Mountain  Pumped  Storage   Hydroelectric   Project
               Operating  Agreement  dated  November 18,  1988,  between OPC and
               GEORGIA. See Exhibit 10(a)42 herein.

        (c)40 -Form of commitment agreement,  Amendment No. 1 and Amendment
               No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN,  ALABAMA, GEORGIA and MISSISSIPPI
               revolving credits. See Exhibit 10(a)46 herein.

        (c)41 -Block Power Sale Agreement  between GEORGIA and OPC dated as
               of November 12, 1990. See Exhibit 10(a)47 herein.

        (c)42 -Coordination  Services  Agreement  between  GEORGIA and OPC
               dated as of November 12, 1990. See Exhibit 10(a)48 herein.

        (c)43 -Amended and Restated  Nuclear  Managing Board  Agreement for
               Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG and Dalton
               dated as of July 1, 1993. See Exhibit 10(a)49 herein.

        (c)44 -Integrated  Transmission  System  Agreement,  Power Sale and
               Coordination  Umbrella Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC dated as
               of November 12, 1990. See Exhibit 10(a)50 herein.

        (c)45 -Revised  and  Restated   Integrated   Transmission  System
               Agreement  between  GEORGIA  and Dalton  dated as of  December 7,
               1990. See Exhibit 10(a)51 herein.

        (c)46 -Revised  and  Restated   Integrated   Transmission  System
               Agreement  between GEORGIA and MEAG dated as of December 7, 1990.
               See Exhibit 10(a)52 herein.

        (c)47 -Plant Scherer  Managing Board Agreement dated as of December
               31, 1990 among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG,  Dalton,  GULF, FP&L and JEA.
               See Exhibit 10(a)54 herein.

        (c)48 -Plant  McIntosh  Combustion  Turbine  Purchase and Ownership
               Participation  Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as of
               December 15, 1992. See Exhibit 10(a)55 herein.

        (c)49 -Plant  McIntosh  Combustion  Turbine  Operating  Agreement
               between  GEORGIA and SAVANNAH  dated as of December 15, 1992. See
               Exhibit 10(a)56 herein.

        (c)50 -Certificate of Limited Partnership of Georgia Power Capital.
               (Designated in Certificate of Notification,  File No. 70-8461, as
               Exhibit B.)

        (c)51 -Amended and  Restated  Agreement of Limited  Partnership  of
               Georgia Power Capital,  dated as of December 1, 1994. (Designated
               in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit C.)

        (c)52 -Action of General Partner of Georgia Power Capital  creating
               the Series A Preferred Securities.  (Designated in Certificate of
               Notification, File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit D.)


                                      E-20






        (c)53 -Guarantee Agreement of GEORGIA dated as of December 1, 1994,
               for the benefit of the holders  from time to time of the Series A
               Preferred Securities. (Designated in Certificate of Notification,
               File No. 70-8461, as Exhibit G.)

        (c)54 -Nuclear  Services  Agreement  between  Southern  Nuclear and
               GEORGIA dated as of October 31, 1991. See Exhibit 10(a)59 herein.

        (c)55 -Nuclear  Managing Board Agreement  among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG
               and Dalton  dated as of November 12,  1990.  See Exhibit  10(a)60
               herein.

        (c)56 -The Southern Company Productivity  Improvement Plan, Amended
               and  Restated  effective  January 1, 1995.  See  Exhibit  10(a)61
               herein.

        (c)57 -The  Southern  Company  Executive  Productivity  Improvement
               Plan, effective January 1, 1995. See Exhibit 10(a)62 herein.

        (c)58 -The Southern  Company  Employee  Savings  Plan,  Amended and
               Restated  effective  July 3, 1995 and First  Amendment and Second
               Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

       *(c)59 -Third  Amendment  and Fourth  Amendment  to The Southern
               Company Employee Savings Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)64 herein.

        (c)60 -The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  Amended
               and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and First Amendment thereto.
               See Exhibit 10(a)65 herein.

       *(c)61 -Second  Amendment to The Southern Company Employee Stock
               Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)66 herein.

        (c)62 -Pension Plan For Employees of GEORGIA,  Amended and Restated
               effective as of January 1, 1989. See Exhibit 10(a)69 herein.

       *(c)63 -First Amendment, Second Amendment and Third Amendment to
               the Pension Plan For  Employees of GEORGIA.  See Exhibit  10(a)70
               herein.

       *(c)64 -The Southern Company  Performance Pay Plan,  Amended and
               Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

        (c)65 -Supplemental  Benefit Plan for GEORGIA.  See Exhibit 10(a)75
               herein.

        (c)66 -The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. See Exhibit
               10(a)79 herein.

        (c)67 -The Southern  Company  Outside  Directors  Pension Plan. See
               Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

        (c)68 -Outside  Directors  Stock  Plan  for  Subsidiaries  of  The
               Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)81
               herein.

       *(c)69 -The  Southern  Company  Pension  Plan,  effective  as of
               January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)83 herein.


                                      E-21






         GULF

        (d)1  -Service  contracts  dated as of January 1, 1984 and Amendment
               No. 1 dated as of  September  6, 1985,  between SCS and  ALABAMA,
               GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SEGCO and  SOUTHERN.  See  Exhibit
               10(a)1 herein.

        (d)2  -Interchange  contract  dated  October  28,  1988,  effective
               January 1, 1989,  between ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,
               SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

        (d)3  -Plant  Robert W.  Scherer  Unit  Number  Three  Purchase  and
               Ownership  Participation  Agreement  dated as of  March 1,  1984,
               Amendment  No. 1 dated as of July 1,  1986  and  Amendment  No. 2
               dated as of August 1, 1988, between GEORGIA and GULF. See Exhibit
               10(a)29 herein.

        (d)4  -Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Operating Agreement
               dated as of March 1, 1984,  between GEORGIA and GULF. See Exhibit
               10(a)30 herein.

        (d)5  -Plant Scherer  Managing Board  Agreement dated as of December
               31, 1990 among GEORGIA,  OPC, MEAG,  Dalton,  GULF, FP&L and JEA.
               See Exhibit 10(a)54 herein.

        (d)6  -Amended  and  Restated  Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement  dated
               February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit
               10(a)33 herein.

        (d)7  -Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May 19,
               1982,  Amendment  No. 1 dated August 30, 1984 and Amendment No. 2
               dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,
               MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)34 herein.

        (d)8  -Unit Power Sales Agreement  dated July 19, 1988,  between FPC
               and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS. See
               Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

        (d)9  -Amended  Unit Power  Sales  Agreement  dated  July 20,  1988,
               between FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH
               and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

        (d)10 -Amended  Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated August 17, 1988,
               between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

        (d)11 -Agreement  between GULF and AEC,  effective  August 1, 1985.
               (Designated  in GULF's Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
               1985, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 10(g).)



                                      E-22





        (d)12 -Unit Power Sales Agreement  dated December 8, 1990,  between
               Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

        (d)13 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

        (d)14 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

        (d)15 -The Southern Company Productivity  Improvement Plan, Amended
               and  Restated  effective  January 1, 1995.  See  Exhibit  10(a)61
               herein.

        (d)16 -The  Southern  Company  Executive  Productivity  Improvement
               Plan, effective January 1, 1995. See Exhibit 10(a)62 herein.

        (d)17 -The Southern  Company  Employee  Savings  Plan,  Amended and
               Restated  effective  July 3, 1995 and First  Amendment and Second
               Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

       *(d)18 -Third  Amendment  and Fourth  Amendment  to The Southern
               Company Employee Savings Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)64 herein.

        (d)19 -The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  Amended
               and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and First Amendment thereto.
               See Exhibit 10(a)65 herein.

       *(d)20 -Second  Amendment to The Southern Company Employee Stock
               Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)66 herein.

        (d)21 -Pension  Plan For  Employees  of GULF,  Amended and Restated
               effective as of January 1, 1989.  (Designated in GULF's Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit
               10(d)18.)

       *(d)22 -First Amendment, Second Amendment and Third Amendment to
               the Pension Plan For Employees of GULF.

       *(d)23 -The Southern Company  Performance Pay Plan,  Amended and
               Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

        (d)24 -Supplemental  Benefit Plan for GULF.  (Designated in GULF's
               Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File No. 0-2429,
               as Exhibit 10(d)22.)

        (d)25 -The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. See Exhibit
               10(a)79 herein.

        (d)26 -The Southern  Company  Outside  Directors  Pension Plan. See
               Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.


                                      E-23






        (d)27 -Outside  Directors  Stock  Plan  for  Subsidiaries  of  The
               Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)81
               herein.

       *(d)28 -The  Southern  Company  Pension  Plan,  effective  as of
               January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)83 herein.

         MISSISSIPPI

        (e)1  -Service  contracts  dated as of January 1, 1984 and Amendment
               No. 1 dated September 6, 1985, between SCS and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,
               GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN. See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein.

        (e)2  -Interchange  contract  dated  October  28,  1988,  effective
               January 1, 1989,  between ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,
               SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

        (e)3  -Amended  and  Restated  Unit  Power  Sales  Agreement  dated
               February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18, 1982, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit
               10(a)33 herein.

        (e)4  -Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May 19,
               1982,  Amendment No. 1 dated August 30, 1984, and Amendment No. 2
               dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,
               MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)34 herein.

        (e)5  -Unit Power Sales Agreement  dated July 19, 1988,  between FPC
               and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS. See
               Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

        (e)6  -Amended  Unit Power  Sales  Agreement  dated  July 20,  1988,
               between FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH
               and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

        (e)7  -Amended  Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated  August 17, 1988,
               between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

        (e)8  -Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated December 8, 1990,  between
               Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

        (e)9  -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,  between
               JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

        (e)10 -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, between
               FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.


                                      E-24






        (e)11 -Transmission  Facilities  Agreement dated February 25, 1982,
               Amendment  No. 1 dated  May 12,  1982 and  Amendment  No. 2 dated
               December  6,  1983,  between  Gulf  States and  MISSISSIPPI.  See
               Exhibit 10(a)45 herein.

        (e)12 -Form of commitment agreement,  Amendment No. 1 and Amendment
               No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN,  ALABAMA, GEORGIA and MISSISSIPPI
               revolving credits. See Exhibit 10(a)46 herein.

        (e)13 -Long Term  Transmission  Service  Agreement  between Entergy
               Power, Inc. and ALABAMA  MISSISSIPPI and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)53
               herein.

        (e)14 -The Southern Company Productivity  Improvement Plan, Amended
               and  Restated  effective  January 1, 1995.  See  Exhibit  10(a)61
               herein.

        (e)15 -The  Southern  Company  Executive  Productivity  Improvement
               Plan, effective January 1, 1995. See Exhibit 10(a)62 herein.

        (e)16 -The Southern  Company  Employee  Savings  Plan,  Amended and
               Restated  effective  July 3, 1995 and First  Amendment and Second
               Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

       *(e)17 -Third  Amendment  and Fourth  Amendment  to The Southern
               Company Employee Savings Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)64 herein.

        (e)18 -The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  Amended
               and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and First Amendment thereto.
               See Exhibit 10(a)65 herein.

       *(e)19 -Second  Amendment to The Southern Company Employee Stock
               Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)66 herein.

        (e)20 -Pension  Plan For  Employees  of  MISSISSIPPI,  Amended  and
               Restated  effective  as  of  January  1,  1989.   (Designated  in
               MISSISSIPPI's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December  31,  1994,
               File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(e)18.)

       *(e)21 -First Amendment, Second Amendment and Third Amendment to
               the Pension Plan For Employees of MISSISSIPPI.

       *(e)22 -The Southern Company  Performance Pay Plan,  Amended and
               Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

       *(e)23 -Supplemental  Benefit Plan for MISSISSIPPI,  Amended and
               Restated effective as of January 1, 1996.

        (e)24 -The Southern Company Deferred Compensation Plan. See Exhibit
               10(a)79 herein.

        (e)25 -The Southern  Company  Outside  Directors  Pension Plan. See
               Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

        (e)26 -Outside  Directors  Stock  Plan  for  Subsidiaries  of  The
               Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)81
               herein.


                                      E-25






       *(e)27 -The  Southern  Company  Pension  Plan,  effective  as of
               January 1, 1997. See Exhibit 10(a)83 herein.

         SAVANNAH

        (f)1  -Service  contract dated as of March 3, 1988,  between SCS and
               SAVANNAH. See Exhibit 10(a)3 herein.

        (f)2  -Interchange  contract  dated  October  28,  1988,  effective
               January 1, 1989,  between ALABAMA,  GEORGIA,  GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,
               SAVANNAH and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

        (f)3  -Unit Power Sales Agreement  dated July 19, 1988,  between FPC
               and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS. See
               Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

        (f)4  -Amended  Unit Power  Sales  Agreement  dated  July 20,  1988,
               between FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH
               and SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

        (f)5  -Amended  Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated  August 17, 1988,
               between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

        (f)6  -Unit Power Sales  Agreement  dated December 8, 1990,  between
               Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and
               SCS. See Exhibit 10(a)38 herein.

        (f)7  -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,  between
               JEA and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

        (f)8  -Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990,  between
               FP&L and ALABAMA,  GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,  SAVANNAH and SCS.
               See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

        (f)9  -Plant  McIntosh  Combustion  Turbine  Purchase and  Ownership
               Participation  Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as of
               December 15, 1992. See Exhibit 10(a)55 herein.

        (f)10 -Plant  McIntosh  Combustion  Turbine  Operating  Agreement
               between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated December 15, 1992. See Exhibit
               10(a)56 herein.

        (f)11 -The Southern Company Productivity  Improvement Plan, Amended
               and  Restated  effective  January 1, 1995.  See  Exhibit  10(a)61
               herein.



                                      E-26





        (f)12 -The  Southern  Company  Executive  Productivity  Improvement
               Plan, effective January 1, 1995. See Exhibit 10(a)62 herein.

        (f)13 -The Southern  Company  Employee  Savings  Plan,  Amended and
               Restated  effective  July 3, 1995 and First  Amendment and Second
               Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)63 herein.

       *(f)14 -Third  Amendment  and Fourth  Amendment  to The Southern
               Company Employee Savings Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)64 herein.

        (f)15 -The Southern Company Employee Stock Ownership Plan,  Amended
               and Restated effective April 1, 1995 and First Amendment thereto.
               See Exhibit 10(a)65 herein.

       *(f)16 -Second  Amendment to The Southern Company Employee Stock
               Ownership Plan. See Exhibit 10(a)66 herein.

        (f)17 -Employees' Retirement Plan of SAVANNAH, Amended and Restated
               effective   January   1,  1989  and  First   Amendment   thereto.
               (Designated  in SAVANNAH's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1994,  File No. 1-5072,  as Exhibit 10(f)15 and in SAVANNAH's
               Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File No. 1-5072,
               as Exhibit 10(f)16.)

       *(f)18 -Second  Amendment and Third  Amendment to the Employees'
               Retirement Plan of SAVANNAH.

        (f)19 -Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan of SAVANNAH,  Amended
               and Restated effective January 1, 1996. (Designated in SAVANNAH's
               Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,  File No. 1-5072,
               as Exhibit 10(f)17.)

       *(f)20 -First Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Retirement
               Plan of SAVANNAH.

        (f)21 -Deferred Compensation Plan for Key Employees of SAVANNAH and
               First Amendment thereto.  (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for
               the year ended  December 31, 1994,  File No.  1-5072,  as Exhibit
               10(f)17 and in SAVANNAH's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December
               31, 1995, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(f)19.)

       *(f)22 -Second Amendment to the Deferred  Compensation  Plan for
               Key Employees of SAVANNAH.

       *(f)23 -The Southern Company  Performance Pay Plan,  Amended and
               Restated effective January 1, 1996. See Exhibit 10(a)73 herein.

        (f)24 -The Southern  Company  Outside  Directors  Pension Plan. See
               Exhibit 10(a)78 herein.

        (f)25 -Deferred  Compensation  Plan for  Directors  of SAVANNAH and
               First Amendment,  Second  Amendment and Third Amendment  thereto.
               (Designated  in SAVANNAH's  Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1994, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10(f)20.)


                                      E-27





       *(f)26 -Fourth Amendment to the Deferred  Compensation  Plan for
               Directors of SAVANNAH.

        (f)27 -Outside  Directors  Stock  Plan  for  Subsidiaries  of  The
               Southern Company and First Amendment thereto. See Exhibit 10(a)81
               herein.

(21)     *Subsidiaries of Registrants - Contained herein at page IV-5.

(23)     Consents of Experts and Counsel

         SOUTHERN

       *(a)   -The consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP is contained  herein at
               page IV-6.

         ALABAMA

       *(b)   -The consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP is contained  herein at
               page IV-7.

         GEORGIA

       *(c)   -The consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP is contained  herein at
               page IV-8.

         GULF

       *(d)   -The consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP is contained  herein at
               page IV-9.

         MISSISSIPPI

       *(e)   -The consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP is contained  herein at
               page IV-10.

         SAVANNAH

       *(f)   -The consent of Arthur  Andersen LLP is contained  herein at
               page IV-11.

(24)     Powers of Attorney and Resolutions

         SOUTHERN

       *(a)   -Power of Attorney and resolution.

         ALABAMA

       *(b)   -Power of Attorney and resolution.

         GEORGIA

       *(c)   -Power of Attorney and resolution.


                                      E-28





         GULF

       *(d)   -Power of Attorney and resolution.

         MISSISSIPPI

       *(e)   -Power of Attorney and resolution.

         SAVANNAH

       *(f)   -Power of Attorney and resolution.


(27)     Financial Data Schedule

         SOUTHERN

        (a)   -Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated February
               12, 1997, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 27.)

         ALABAMA

        (b)   -Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated February
               12, 1997, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibit 27.)

         GEORGIA

        (c)   -Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated February
               12, 1997, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 27.)

         GULF

        (d)   -Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated February
               12, 1997, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 27.)

         MISSISSIPPI

        (e)   -Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated February
               12, 1997, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 27.)

         SAVANNAH

        (f)   -Financial Data Schedule. (Designated in Form 8-K dated February
               12, 1997, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 27.)


                           
                                      E-29





