
10-K
SOUTHERN COMPANY FORM 10-K





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                             ----------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

               (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                                       OR
             ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                     FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM      TO

                     --------------------------------------



          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

Each of the following securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act are registered on the New York Stock Exchange.


                     ------------------------------------



FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS
10 5/8%       Series due 2017
9 1/4%        Series due 2021

                     ------------------------------------



          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:



CLASS A PREFERRED, CUMULATIVE, $100,000 STATED CAPITAL
Auction (1993 Series)



CLASS A PREFERRED, CUMULATIVE, $100 STATED CAPITAL
Auction (1988 Series)

                 --------------------------------------------



                 --------------------------------------------

                                          

CLASS A PREFERRED, CUMULATIVE, $10 PAR, $25 STATED CAPITAL
7.00% Series               7.30% Series                    6.72% Series
Adjustable Rate (1993 Series)

                 --------------------------------------------



        Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrants were required to file such reports), and (2) have been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X   No
                                                     ---     ---

        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrants' knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. (  )

        Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of The
Southern Company at February 28, 1994: $13.4 billion.  Each of such other
registrants are wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Southern Company and have no
voting stock other than their common stock.  A description of registrants'
common stock follows:



        Documents incorporated by reference: specified portions of The Southern
Company's Proxy Statement relating to the 1994 Annual Meeting of Stockholders
are incorporated by reference into PART III.



        This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by The Southern Company,
Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi
Power Company and Savannah Electric and Power Company.  Information contained
herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own
behalf. Each company makes no representation as to information relating to the
other companies.






                                       i

                                 DEFINITIONS

             When used in Items 1 through 5 and Items 10 through 14, the
             following terms will have the meanings indicated.  Other defined
             terms specific only to Item 11 are found on page III-13.






                                       ii

                                     PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

   SOUTHERN was incorporated under the laws of Delaware on November 9, 1945.
SOUTHERN is domesticated under the laws of Georgia and is qualified to do
business as a foreign corporation under the laws of Alabama.  SOUTHERN owns all
the outstanding common stock of ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and
SAVANNAH, each of which is an operating public utility company.  ALABAMA and
GEORGIA each own 50% of the outstanding common stock of SEGCO.  The operating
affiliates supply electric service in the states of Alabama, Georgia, Florida,
Mississippi and Georgia, respectively, and SEGCO owns generating units at a
large electric generating station which supplies power to ALABAMA and GEORGIA.
More particular information relating to each of the operating affiliates is as
follows:

   ALABAMA is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alabama on
   November 10, 1927, by the consolidation of a predecessor Alabama Power
   Company, Gulf Electric Company and Houston Power Company.  The predecessor
   Alabama Power Company had had a continuous existence since its incorporation
   in 1906.

   GEORGIA was incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia on June 26,
   1930, and admitted to do business in Alabama on September 15, 1948.

   GULF is a corporation which was organized under the laws of the State of
   Maine on November 2, 1925, and admitted to do business in Florida on January
   15, 1926, in Mississippi on October 25, 1976 and in Georgia on November 20,
   1984.

   MISSISSIPPI was incorporated under the laws of the State of Mississippi on
   July 12, 1972, was admitted to do business in Alabama on November 28, 1972,
   and effective December 21, 1972, by the merger into it of the predecessor
   Mississippi Power Company, succeeded to the business and properties of the
   latter company.  The predecessor Mississippi Power Company was incorporated
   under the laws of the State of Maine on November 24, 1924, and was admitted
   to do business in Mississippi on December 23, 1924, and in Alabama on
   December 7, 1962.

   SAVANNAH is a corporation existing under the laws of Georgia; its charter
   was granted by the Secretary of State on August 5, 1921.

SOUTHERN also owns all the outstanding common stock of SEI, Southern
Nuclear, SCS (the system service company), and various other subsidiaries
related to foreign operations and domestic non-utility operations (see
Exhibit 21 herein).  At this time, the operations of the other subsidiaries
are not material.  SEI designs, builds, owns and operates power production
facilities and provides a broad range of technical services to industrial
companies and utilities in the United States and a number of international
markets.  A further description of SEI's business and organization follows
later in this section.  Southern Nuclear provides services to the Southern
electric system's nuclear plants.

SEGCO owns electric generating units with an aggregate capacity of 1,019,680
kilowatts at Plant Gaston on the Coosa River near Wilsonville, Alabama, and
ALABAMA and GEORGIA are each entitled to one-half of SEGCO's capacity and
energy.  ALABAMA acts as SEGCO's agent in the operation of SEGCO's units and
furnishes coal to SEGCO as fuel for its units.  SEGCO also owns three
230,000 volt transmission lines extending from Plant Gaston to the Georgia
state line at which point connection is made with the GEORGIA transmission
line system.

THE SOUTHERN SYSTEM

The transmission facilities of each of the operating affiliates and SEGCO are
connected to the respective company's own generating plants and other sources
of power and are interconnected with the transmission facilities of the other
operating affiliates and SEGCO by means of heavy-duty high voltage lines.  (In
the case of GEORGIA's integrated transmission system, see Item 1 - BUSINESS -
"Territory Served" herein.)

   Operating contracts covering arrangements in effect with principal
neighboring utility systems provide for capacity exchanges, capacity purchases
and sales, transfers of economy energy and other similar transactions.
Additionally, the operating affiliates have entered into voluntary reliability
agreements with the subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation, Florida Electric Power
Coordinating Group and TVA and with Carolina Power & Light Company, Duke Power
Company, South Carolina Electric & Gas Company and Virginia Electric




                                     I-1



and Power Company, each of which provides for the establishment and periodic
review of principles and procedures for planning and operation of generation
and transmission facilities, maintenance schedules, load retention programs,
emergency operations, and other matters affecting the reliability of bulk power
supply.  The operating affiliates have joined with other utilities in the
Southeast (including those referred to above) to form the SERC to augment
further the reliability and adequacy of bulk power supply.  Through the SERC,
the operating affiliates are represented on the National Electric Reliability
Council.

   An intra-system interchange agreement provides for coordinating operations
of the power producing facilities of the operating affiliates and SEGCO and the
capacities available to such companies from non-affiliated sources and for the
pooling of surplus energy available for interchange.  Coordinated operation of
the entire interconnected system is conducted through a central power supply
coordination office maintained by SCS.  The available sources of energy are
allocated to the operating affiliates to provide the most economical sources of
power consistent with good operation.  The resulting benefits and savings are
apportioned among the operating affiliates.

   SCS has contracted with each operating affiliate, SEI, various of the other
subsidiaries, Southern Nuclear and SEGCO to furnish, at cost and upon request,
the following services:  general executive and advisory services, power pool
operations, general engineering, design engineering, purchasing, accounting and
statistical, finance and treasury, taxes, insurance and pensions, corporate,
rates, budgeting, public relations, employee relations, systems and procedures
and other services with respect to business and operations.  SOUTHERN also has
a contract with SCS for certain of these specialized services.

   Southern Nuclear has contracted with ALABAMA to operate its Farley Nuclear
Plant, as authorized by amendments to the plant operating licenses.  Southern
Nuclear also has a contract to provide GEORGIA with technical and other
services to support GEORGIA's operation of plants Hatch and Vogtle.
Applications are now pending before the NRC for amendments to the Hatch and
Vogtle  operating licenses which would authorize Southern Nuclear to become the
operator.  See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Regulation - Atomic Energy Act of 1954"
herein.

NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

SOUTHERN continues to consider new business opportunities, particularly those
which allow use of the expertise and resources developed through its regulated
utility experience.  These endeavors began in 1981 and are conducted through
SEI and other existing subsidiaries.

   SEI's primary business focus is international and domestic cogeneration, the
independent power market, and the privatization of generation facilities in the
international market.  SEI currently operates two domestic independent power
production projects totaling 225 megawatts and is one-third owner of one of
these (which produces 180 megawatts).  It has a contract to sell electric
energy to Virginia Electric and Power Company from a facility SEI is developing
(through subsidiaries) in King George, Virginia.  Upon completion, currently
planned for 1996, SEI will operate the 220 megawatt coal-fired plant and own
50% of the project.

   In April 1993, SOUTHERN completed the purchase of a 50% interest in
Freeport, an electric utility on the Island of Grand Bahama, for a purchase
price of $35.5 million.  Freeport has generating capacity of about 112
megawatts.  In August 1993, SOUTHERN completed the purchase of a 55% interest
in Alicura, an entity that owns the right to use the generation from a 1,000
megawatt hydroelectric generating facility in Argentina, for a net purchase
price of approximately $188 million.  In December 1993, SOUTHERN completed the
purchase of a 35% interest in Edelnor for the purchase price of $73 million. 
Edelnor is a utility located in Northern Chile that owns and operates a
transmission grid and a 96 megawatt generating facility and is building an
additional 150 megawatt facility.

   SEI has continued to render consulting services and market SOUTHERN system
expertise in the United States and throughout the world.  It contracts with
other public utilities, commercial concerns and government agencies for the
rendition of services and the licensing of intellectual property.  In addition,
SEI engages in energy management-related services and activities.

   These continuing efforts to invest in and develop new business opportunities
offer the potential of earning returns which may exceed those of rate-regulated
operations.  However, because of the absence of any assured return or rate of
return, they also involve a higher





                                  I-2



degree of risk.  SOUTHERN expects to make substantial investments over the
period 1994-1996 in these and other new businesses.

CERTAIN FACTORS AFFECTING THE INDUSTRY

The electric utility industry is expected to become increasingly competitive in
the future as a result of the enactment of the Energy Act (see each
registrant's "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Future Earnings Potential"
in Item 7 herein), deregulation, competing technologies and other factors.  In
recent years the electric utility industry in general has experienced problems
in a number of areas including the uncertain cost of capital needed for
construction programs, difficulty in obtaining sufficient return on invested
capital and in securing adequate rate increases when required, high costs and
other issues associated with compliance with environmental and nuclear
regulations, changes in regulatory climate, prudence audits and the effects of
inflation and other factors on the costs of operations and construction
expenditures.  The SOUTHERN system has been experiencing certain of these
problems in varying degrees and management is unable to predict the future
effect of these or other factors upon its operations and financial condition.

CONSTRUCTION PROGRAMS

The subsidiary companies of SOUTHERN are engaged in continuous construction
programs to accommodate existing and estimated future loads on their respective
systems.  Construction additions or acquisitions of property during 1994
through 1996 by the operating affiliates, SEGCO, SCS and Southern Nuclear are
estimated as follows: (in millions)




*Does not add due to changes made in subsidiaries' construction budget
subsequent to approval of SOUTHERN system construction budget.

   Reference is made to Note 4 to the financial statements of each registrant
in Item 8 herein for the amounts of AFUDC included in the above estimates.  The
construction estimates for the period 1994 through 1996 do not include amounts
which may be spent by SEI (or the subsidiary(s) created to effect such
project(s)) on future power production projects or the projects discussed
earlier under "New Business Development."  (See also Item 1 - BUSINESS -
"Financing Programs" herein.)





                                  I-3




Estimated construction costs in 1994 are expected to be apportioned
approximately as follows: (in millions)

  

*SCS and Southern Nuclear plan capital additions to general plant in 1994 of
$26 million and $1 million, respectively, while SEGCO plans capital additions
of $14 million to generating facilities.  Does not add due to changes made in
subsidiaries' construction budget subsequent to approval of SOUTHERN system
construction budget.

   The construction programs are subject to periodic review and revision, and
actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous
factors.  These factors include changes in business conditions; revised load
growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations; changes in existing
nuclear plants to meet new regulatory requirements; increasing cost of labor,
equipment and materials; cost of capital and SEI securing a contract(s) to buy
or build additional generating facilities.

   The operating affiliates do not have any baseload generating plants under
construction and current energy demand forecasts do not require any additional
baseload generating facilities before 2011.  However, within the service area,
the construction of combustion turbine peaking units with an aggregate capacity
of approximately 1,700 megawatts is planned to be completed by 1996.  In
addition, significant construction of transmission and distribution facilities
and upgrading of generating plants will be continuing.

   During 1991, the Georgia legislature passed legislation which requires
GEORGIA and SAVANNAH each to file an Integrated Resource Plan for approval by
the Georgia PSC.  Under the plan rules, the Georgia PSC must pre-certify the
construction of new power plants.  (See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Rate Matters -
Integrated Resource Planning" herein.)

   See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Regulation - Environmental Regulation" herein for
information with respect to certain existing and proposed environmental
requirements and Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein for
additional information concerning ALABAMA's and GEORGIA's joint ownership of
certain generating units and related facilities with certain non-affiliated
utilities.

ROCKY MOUNTAIN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT

For information regarding GEORGIA's Rocky Mountain Project, including a joint
ownership agreement with OPC and the uncertain recovery of GEORGIA's costs in
this project, reference is made to Note 4 to SOUTHERN's and to GEORGIA's
financial statements in Item 8 herein.

STOCKHOLDER SUIT

For information concerning a suit against certain current and former directors
and officers of SOUTHERN involving allegations related to Plant Vogtle, the
Rocky Mountain project and other matters, see Item 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
herein.





                                   I-4




FINANCING PROGRAMS

In early 1994, SOUTHERN sold  - through a public offering - common stock for
proceeds totaling approximately $120 million.  SOUTHERN may require additional
equity capital during the remainder of 1994.  The amount and timing of raising
additional equity capital in 1994, as well as subsequent years, will be
contingent on SOUTHERN's investment opportunities.  Equity capital can be
provided from any combination of public offerings, private placements, or its
various stock plans.  The operating affiliates' construction programs are
expected to be financed primarily from internal sources.  Short-term debt will
be utilized when necessary.  The operating affiliates may issue additional
long-term debt and preferred stock primarily for the purposes of debt
maturities and for redeeming higher-cost securities.

   In order to issue first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, each of the
operating affiliates must comply with earnings coverage requirements contained
in its respective mortgage and charter.  These provisions require, for the
issuance of additional first mortgage bonds, a minimum, before income tax,
earnings coverage of twice the pro forma annual interest charges on first
mortgage bonds and indebtedness secured by prior or equal ranking lien and, for
the issuance of additional preferred stock, a minimum, after income tax,
earnings coverage of one and one-half times pro forma annual interest charges
and preferred stock dividends, in each case for a period of twelve consecutive
calendar months within the fifteen calendar months immediately preceding the
proposed new issue.  On the basis of these requirements, the respective
mortgage and preferred stock coverages of the operating affiliates for the
twelve months ended December 31, 1993, are:




   The amounts of securities representing short-term unsecured indebtedness
allowable under the respective charters, and the maximum amounts of short-term
indebtedness authorized by the appropriate regulatory authorities, are shown in
the following table:

                              

Notes:

   (1)   No limitation.

   (2)   Under the provisions of the respective charters, GEORGIA's,
MISSISSIPPI's and SAVANNAH's preferred stockholders have approved increases in
the amounts of securities representing short-term unsecured indebtedness which
the companies may have outstanding until July 1 in 2003, 1999 and 1999,
respectively.  Such limitations were raised from 10% of secured indebtedness
and other capital to 20% thereof.  These approved increases are reflected in
the above table.  ALABAMA currently plans to seek approval of its preferred
stockholders to have the charter limitation on short-term indebtedness
increased above its current limitation and





                                      I-5



may seek that such increase be made on a permanent basis.

   (3)   ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SOUTHERN have
received SEC authorization to issue from time to time short-term and/or term
loan notes to banks and commercial paper to dealers in the amounts shown
through March 31, 1996.  Each of the operating affiliates (excluding
MISSISSIPPI) must also receive authorization from their respective state PSC to
issue short-term debt.  At December 31, 1993, the Alabama PSC authorization
limited ALABAMA's short-term debt to $450 million.

   Reference is made to Note 5, 5, 8, 5, 5 and 5 to the financial statements
for SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH, respectively,
in Item 8 herein for information regarding the registrants' credit
arrangements.



                                      I-6




FUEL SUPPLY

The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's supply of electricity is derived
predominantly from coal.  The sources of generation for the years 1991 through
1993 and the estimates for 1994 are shown below:

                                              Oil
                                              and
 ALABAMA           Coal   Nuclear    Hydro    Gas     Total
                   ----   -------    -----    ---     -----
          1991     68%      23%        9%     *%      100%
          1992     70       21         9      *       100
          1993     70       22         8      *       100
          1994     71       21         8      *       100

 GEORGIA
          1991     78       19         3      *       100
          1992     76       21         3      *       100
          1993     77       20         3      *       100
          1994     78       19         3      *       100

 GULF
          1991     100      **       **       *       100
          1992     100      **       **       *       100
          1993     99       **       **       1       100
          1994     100      **       **       *       100
                                               
 MISSISSIPPI
          1991     89       **       **      11       100
          1992     91       **       **       9       100
          1993     90       **       **      10       100
          1994     83       **       **      17       100
                                                 
 SAVANNAH                                        
          1991     91       **       **       9       100
          1992     81       **       **      19       100
          1993     83       **       **      17       100
          1994     96       **       **       4       100
                                                 
 SEGCO                                           
          1991     100      **       **       *       100
          1992     100      **       **       *       100
          1993     100      **       **       *       100
          1994     100      **       **       *       100
                                                 
 SOUTHERN                                        
   SYSTEM                                        
          1991     77       17        5       1       100
          1992     77       17        5       1       100
          1993     78       17        4       1       100
          1994     78       17        4       1       100
- -------------------------------------------------------------
 *Less than 0.5%
**Not applicable

   The average costs of fuel in cents per net kilowatt-hour generated are shown
below:
                                          
                                          Oil                 
                                          and         Weighted
ALABAMA            Coal      Nuclear      Gas         Average
                   ----      -------      ---         --------
          1991     2.06       0.57          *           1.69
          1992     1.99       0.44          *           1.64
          1993     2.11       0.51          *           1.73
                                            
GEORGIA
          1991     1.77       0.75          *           1.57
          1992     1.75       0.63          *           1.52
          1993     1.75       0.58          *           1.52

GULF
          1991     2.16         **          *           2.17
          1992     2.07         **          *           2.07
          1993     2.03         **       4.50           2.05

MISSISSIPPI
          1991     1.80         **       1.71           1.80
          1992     1.59         **       3.05           1.60
          1993     1.66         **       2.97           1.71

SAVANNAH
          1991     2.05         **       3.41           2.18
          1992     2.28         **       3.55           2.53
          1993     2.02         **       4.70           2.49

SEGCO
          1991     1.97         **          *           1.97
          1992     1.81         **          *           1.81
          1993     1.80         **          *           1.81

SOUTHERN
  SYSTEM
          1991     1.91         0.66     2.84           1.69
          1992     1.86         0.54     4.81           1.62
          1993     1.90         0.54     4.34           1.67
- ---------------------------------------------------------------
 * Not meaningful because of minimal generation from fuel source
** Not applicable

                                      I-7



   At March 4, 1994, the operating affiliates and SEGCO had stockpiles of coal
on hand at their respective coal-fired plants which represented an estimated
25-day recoverable supply, based on projected 1994 nameplate burn requirements.
It is estimated that approximately 53 million tons of coal will be consumed in
1994 by the operating affiliates and SEGCO (including those units GEORGIA owns
jointly with OPC, MEAG, Dalton, FP&L and JEA and the units ALABAMA owns jointly
with AEC).  The operating affiliates and SEGCO currently have 32 coal
contracts.  These contracts cover remaining terms of up to 16 years.
Approximately 30% of 1994 estimated coal requirements will be purchased in the
spot market.  Management has set a goal whereby the spot market should be
utilized, absent the transition from coal contract expirations, for 20 to 25%
of the SOUTHERN system's coal supply.  Additionally, it has been determined
that approximately 35 days of recoverable supply of coal is the appropriate
level for coal stockpiles.  During 1993, the operating affiliates and SEGCO's
average price of coal delivered was approximately $46 per ton.  The typical
sulfur content of coal purchased under contracts ranges from approximately 0.7%
to 3.0% sulfur by weight.  Fuel sulfur restrictions and other environmental
limitations have increased significantly and may increase further the
difficulty and cost of obtaining an adequate coal supply.  See Item 1 -
BUSINESS - "Regulation - Environmental Regulation" herein.

   Changes in fuel prices are generally reflected in fuel adjustment clauses
contained in rate schedules.  See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Rate Matters - Rate
Structure".

   ALABAMA owns coal lands and mineral rights in the Warrior Coal Field,
located northwest of Birmingham in the vicinity of its Gorgas Steam Plant.
SEGCO also owns coal reserves in the Warrior Coal Field and in the Cahaba Coal
Field, which is located southwest of Birmingham.  ALABAMA has an agreement with
a non-affiliated industrial and mining firm to mine coal from ALABAMA's
reserves, as well as its own reserves, for supply to ALABAMA's generating
units.

   Should the arrangement between the mining firm and ALABAMA be terminated
pursuant to its provisions, ALABAMA would be obligated to pay the mining firm's
net investment in the mine and take over ownership of equipment and facilities.
On December 31, 1993, the mining firm's investment was approximately $13
million.

   The operating affiliates have renegotiated, bought out or otherwise
terminated various coal supply contracts.  For more information on certain of
these transactions see Note 5 to the financial statements of SOUTHERN, GULF and
MISSISSIPPI in Item 8 herein.

   Reference is made to Item 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS herein for a discussion of
a complaint filed against GULF and SCS regarding the delivery of coal.

   In 1974, MISSISSIPPI filed a civil suit against a supplier of natural gas
for violation of the antitrust laws, breach of contract and tortious
interference with its contracts on account of MISSISSIPPI's failure to receive
its full contracted quantities of natural gas.  The aggregate amount of damages
sought is approximately $134 million. An internal review of this matter has
determined that the possibility of any recovery is remote.

   ALABAMA and GEORGIA have contracts with the United States Enrichment
Corporation for nuclear fuel enrichment services on a total system basis.
These contracts provide that any or all enrichment needs in any fiscal year may
be terminated at no charge upon a 10- year advance notice.  To provide
contracting flexibility, all enrichment needs during the period October 1, 1999
- - September 30, 2002 were terminated prior to April 1, 1992.  Except for
enrichment requirements during this termination period, all enrichment services
needs of Plants Farley, Hatch and Vogtle until the years cited above may be
accommodated by such contracts.

   ALABAMA and GEORGIA have contracts with the DOE that provide for the
permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel.  The service to be provided by the
DOE is scheduled to begin in 1998; however, the actual year this service will
begin is uncertain.  Sufficient storage capacity currently is available to
permit operation into 2003 at Plant Hatch, into 2009 at Plant Vogtle, and into
2012 and 2014 at Plant Farley units 1 and 2, respectively.  Management believes
that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel processing exists to preclude the
impairment of normal operations of the SOUTHERN system's nuclear generating
units.



                                      I-8
                



   The Energy Act imposed upon utilities with nuclear plants, including ALABAMA
and GEORGIA, obligations for the decontamination and decommissioning of federal
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities.  See Note 1 to SOUTHERN's, ALABAMA's and
GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein.

TERRITORY SERVED

The territory in which the operating affiliates provide electric service
comprises most of the states of Alabama and Georgia together with the
northwestern portion of Florida and southeastern Mississippi.  In this
territory there are non-affiliated electric distribution systems which obtain
some or all of their power requirements either directly or indirectly from the
operating affiliates.  The territory has an area of approximately 120,000
square miles and an estimated population of approximately 11 million.

   ALABAMA is engaged, within the State of Alabama, in the generation and
purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such electricity at
retail in over 1,000 communities (including Anniston, Birmingham, Gadsden,
Mobile, Montgomery and Tuscaloosa), and at wholesale to 15 municipally-owned
electric distribution systems, 11 of which are served indirectly through sales
to AMEA, and two rural distributing cooperative associations.  ALABAMA also
supplies steam service in downtown Birmingham.  ALABAMA owns coal reserves near
its steam-electric generating plant at Gorgas and uses the output of coal from
these reserves in its generating plants.  ALABAMA also sells, and cooperates
with dealers in promoting the sale of, electric appliances.

   GEORGIA is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the
distribution and sale of such electricity within the State of Georgia at retail
in over 600 communities (including Athens, Atlanta, Augusta, Columbus, Macon,
Rome and Valdosta), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale currently to 39
electric cooperative associations through OPC, a corporate cooperative of
electric membership cooperatives in Georgia, and to 50 municipalities, 47 of
which are served through MEAG, a public corporation and an instrumentality of
the State of Georgia.

   GULF is engaged, within the northwestern portion of Florida, in the
generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such
electricity at retail in 71 communities (including Pensacola, Panama City and
Fort Walton Beach), as well as in rural areas, and at wholesale to a
non-affiliated utility and a municipality.  GULF also sells electric
appliances.

   MISSISSIPPI is engaged in the generation and purchase of electricity and the
distribution and sale of such energy within the 23 counties of southeastern
Mississippi, at retail in 123 communities (including Biloxi, Gulfport,
Hattiesburg, Laurel, Meridian and Pascagoula), as well as in rural areas, and
at wholesale to one municipality and four rural electric cooperative
associations.

   SAVANNAH is engaged, within a five-county area in eastern Georgia, in the
generation and purchase of electricity and the distribution and sale of such
electricity at retail and, as a member of the SOUTHERN system power pool, the
transmission and sale of wholesale energy.




                                      I-9



   The sources of revenues for the SOUTHERN system and each of SOUTHERN's
operating affiliates are shown in Item 6 herein.  For the year ended December
31, 1993, the registrants derived their respective industrial revenues as shown
in the following table.

  

* Less than 0.5%
**Other major sources (more than 5%) of industrial revenues were: ALABAMA, coal
mining (5%); GULF, oil and gas extraction (8%); and MISSISSIPPI, petroleum
refining (21%) and electric machinery (5%).

   A portion of the area served by SOUTHERN's operating affiliates adjoins
the area served by TVA and its municipal and cooperative distributors.  An Act
of Congress limits the distribution of TVA power, unless otherwise authorized
by Congress, to specified areas or customers which generally were those served
on July 1, 1957.

   The REA has authority to make loans to cooperative associations or
corporations to enable them to provide electric service to customers in rural
sections of the country.  There are 70 electric cooperative organizations
operating in the territory in which the operating affiliates provide electric
service at retail or wholesale.

   One of these, AEC, is a generating and transmitting cooperative selling
power to several distributing cooperatives, municipal systems and other
customers in south Alabama and northwest Florida.  AEC owns generating units
with approximately 828 megawatts of nameplate capacity, including an undivided
ownership interest in ALABAMA's Plant Miller Units 1 and 2, and associated
transmission lines.  AEC's facilities were financed with REA loans secured by
long-term contracts requiring distributing cooperatives to take their
requirements from AEC to the extent such energy is available.  Two of the 14
distributing cooperatives operating in ALABAMA's service territory obtain a
portion of their power requirements directly  from ALABAMA.

   Four electric cooperative associations, financed by the REA, operate
within GULF's service area.  These cooperatives purchase their full
requirements from AEC and SEPA.  A non-affiliated utility also operates within
GULF's service area and purchases a portion of its requirements from GULF.

   ALABAMA and GULF have entered into separate agreements with AEC
involving interconnection between the respective systems and, in the case of
ALABAMA, the delivery of capacity and energy from AEC to certain distributing
cooperatives.   The rates for the various services provided by ALABAMA and GULF
to AEC are based on formulary approaches which result in the charges by each
company being updated annually, subject to FERC approval.  See Item 2 -
PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein for details of ALABAMA's




                                     I-10
   



joint-ownership with AEC of a portion of Plant Miller.

   Another of the 70 electric cooperatives is SMEPA, also a generating and
transmitting cooperative.  SMEPA, which began operation in 1970, has a
generating capacity of 739,000 kilowatts and a transmission system estimated to
be 1,357 miles in length.  MISSISSIPPI has an interchange agreement with SMEPA
pursuant to which various services are provided, including the furnishing of
protective capacity by MISSISSIPPI to SMEPA.

   There are 43 electric cooperative organizations operating in, or in
areas adjoining, territory in the State of Georgia in which GEORGIA provides
electric service at retail or wholesale.  Three of these organizations obtain
their power from TVA and one from other sources.  Since July 1, 1975, OPC has
supplied the requirements of the remaining 39 of these cooperative
organizations from self-owned generation acquired from GEORGIA and, until
September 1991, through partial requirements purchases from GEORGIA.  GEORGIA
entered into an agreement with OPC pursuant to which, effective in September
1991, OPC ceased to be a partial requirements wholesale customer of GEORGIA.
Instead, OPC began the purchase of 1,250 megawatts of capacity from GEORGIA
through 1999, subject to reduction or extension by OPC, and may satisfy the
balance of its needs through purchases from others.  This agreement did not
have a material effect on SOUTHERN's or GEORGIA's revenues or earnings.

   There are 65 municipally-owned electric distribution systems operating
in the territory in which SOUTHERN's operating affiliates provide electric
service at retail or wholesale.

   AMEA was organized under an act of the Alabama legislature and is
comprised of 11 municipalities.  In 1986, ALABAMA entered into a firm power
purchase contract with AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of capacity (to
a maximum of 100 megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing September 1,
1986.  In October 1991, ALABAMA entered into a second firm power purchase
contract with AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of additional capacity
(to a maximum 80 megawatts) for a period of 15 years beginning October 1, 1991.
In both contracts the power is being sold to AMEA for its member municipalities
that previously were served directly by ALABAMA as wholesale customers.  Under
the terms of the contracts, ALABAMA received payments from AMEA representing
the net present value of the revenues associated with the respective capacity
entitlements.

   Forty-six municipally-owned electric distribution systems formerly
served on a full requirements wholesale basis by GEORGIA and one county-owned
system now receive their requirements through MEAG, which was established by a
state statute in 1975.  MEAG serves these requirements from self-owned
generation facilities acquired from GEORGIA and through purchases of capacity
and energy from GEORGIA under partial requirements rates.  Similarly, since
1977 Dalton has filled its requirements from generation facilities acquired
from GEORGIA and through partial requirements purchases.  The full requirements
of two municipally-owned electric distribution systems are still served at
wholesale by GEORGIA.  (See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities"
herein.)  GULF and MISSISSIPPI provide wholesale requirements for one municipal
system each.

   GEORGIA has entered into substantially similar agreements with OPC,
MEAG and Dalton providing for the establishment of an integrated transmission
system to carry the power and energy of each.  The agreements require an
investment by each party in the integrated transmission system in proportion to
its respective share of the aggregate system load.  (See Item 2 - PROPERTIES -
"Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.)

   ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF and MISSISSIPPI also have contracts with SEPA (a
federal power marketing agency) providing for the use of those companies'
facilities at government expense to deliver to certain cooperatives and
municipalities, entitled by federal statute to preference in the purchase of
power from SEPA, quantities of power equivalent to the amounts of power
allocated to them by SEPA from certain United States Government hydroelectric
projects.  The operating affiliates also purchase certain amounts of capacity
from SEPA.

   The retail service rights of all electric suppliers in the State of
Georgia are regulated by the 1973 State Territorial Electric Service Act.
Pursuant to the provisions of this Act, all areas within existing municipal
limits were assigned to the primary electric supplier




                                     I-11



therein on March 29, 1973 (451 municipalities, including Atlanta, Columbus,
Macon, Augusta, Athens, Rome and Valdosta, to GEORGIA; 115 to electric
cooperatives; and 50 to publicly-owned systems).  Areas outside of such
municipal limits were either to be assigned or to be declared open for customer
choice of supplier by action of the Georgia PSC pursuant to standards set forth
in the Act.  Consistent with such standards, the Georgia PSC has assigned
substantially all of the land area in the state to a supplier.  Notwithstanding
such assignments, the Act provides that any new customer locating outside of
1973 municipal limits and having a connected load in excess of 900 kilowatts
may receive electric service from the supplier of its choice.

   Under and subject to the provisions of its franchises and concessions
and the 1973 State Territorial Electric Service Act, SAVANNAH has the full but
nonexclusive right to serve the City of Savannah, the Towns of Bloomingdale,
Pooler, Garden City, Guyton, Newington, Oliver, Port Wentworth, Rincon, Tybee
Island, Springfield, Thunderbolt, Vernonburg, and in conjunction with a
secondary supplier, the Town of Richmond Hill.  In addition, SAVANNAH has been
assigned certain unincorporated areas in Chatham, Effingham, Bryan, Bulloch and
Screven Counties by the Georgia PSC.  No other electric utility operates in
competition with SAVANNAH in its service area.

   Pursuant to the 1956 Utility Act, the Mississippi PSC issued
"Grandfather Certificates" of convenience and necessity to MISSISSIPPI and to
six distribution rural cooperatives operating in southeastern Mississippi, then
served in whole or in part by MISSISSIPPI, authorizing them to distribute
electricity in certain specified geographically described areas of the state.
The six cooperatives serve approximately 271,000 retail customers in a
certificated area of approximately 10,300 square miles.  In areas included in a
"Grandfather Certificate", the utility holding such certificate may, without
further certification, extend its lines up to five miles; other extensions
within that area by such utility, or by other utilities, may not be made except
upon a showing of, and a grant of a certificate of, public convenience and
necessity.  Areas included in such a certificate which are subsequently annexed
to municipalities may continue to be served by the holder of the certificate,
irrespective of whether it has a franchise in the annexing municipality.  On
the other hand, the holder of the municipal franchise may not extend service
into such newly annexed area without authorization by the Mississippi PSC.

COMPETITION

The electric utility industry in general has become, and is expected to
continue to be, increasingly competitive as the result of factors including
regulatory and technological developments.  The Energy Act, enacted in 1992,
was intended to foster competition in the wholesale market by, among other
things, facilitating participation by independent power producers.  The Energy
Act includes provisions authorizing the FERC under certain conditions to order
utilities owning transmission facilities to provide wholesale transmission
services for other utilities or entities that generate energy.

   As a result of the foregoing factors, SOUTHERN may experience
increasing competition for available off-system sales of capacity and energy
from neighboring utilities and alternative sources of energy.  Additionally,
the future effect of cogeneration and small-power production facilities on the
SOUTHERN system cannot currently be determined but may be adverse.  Reference
is made to each registrant's "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Future
Earnings Potential" in Item 7 herein for further discussion of competition.

   ALABAMA currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with nine
industrial customers.  Under the terms of these contracts, ALABAMA purchases
excess generation of such companies.  During 1993, ALABAMA purchased 48.3
million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $0.8 million.

   GEORGIA currently has cogeneration contracts in effect with seven
industrial customers.  Under the terms of these contracts, GEORGIA purchases
excess generation of such companies.  During 1993, GEORGIA purchased 4.6
million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $76,000.

   GULF currently has cogeneration agreements for "as available" energy in
effect with two industrial customers.  During 1993, GULF purchased 119 million
kilowatt-hours from such companies for $2.3 million.

   SAVANNAH currently has cogeneration contracts in


                                     I-12





effect with four industrial customers.  Under the terms of these contracts,
SAVANNAH purchases excess generation of such companies.  During 1993, SAVANNAH
purchased 2.4 million kilowatt-hours from such companies at a cost of $51,000.

   The competition for retail energy sales among competing suppliers of
energy is influenced by various factors, including price, availability,
technological advancements and reliability.  These factors are, in turn,
affected by, among other influences, political and environmental
considerations, taxation and supply.

   The operating affiliates have experienced, and expect to continue to
experience, competition in their respective retail service territories in
varying degrees as the result of self-generation (as described above) and fuel
switching by customers and other factors.  (See also Item 1 - BUSINESS  -
"Territory Served" herein for information concerning suppliers of electricity
operating within or near the areas served at retail by the operating
affiliates.)  In addition, while the Energy Act does not provide for "retail
wheeling" (i.e., the transmission and distribution by an electric utility to
retail customers within its service territory of energy produced by another
entity), applicable legislative and regulatory bodies may consider imposing
such a requirement in the future, the effect of which may be adverse.

REGULATION

STATE COMMISSIONS

The operating affiliates and SEGCO are subject to the jurisdiction of their
respective state regulatory commissions, which have broad powers of supervision
and regulation over public utilities operating in the respective states,
including their rates, service regulations, sales of securities (except for the
Mississippi PSC) and, in the cases of the Georgia PSC and Mississippi PSC, in
part, retail service territories.  (See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Rate Matters" and
"Territory Served" herein.)

HOLDING COMPANY ACT

SOUTHERN is registered as a holding company under the Holding Company Act, and
it and its subsidiary companies are subject to the regulatory provisions of
said Act, including provisions relating to the issuance of securities, sales
and acquisitions of securities and utility assets, services performed by SCS
and Southern Nuclear, and the activities of certain of SOUTHERN's special
purpose subsidiaries.

FEDERAL POWER ACT

The Federal Power Act subjects the operating affiliates and SEGCO to regulation
by the FERC as companies engaged in the transmission or sale at wholesale of
electric energy in interstate commerce, including regulation of accounting
policies and practices.

   ALABAMA and GEORGIA are also subject to the provisions of the Federal
Power Act or the earlier Federal Water Power Act applicable to licensees with
respect to their hydroelectric developments.  Among the hydroelectric projects
subject to licensing by the FERC are 14 existing ALABAMA generating stations
having an aggregate installed capacity of 1,582,725 kilowatts and 17 existing
GEORGIA generating stations having an aggregate installed capacity of 859,440
kilowatts.

   In December 1991, ALABAMA and GEORGIA filed with the FERC their
applications for new licenses on six of their existing hydroelectric projects.
The six projects, ALABAMA's Yates and Thurlow and GEORGIA's Lloyd Shoals,
Langdale, Riverview and North Georgia, with 272,340 kilowatts of capacity, had
licenses that expired December 31, 1993.  Although the possibility of
competition existed for these licenses, no competing applications were filed
prior to the filing deadline of December 31, 1991.

   The Lloyd Shoals, Langdale and Riverview projects were granted new
30-year licenses that expire 2023.  Each of the remaining projects are
operating on annual licenses under the same terms and conditions as their
original licenses.  Additionally, the FERC has issued an order granting a
combined, 40-year license for  the Yates and Thurlow projects.  ALABAMA has
applied to the FERC for rehearing of certain provisions of this license.  As a
part of the application for the combined, 40-year license for the Yates and
Thurlow projects, ALABAMA agreed to expand the capacity of these units by a
total of approximately 10.3 megawatts.




                                     I-13
   



   GEORGIA and OPC also have a license, expiring in 2027, for the Rocky
Mountain Project, a pure pumped storage facility of 847,800 kilowatt capacity.
In 1988, the FERC approved an amendment to GEORGIA's license for the project,
adding OPC as co-licensee and extending the commercial operation date to 1996.
(See Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Construction Programs - Rocky Mountain Hydroelectric
Project" and Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.)

   Licenses for all projects, excluding those discussed above, expire in
the period 2007-2023 in the case of ALABAMA's projects and in the period
1997-2020 in the case of GEORGIA's projects.

   Upon or after the expiration of each license, the United States
Government, by act of Congress, may take over the project, or the FERC may
relicense the project either to the original licensee or to a new licensee.  In
the event of takeover or relicensing to another, the original licensee is to be
compensated in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Power Act, such
compensation to reflect the net investment of the licensee in the project, not
in excess of the fair value of the property taken, plus reasonable damages to
other property of the licensee resulting from the severance therefrom of the
property taken.

ATOMIC ENERGY ACT OF 1954

ALABAMA, GEORGIA and Southern Nuclear are subject to the provisions of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, which vests jurisdiction in the NRC over
the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, particularly with regard to
certain public health and safety and antitrust matters.  The National
Environmental Policy Act has been construed to expand the jurisdiction of the
NRC to consider the environmental impact of a facility licensed under the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.

   Reference is made to Notes 1 and 13 to SOUTHERN's, Notes 1 and 11 to
ALABAMA's and Notes 1 and 4 to GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein
for information on nuclear insurance and nuclear decommissioning costs.
Additionally, Note 3 to GEORGIA's financial statements contains information
regarding nuclear performance standards imposed by the Georgia PSC that may
impact retail rates.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

The operating affiliates and SEGCO are subject to federal, state and local
environmental requirements which, among other things, control emissions of
particulates, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into the air; the use,
transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic waste; and
discharges of pollutants, including thermal discharges, into waters of the
United States.  The operating affiliates and SEGCO expect to comply with such
requirements, which generally are becoming increasingly stringent, through
technical improvements, the use of appropriate combinations of low-sulfur fuel
and chemicals, addition of environmental control facilities, changes in control
techniques and reduction of the operating levels of generating facilities.
Failure to comply with such requirements could result in the complete shutdown
of individual facilities not in compliance as well as the imposition of civil
and criminal penalties.

   Reference is made to each registrant's "Management's Discussion and
Analysis" in Item 7 herein for a discussion of the Clean Air Act and other
environmental legislation and proceedings.
  
   Possible adverse health effects of EMFs from various sources, including
transmission and distribution lines, have been the subject of a number of
studies and increasing public discussion.  The scientific research currently is
inconclusive as to whether EMFs may cause adverse health effects.  However,
there is the possibility of passage of legislation and promulgation of
rulemaking that would require measures to mitigate EMFs, with resulting
increases in capital and operating costs.  In addition, the potential exists for
public liability with respect to lawsuits brought by plaintiffs alleging damages
caused by EMFs.

   The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's estimated capital expenditures
for environmental quality control





                                     I-14

facilities for the years 1994, 1995 and 1996 are as follows:  (in millions)


   *Such estimates are included in the current construction programs.  (See
Item 1 - BUSINESS - "Construction Programs" herein.)

   Additionally, each operating affiliate (excluding SAVANNAH) and SEGCO have
incurred costs for environmental remediation of various sites.  Reference is
made to each applicable registrant's "Management's Discussion and Analysis" in
Item 7 herein for information regarding the registrants' environmental
remediation efforts.

   The operating affiliates and SEGCO are unable to predict at this time what
additional steps they may be required to take as a result of the implementation
of existing or future quality control requirements for air, water and hazardous
or toxic materials, but such steps could adversely affect system operations and
result in substantial additional costs.

   The outcome of the matters mentioned above under "Regulation" cannot now be
determined, except that these developments may result in delays in obtaining
appropriate licenses for generating facilities, increased construction and
operating costs, or reduced generation, the nature and extent of which, while
not determinable at this time, could be substantial.

RATE MATTERS

RATE STRUCTURE

The rates and service regulations of the operating affiliates are uniform for
each class of service throughout their respective service areas.  Rates for
residential electric service are generally of the block type based upon
kilowatt-hours used and include minimum charges.

   Residential and other rates contain separate customer charges.  Rates for
commercial service are presently of the block type and, for large customers,
the billing demand is generally used to determine capacity and minimum bill
charges.  These large customers' rates are generally based upon usage by the
customer (without differentiation between industrial and commercial
classifications) including those with special features to encourage off-peak
usage.  With respect to GULF's and MISSISSIPPI's retail rates, fuel and
purchased power costs above base levels included in the various rate schedules
are billed to such customers under the fuel and energy adjustment clauses.
ALABAMA, GEORGIA and SAVANNAH are allowed by state law to recover fuel and net
purchased energy costs through fuel cost recovery provisions which are adjusted
to reflect increases or decreases in such costs.  GULF's recovery of such costs
is based upon projections thereof for six-month periods; any over/under
recovery during any such period is reflected in the subsequent six-month
period.  The adjustment factors for MISSISSIPPI's retail and wholesale rates
are levelized based on the estimated energy cost for the year, adjusted for any
actual over/under collection from the previous year.  Revenues are adjusted for
differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts actually recovered in
current rates.

INTEGRATED RESOURCE PLANNING

During 1991, the Georgia legislature passed certain legislation under which
both GEORGIA and SAVANNAH must file Integrated Resource Plans for approval by
the Georgia PSC.  The plans must specify how GEORGIA and SAVANNAH each intend
to meet the future electrical needs of their customers through a combination of
demand-side and supply-side resources.  The Georgia PSC must pre-certify these
new resources.  Once certified, all prudently incurred construction costs will
be recoverable through rates.

   In July 1992, the Georgia PSC approved Integrated Resource Plans for GEORGIA
and SAVANNAH.  In January 1993, the Georgia PSC certified the construction of
two combustion turbine units by SAVANNAH, scheduled to be in service in 1994,
to meet its peaking needs.  The Georgia PSC has certified the construction by


                                     I-15



GEORGIA of four combustion turbine generating units in 1994 and four units in
1995.  GEORGIA has also completed a demonstration competitive bid process for
its supply-side resource requirements expected for 1996.  In December 1993,
GEORGIA filed with the Georgia PSC a proposal to purchase from FPC 400
megawatts of capacity in 1996 and 1997 and 200 megawatts of capacity in 1998
and 1999 with options to increase or decrease capacity during those years.
Also, GEORGIA has proposed a joint venture combustion turbine project to be
completed in 1996, also with FPC, which would provide GEORGIA with a 1/3
ownership in a 147 megawatt combustion turbine located at FPC's Intercession
City Plant.  GEORGIA would have exclusive rights to all capacity from the unit
for the four summer months and FPC would have the output for the other eight
months of the year.  The process is designed to verify the need for capacity
and that the lowest cost alternatives have been selected.  In January 1993, the
Georgia PSC also certified certain residential energy conservation programs for
GEORGIA and SAVANNAH and provided for the recovery by GEORGIA and SAVANNAH of
program costs.  Depending on the success of these programs, GEORGIA and
SAVANNAH may each receive a reward or, in GEORGIA's case, a penalty.  In August
1993, the Georgia PSC also certified certain commercial and industrial energy
conservation programs submitted by GEORGIA and SAVANNAH.

   During 1991, the Georgia PSC approved pilot demand-side programs that
encourage conservation for retail customers.  Pursuant to an Integrated
Resource Plan approved by the Georgia PSC, GEORGIA has implemented various
demand-side option programs and has been authorized by the Georgia PSC to
recover associated program costs through rate riders.  On October 15, 1993, a
superior court judge ruled that recovery of these costs through rate riders is
unlawful.  GEORGIA has ceased collection of the rate riders and is deferring
program costs as ordered by the Georgia PSC pending the final outcome of this
matter.  See Note 3 to SOUTHERN's and GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8
herein for further information.

ENVIRONMENTAL COST RECOVERY PLANS

In April 1993, the Florida Legislature adopted legislation for an ECR clause,
which allows a utility to petition the Florida PSC for recovery of all prudent
environmental compliance costs that are not being recovered through base rates
or any other rate-adjustment clause.  Such environmental costs include
increased operation and maintenance expense, depreciation, and a return on
invested capital.

   On January 12, 1994, the Florida PSC approved GULF's petition under ECR for
recovery of environmental costs that were projected to be incurred from July
1993 through September 1994.  The order allows the recovery from customers of
such costs amounting to $7.8 million from February through September 1994.
Thereafter, recovery under ECR will be determined semi-annually and will
include a true-up of the prior period and a projection of the ensuing six-month
period.

   The Mississippi PSC approved MISSISSIPPI's ECO Plan in 1992.  The plan
establishes procedures to facilitate the Mississippi PSC's overview of
MISSISSIPPI's environmental strategy and provides for recovery of costs
associated with environmental projects approved by the Mississippi PSC.  Under
the ECO Plan any increase in the annual revenue requirement is limited to 2
percent of retail revenues.  However, the plan also provides for carryover of
any amount over the 2 percent limit into the next year's revenue requirement.
The ECO Plan resulted in an annual retail rate increase of $2.6 million
effective April 1993.

RATE INCREASE APPLICATIONS

Reference is made to Note 3 to each registrant's notes to the financial
statements in Item 8 herein for a discussion of retail and wholesale rate
proceedings.  Also discussed therein is a review by the FERC concerning the
reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on equity of 13.75% or greater.

LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

The operating affiliates of the Southern electric system have entered into
long-term contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain
non-affiliated utilities located outside the system's service area.  Certain of
these agreements are non-firm and are based on capacity of the system in
general.  Other agreements are




                                     I-16




firm and pertain to capacity related to specific generating units.  Because the
energy is generally sold at cost under these agreements, profitability is
affected primarily by revenues from capacity sales.  See Note 8, 7, 6, 7, 7 and
6 to the financial statements of SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI
and SAVANNAH, respectively, in Item 8 herein for the amounts of capacity
revenues recorded for each of the past three years.

   Long-term non-firm power of 400 megawatts was sold to FPC in 1993.  In
January 1994, the amount decreased to 200 megawatts, and the contract will
expire at year-end.

   Unit power from specific generating plants is currently being sold to FP&L,
FPC, JEA, and the city of Tallahassee, Florida.  Under these agreements, an
average of 1,700 megawatts of capacity is scheduled to be sold during 1994 and
1995.  Thereafter, these sales will decline to some 1,600 megawatts and remain
at that approximate level, unless reduced by FP&L, FPC and JEA after 1999,
until the expiration of the contracts in 2010.

GULF STATES DISPUTE SETTLEMENT

Reference is made to Note 8, 7, 3, 7 and 7 to the financial statements of
SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF and MISSISSIPPI, respectively, in Item 8
herein for a discussion of the Gulf States settlement.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

The companies of the SOUTHERN system had a total of 28,743 employees on their
payrolls at December 31, 1993.


                      

   The operating affiliates have separate agreements with local unions of the 
IBEW generally covering wages, working conditions and procedures for handling
grievances and arbitration.  These agreements apply with certain exceptions to
operating, maintenance and construction employees.

   ALABAMA has agreements with the IBEW on a three-year contract extending to
August 15, 1995.  Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that date,
negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be effective
after such date.

   GEORGIA has an agreement with the IBEW covering wages and working conditions
which is in effect through June 30, 1996.  GEORGIA also has a contract with the
United Plant Guard Workers of America with respect to Plant Hatch which extends
through September 30, 1995.

   GULF has an agreement with a local union of the IBEW on a three-year
contract extending to August 15, 1995.

   MISSISSIPPI has agreements with local unions of the IBEW on a contract
extending to August 16, 1995.

   Southern Nuclear has an agreement with the IBEW on a three-year contract
extending to August 15, 1995.  Upon notice given at least 60 days prior to that
date, negotiations may be initiated with respect to agreement terms to be
effective after such date.

   The agreements also subject the terms of the pension plans for the companies
discussed above to collective bargaining with the unions at five-year
intervals.

   SAVANNAH has three-year labor agreements with the IBEW and the Office
and Professional Employees International Union that expire April 15, 1996 and
December 1, 1996, respectively.



                                     I-17



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

ELECTRIC PROPERTIES

The operating affiliates and SEGCO, at December 31, 1993, operated 33
hydroelectric generating stations, 31 fossil fuel generating stations and three
nuclear generating stations.  The amounts of capacity owned by each company are
shown in the table below.


                                                                        
                                                                                
                                     I-18




  Notes:
   (1)   Owned by ALABAMA and MISSISSIPPI as tenants in common in the 
         proportions of 60% and 40%, respectively.
   (2)   Excludes the capacity owned by AEC.  (See Item 2- PROPERTIES -
         "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.)
   (3)   Capacity shown is GEORGIA's or GULF's (Unit 3 only) current portion:
         8.4% of Units 1 and 2, 75% (25% for GULF) for Unit 3 and 33.1% for
         Unit 4 of total plant capacity.  See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Proposed
         Sales of Property" and "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.
   (4)   Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (53.5%) of total plant capacity.
   (5)   Represents 50% of the plant which is owned as tenants in common by
         GULF and MISSISSIPPI.
   (6)   SEGCO is jointly-owned by ALABAMA and GEORGIA.  (See Item 1 - BUSINESS
         herein.)
   (7)   Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (50.1%) of total plant capacity.
   (8)   Capacity shown is GEORGIA's portion (45.7%) of total plant capacity.
   (9)   Generation is dedicated to a single industrial customer.

   Except as discussed below under "Titles to Property", the principal plants
and other important units of the SOUTHERN system are owned in fee by the
operating affiliates and SEGCO.  It is the opinion of management of each such
company that its operating properties are adequately maintained and are
substantially in good operating condition.

   MISSISSIPPI owns a 79-mile length of 500-kilovolt transmission line which is
leased to Gulf States.  The line, completed in 1984, extends from Plant Daniel
to the Louisiana state line.  Gulf States is paying a use fee over a forty-year
period covering all expenses and the amortization of the original $57 million
cost of the line.

   The all-time maximum demand on the SOUTHERN system was 25,936,900 kilowatts
and occurred in July 1993.  This amount excludes demand served by generation
retained by OPC, MEAG and Dalton and excludes demand associated with power
purchased from SEPA by its preference customers.  At that time, 27,342,700
kilowatts were supplied by SOUTHERN system generation and 1,405,800 kilowatts
(net) were sold to other parties through net purchased and interchanged power.
The reserve margin for the Southern electric system at that time was 13.2%.
For information on the other registrants' peak demands reference is made to
Item 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA herein.

   ALABAMA and GEORGIA will incur significant costs in decommissioning their
nuclear units at the end of their useful lives.  (See Item 1 - BUSINESS -




                                     I-19



"Regulation - Atomic Energy Act of 1954" and Note 1 to SOUTHERN's, ALABAMA's
and GEORGIA's  financial statements in Item 8 herein.)

OTHER ELECTRIC GENERATION FACILITIES

Through special purpose subsidiaries, SOUTHERN owns a 50% interest in
Freeport, a 35% interest in Edelnor, a 55.3% interest Alicura and a 33.3%
interest in a co-generation facility in Hawaii.  For further discussion of
other SEI projects, see Item 1 - BUSINESS - "New Business Development" herein. 
The generating capacity of these utilities (or facilities) at December 31,
1993, was as follows:




*  Represents a concession contract that provides SEI with the rights to use
   the generation.





                                     I-20





JOINTLY-OWNED FACILITIES

ALABAMA has sold an undivided interest in two units of Plant Miller to AEC.
GEORGIA has sold undivided interests in certain generating plants and other
related facilities to OPC, MEAG, Dalton, FP&L and JEA.  The percentages of
ownership resulting from these sales are as follows:



   ALABAMA and GEORGIA have contracted to operate and maintain the respective
units in which each has an interest (other than Rocky Mountain, as described
below) as agent for the joint owners.  See "Proposed Sales of Property" below
for a description of the proposed sale of GEORGIA's remaining unsold ownership
interest in Plant Scherer Unit 4.

   In connection with the joint ownership arrangements for Plant Vogtle,
GEORGIA has remaining commitments to purchase declining fractions of OPC's and
MEAG's capacity and energy until 1994 for Unit 1 and 1996 for Unit 2 and, with
regard to a portion of a 5% interest in Plant Vogtle owned by MEAG, until the
latter of the retirement of the plant or the latest stated maturity date of
MEAG's bonds issued to finance such ownership interest.  The payments for
capacity are required whether any capacity is available.  The energy cost is a
function of each unit's variable operating costs.  Except for the portion of
the capacity payments related to the 1987 and 1990 write-offs of Plant Vogtle
costs, the cost of such capacity and energy is included in purchased power in
the Statements of Income in Item 8 herein.

   In December 1988, GEORGIA and OPC completed a joint ownership agreement for
the Rocky Mountain project under which GEORGIA will retain its present
investment in the project and OPC will finance, complete and operate the
facility.  Upon completion (scheduled for 1995), GEORGIA will own an undivided
interest in the project equal to the proportion its investment bears to the
total investment in the project (excluding each party's cost of funds and ad
valorem taxes).  For purposes of the ownership formula, GEORGIA's investment
will be expressed in nominal dollars and OPC's investment will be expressed in
constant 1987 dollars.  Based on current cost estimates, GEORGIA's final
ownership is estimated at approximately 25% of the project at completion.
GEORGIA has held preliminary discussions regarding the potential disposition of
its remaining interest in the project.

PROPOSED SALES OF PROPERTY

In 1991 and 1993, GEORGIA completed the first two in a series of four separate
transactions to sell Unit 4 of Plant Scherer to FP&L and JEA for a total price
of approximately $806 million, including any gains on these transactions.  FP&L
would eventually own approximately 76.4% of this unit, with JEA owning the
remainder.  The capacity from this unit was previously dedicated to off-system
sales contracts with Gulf States that were suspended in 1988.  GEORGIA will
continue to operate the unit.





                                      I-21



   The 1991 and 1993 sales and the remaining transactions are scheduled as
follows:




   Plant Scherer, a jointly owned coal-fired generating plant, has four
units with a total capacity of 3,272 megawatts.  Unit 4 was completed in 1989.

TITLES TO PROPERTY

The operating affiliates' and SEGCO's interests in the principal plants (other
than certain pollution control facilities, one small hydroelectric generating
station leased by GEORGIA and the land on which four combustion turbine
generators of MISSISSIPPI are located, which is held by easement) and other
important units of the respective companies are owned in fee by such companies,
subject only to the liens of applicable mortgage indentures (except for SEGCO)
and to excepted encumbrances as defined therein.  The operating affiliates own
the fee interests in certain of their principal plants as tenants in common.
(See Item 2 - PROPERTIES - "Jointly-Owned Facilities" herein.)  Properties such
as electric transmission and distribution lines and steam heating mains are
constructed principally on rights-of-way which are maintained under franchise
or are held by easement only.  A substantial portion of lands submerged by
reservoirs is held under flood right easements.  In substantially all of its
coal reserve lands, SEGCO owns or will own the coal only, with adequate rights
for the mining and removal thereof.

PROPERTY ADDITIONS AND RETIREMENTS

During the period from January 1, 1989, to December 31, 1993, the operating
affiliates, SEGCO, and other (i.e. SCS, Southern Nuclear and, beginning in
1993, various of the special purpose subsidiaries) gross property additions and
retirements were as follows:






(1) Includes approximately $62 million attributable to property sold to AEC in
    1992.  
(2) Includes approximately $480 million attributable to property sold to OPC, 
    FP&L and JEA, but excludes $231 million from the write-off of certain Plant 
    Vogtle costs in 1990.
(3) Net of intercompany eliminations.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

(1) STEPAK V. CERTAIN SOUTHERN OFFICIALS
       (U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia)

    In April 1991, two SOUTHERN stockholders filed a derivative action suit
    against certain current and former directors and officers of SOUTHERN.  The
    suit alleges violations of RICO by officers and breaches of fiduciary duty
    and gross negligence by all defendants resulting from alleged fraudulent
    accounting for spare parts, illegal political campaign contributions,
    violations of federal securities laws involving misrepresentations and
    omissions in SEC filings, and concealment of the foregoing acts.  The
    complaint seeks damages, including treble damages pursuant to RICO, in an
    unspecified amount, which if awarded, would be payable to SOUTHERN.  The
    plaintiffs' amended complaint was dismissed by the court in March 1992.
    The court ruled the plaintiffs had failed to present adequately their
    allegation that the





                                      I-22



    SOUTHERN board of directors' refusal of an earlier demand by the plaintiffs
    was wrongful.  The plaintiffs appealed the dismissal to the U.S. Court of
    Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.

(2) JOHNSON V. ALABAMA
    (Circuit Court of Shelby County, Alabama)

    In September 1990, two customers of ALABAMA filed a civil complaint in the
    Circuit Court of Shelby County, Alabama, against ALABAMA seeking to 
    represent all persons who, prior to June 23, 1989, entered into agreements 
    with ALABAMA for the financing of heat pumps and other merchandise 
    purchased from vendors other than ALABAMA.  The plaintiffs contended that 
    ALABAMA was required to obtain a license under the Alabama Consumer Finance 
    Act to engage in the business of making consumer loans.  The plaintiffs 
    were seeking an order declaring these agreements null and void and 
    requiring ALABAMA to refund all payments, principal and interest, made 
    under these agreements.  The aggregate amount under these agreements, 
    together with interest paid, currently is estimated to be $40 million.

    In June 1993, the court ordered ALABAMA to refund or forfeit interest of
    approximately $10 million because of ALABAMA's failure to obtain such 
    license.  However, the court's order did not require any refund or
    forfeiture with respect to any principal payments under the agreements
    at issue.  ALABAMA has appealed the court's order to the Supreme Court of 
    Alabama.

    The final outcome of this matter cannot be determined; however, in 
    management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse
    effect on SOUTHERN's or ALABAMA's financial statements.

(3) OHIO RIVER COMPANY, ET AL.VS. GULF, ET AL.
    (U.S. District Court for Southern District of Ohio, Western Division)

    In 1993, a complaint against GULF and SCS was filed in federal district
    court in Ohio by two companies with which GULF had contracted for the
    transportation by barge for certain GULF coal supplies.  The complaint
    alleges breach of the contract by GULF and seeks damages estimated by
    the plaintiffs to be in excess of $85 million.

    The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
    management's opinion the final outcome will not have a material adverse
    effect on SOUTHERN's or GULF's financial statements.

   See Item 1 - BUSINESS -  "Construction Programs," "Fuel Supply," "Regulation
- - Federal Power Act" and "Rate Matters", for a description of certain other
administrative and legal proceedings discussed therein.

   Additionally, each of the operating affiliates and SEI are, in the normal
course of business, engaged in litigation or administrative proceedings that
include, but are not limited to, acquisition of property, injuries and damages
claims, and complaints by present and former employees.  In management's
opinion these various actions will not have a material adverse effect on any of
the registrants' financial statements.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF
         SECURITY HOLDERS

None.





                                      I-23



EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF SOUTHERN

(Inserted in Part I in accordance with Regulation S-K,
Item 401(b), Instruction 3)

EDWARD L. ADDISON
Chairman and CEO
Age 63
Elected in 1983; responsible primarily for the formation
of overall corporate policy.  He was elected Chairman
of SOUTHERN effective January 1994.

A. W. DAHLBERG
President and Director
Age 53
Elected in 1985; President and Chief Executive
Officer of GEORGIA from 1988 through 1993.  He
was elected Executive Vice President of SOUTHERN
in 1991.  He was elected President of SOUTHERN 
effective January 1994.

PAUL J. DENICOLA
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 45
Elected in 1989; Executive Vice President of 
SOUTHERN since 1991.  Elected President and Chief 
Executive Officer of SCS effective January 1994.  He
previously served as Executive Vice President of SCS 
from 1991 to 1993 and President and Chief Executive 
Officer of MISSISSIPPI from 1989 to 1991.

H. ALLEN FRANKLIN
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 49
Elected in 1988; President and Chief Executive Officer 
of SCS from 1988 through 1993 and, beginning 1991, 
Executive Vice President of SOUTHERN.  He was 
elected President and CEO of GEORGIA effective 
January 1994.

ELMER B. HARRIS
Executive Vice President and Director
Age 54
Elected in 1989; President and Chief Executive Officer 
of ALABAMA since 1989 and, beginning 1991, 
Executive Vice President of SOUTHERN.  He previously
served as Senior Executive Vice President of GEORGIA 
from 1986 to 1989.

W. L. WESTBROOK
Financial Vice President
Age 54
Elected in 1986; responsible primarily for all aspects of 
financing for SOUTHERN.  He has served as Executive 
Vice President of SCS since 1986.

BILL M. GUTHRIE
Vice President
Age 60 Elected in 1991; serves as Chief Production Officer for 
the SOUTHERN system.  Senior Executive Vice 
President of SCS effective January 1994.  He has also 
served as Executive Vice President of ALABAMA since 
1988.

Each of the above is currently an officer of SOUTHERN, serving a term running
from the last annual meeting of the directors (May 26, 1993) for one year until
the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and qualified.





                                      I-24

                                    PART II



ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     (a)  The common stock of SOUTHERN is listed and traded on the New York
          Stock Exchange.  The stock is also traded on regional exchanges
          across the United States.  High and low stock prices, per the New
          York Stock Exchange Composite Tape and as adjusted to reflect a
          two-for-one stock split in the form of a stock distribution for each
          share held as of February 7, 1994, during each quarter for the past
          two years were as follows:




          There is no market for the other registrants' common stock, all of
          which is owned by SOUTHERN.  On February 28, 1994, the closing price
          of SOUTHERN's common stock was $20-5/8.

     (b)  Number of SOUTHERN's common stockholders at December 31, 1993:
                                    237,105

          Each of the other registrants have one common stockholder, SOUTHERN.

     (c)  Common dividends are payable at the discretion of each registrant's
          board of directors.  The common dividends paid by SOUTHERN and the
          operating affiliates to their stockholder(s) for the past two years
          were as follows: (in thousands)




   In January 1994, SOUTHERN's board of directors authorized a two-for-one
common stock split in the form of a stock distribution for each share held as
of February 7, 1994.  For all reported common stock data, the number of common
shares outstanding  and per share amounts for earnings, dividends, and market
price have been adjusted to reflect the stock distribution.





                                     II-1




   The dividend paid per share by SOUTHERN was 27.5c. for each quarter of 1992
and 28.5c. for each quarter of 1993.  SOUTHERN's common dividend for the first
quarter of 1994 was raised to 29.5c. per share.

   The amount of common dividends that may be paid by the subsidiary
registrants is restricted in accordance with their respective first mortgage
bond indenture and charter.  The amounts of earnings retained in the business
and the amounts restricted against the payment of cash dividends on common
stock at December 31, 1993, were as follows:




ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

   SOUTHERN.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Consolidated Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-38
through II-49.

   ALABAMA.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-78 through II-91.

   GEORGIA.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-123 through II-137.

   GULF.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages  II- 166 through
II-179.

   MISSISSIPPI.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-207 through II-220.

   SAVANNAH.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Selected
Financial and Operating Data," contained herein at pages II-245 through II-258.

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
          FINANCIAL CONDITION

   SOUTHERN.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-8 through II-15.

   ALABAMA.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-53 through II-58.

   GEORGIA.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-95 through II-101.

   GULF.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-141 through II-147.

   MISSISSIPPI.  Reference is made to information under the heading
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition," contained herein at pages II-183 through II-189.

   SAVANNAH.  Reference is made to information under the heading "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,"
contained herein at pages II-224 through II-230.





                                     II-2


ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

INDEX TO 1993 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS








                                      II-3



ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
             FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                     II-4

























                             THE SOUTHERN COMPANY
                           AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                              FINANCIAL SECTION






















                                     II-5


MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




The management of The Southern Company has prepared -- and is responsible for
- -- the consolidated financial statements and related information included in
this report.  These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily
include amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of
management.  Financial information throughout this annual report is consistent
with the financial statements.

   The company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the company.  Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the cost of
the system should not exceed its benefits.  The company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit
relationship.

   The company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the company's internal audit staff.  The company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control
system in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the financial statements.

   The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of three directors
who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
reporting and control functions.  Periodically, this committee meets with
management, the internal auditors, and the independent public accountants to
ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls, and financial reporting matters.  The internal
auditors and independent public accountants have access to the members of the
audit committee at any time.

   Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the company's operations are conducted according to a high
standard of business ethics.

   In management's opinion, the consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position, results of
operations, and cash flows of The Southern Company and its subsidiaries in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  As discussed in Note
4 to the financial statements, an uncertainty exists with respect to the
actions of regulators regarding recoverability of the investment in the Rocky
Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric project.  The outcome of this uncertainty
cannot be determined until regulatory proceedings are concluded.  Accordingly,
no provision for any write-down of the costs associated with the Rocky Mountain
project resulting from the potential actions of the Georgia Public Service
Commission has been made in the accompanying financial statements.


/s/ E. L. Addison                                  /s/ W. L. Westbrook
- ------------------------------------              ----------------------------
Edward L. Addison                                  W. L. Westbrook         
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer               Financial Vice President

                        
                                     II-6

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS




TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND TO THE STOCKHOLDERS OF THE SOUTHERN COMPANY:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated
statements of capitalization of The Southern Company (a Delaware corporation)
and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the related
consolidated statements of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-16 through II-37) 
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of The Southern Company and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 
and 1992, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the 
periods stated, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

   As explained in Notes 2 and 9 to the financial statements, effective January
1, 1993, The Southern Company changed its methods of accounting for
postretirement benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.

   As more fully discussed in Note 4 to the financial statements, an
uncertainty exists with respect to the actions of the regulators regarding
recoverability of the investment in the Rocky Mountain pumped storage
hydroelectric project.  The outcome of this uncertainty cannot be determined
until regulatory proceedings are concluded.  Accordingly, no provision for any
write-down of the costs associated with the Rocky Mountain project resulting
from the potential actions of the Georgia Public Service Commission has been
made in the accompanying financial statements.


                                        
                                        /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.

Atlanta, Georgia
February 16, 1994





                                     II-7

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION 
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EARNINGS AND DIVIDENDS

The Southern Company's 1993 financial performance exceeded the strong results
recorded for 1992, and set several new records.  The company's financial
strength continued to gain momentum for the third consecutive year.  In January
1994, The Southern Company board of directors increased the quarterly dividend
rate by 3.5 percent, and approved a two-for-one common stock split in the form
of a stock distribution.  For all reported common stock data, the number of
common shares outstanding and per share amounts for earnings, dividends, and
market price have been adjusted to reflect the stock distribution.  For 1993,
The Southern Company's net income of $1.0 billion established a new record high
and the company's common stock reached an all-time high closing price during
the year of 23 3/8 -- surpassing the record of 19 1/2 set in 1992.  Also,
return on average common equity reached the highest level since 1986.

   Earnings reported for 1993 totaled $1,002 million or $1.57 per share, an
increase of $49 million or 6 cents per share from the previous year.  Both 1993
and 1992 earnings were affected by special non-operating or non-recurring
items.  After excluding these special items in both years, earnings from
operations of the ongoing business of selling electricity were $1,016 million
or $1.59 per share, an increase of $77 million or 10 cents per share compared
with 1992.  The special items that affected 1993 and 1992 earnings were as
follows:



   In 1993, several items -- both positive and negative -- had an impact on
earnings, which resulted in a net reduction of $14 million.  These items were:
(1) The conclusion of a settlement agreement -- discussed later -- with Gulf
States Utilities (Gulf States) increased earnings.  (2)  The second in a series
of four separate transactions to sell Plant Scherer Unit 4 to two Florida
utilities increased earnings.  (3)  Environmental clean-up costs incurred at
sites located in Alabama and Georgia decreased earnings.  (4) Costs associated
with a transportation fleet reduction program decreased earnings.  The
improvements in 1993 earnings resulted primarily from increased retail energy
sales and continued emphasis on effective cost controls.

The special items that increased 1992 earnings were primarily related to
additional settlement provisions from Gulf States, and to gains on the sale of
Gulf States common stock received in 1991.

   Returns on average common equity were 13.43 percent in 1993, 13.42 percent
in 1992, and 12.74 percent in 1991.  Dividends paid on common stock during 1993
were $1.14 per share or 28 1/2 cents per quarter.  During 1992 and 1991,
dividends paid per share were $1.10 and $1.07, respectively.  In January 1994,
The Southern Company board of directors raised the quarterly dividend to 29 1/2
cents per share or an annual rate of $1.18 per share.

REVENUES

Operating revenues increased in 1993 and 1992 and decreased in 1991 as a result
of the following factors:







                                     II-8

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report





   Retail revenues of $7.3 billion in 1993 increased 7.4 percent from last
year, compared with an increase of 1.6 percent in 1992.  Under fuel cost
recovery provisions, fuel revenues generally equal fuel expense -- including
the fuel component of purchased energy -- and do not affect net income.

   Sales for resale revenues within the service area were $447 million in 1993,
up 9.2 percent from the prior year.  This increase resulted primarily from the
prolonged hot summer weather, which increased the demand for electricity.
Revenues from sales for resale within the service area were $409 million in
1992, down 1.9 percent from the prior year.  The decrease resulted from certain
municipalities and cooperatives in the service area retaining more of their own
generation at facilities jointly owned with Georgia Power.

   Revenues from sales to utilities outside the service area under long-term
contracts consist of capacity and energy components.  Capacity revenues reflect
the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the contracts.
Energy is generally sold at variable cost.  The capacity and energy components
were as follows:



   Capacity revenues decreased in 1993 and 1992 because the amount of capacity
under contract declined by some 500 megawatts and 300 megawatts, respectively.
In 1994, the contracted capacity will decline another 400 megawatts.

   Changes in revenues are influenced heavily by the amount of energy sold each
year.  Kilowatt-hour sales for 1993 and the percent change by year were as
follows:


   The rate of growth in 1993 retail energy sales was the highest since 1986.
Residential energy sales registered the highest annual increase in two decades
as a result of hotter-than-normal summer weather and the addition of 46,000 new
customers.  Commercial sales were also affected by the warm summer.  Industrial
energy sales in 1993 and 1992 showed moderate growth, reflecting a recovery in
the business and economic conditions in The Southern Company's service area.
Energy sales to retail customers are projected to grow at an average annual
rate of 1.7 percent during the period 1994 through 2004.

   Energy sales for resale outside the service area are predominantly unit
power sales under long-term contracts to Florida utilities.  Economy sales and
amounts sold under short-term contracts are also sold for resale outside the
service area.  Sales to customers outside the service area have decreased for
the third consecutive year primarily as a result of the scheduled decline in
megawatts of capacity under contract.  In addition, the decline in 1992 and
1991 sales was also influenced by fluctuations in prices for oil and natural
gas, the primary fuel sources for utilities with which the company has
long-term contracts.  When oil and gas prices fall below a certain level, these
customers can generate electricity to meet their requirements more
economically.  However, the fluctuation in these energy sales, excluding the
impact of contractual declines, had minimal effect on earnings because The
Southern Company is paid for dedicating specific amounts of its generating
capacity to these utilities.

EXPENSES

Total operating expenses of $6.7 billion for 1993 were up 6.5 percent compared
with the prior year.  The increase was attributable to higher production
expenses of $75 million to meet increased energy demands and an additional $50
million in depreciation expenses and property taxes resulting from additional
utility plant being placed into service.  The transportation fleet reduction
program and environmental clean-up costs discussed earlier increased expenses
by some $62 million.  Also, a $67 million change in deferred Plant Vogtle
expenses compared with the amount in 1992 contributed to the rise in total
operating expenses.

   In 1992, total operating expenses of $6.3 billion were at the same level
reported for 1991.  The costs to produce and deliver electricity in 1992
declined by $165 million primarily as a result of less energy being sold and
continued effective cost controls.  However, expenses in 1991 were reduced by
proceeds from a settlement





                                     II-9

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report





agreement with Gulf States that more than offset the decline in 1992 expenses
when compared with 1991.  Deferred expenses related to Plant Vogtle in 1992
increased by $47 million when compared with the prior year.

   Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for The Southern Company.
The mix of fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily
by system load, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of hydro
and nuclear generating units.  The amount and sources of generation and the
average cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour generated were as follows:

                                                    

   Fuel and purchased power expenses of $2.6 billion in 1993 increased 1.3
percent compared with the prior year because of increased energy demands and
slightly higher average cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour generated.  Fuel and
purchased power costs in 1992 decreased $137 million or 5.0 percent compared
with 1991 primarily because 1.1 billion fewer kilowatt-hours were needed to
meet customer requirements.  Also, the decrease in these costs was attributable
to a lower average cost of fuel per net kilowatt-hour generated.

   Income taxes for 1993 increased $69 million compared with the prior year.
The increase is attributable to a number of factors, including a 1 percent
increase in the corporate federal income tax rate effective January 1993, the
second sale of additional ownership interest in Plant Scherer Unit 4, and the
increase in taxable income from operations.  For 1992, income taxes rose $11
million or 1.7 percent above the amount reported for 1991.

   For the fifth consecutive year, total gross interest charges and preferred
stock dividends declined from amounts reported in the previous year.  The
declines are attributable to lower interest rates and significant refinancing
activities during the past two years.  In 1993, these costs were $831 million
- -- down $21 million or 2.3 percent.  These costs for 1992 decreased $71
million.  As a result of favorable market conditions during 1993, some $3.0
billion of senior securities was issued for the primary purpose of retiring
higher-cost debt and preferred stock.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

The Southern Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are
based on the recovery of historical costs.  Therefore, inflation creates an
economic loss because the company is recovering its costs of investments in
dollars that have less purchasing power.  While the inflation rate has been
relatively low in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on The
Southern Company because of the large investment in long-lived utility plant.
Conventional accounting for historical cost does not recognize this economic
loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities
with fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt and preferred stock.  Any
recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of
return allowed.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential.  The level of future earnings depends
on numerous factors ranging from growth in energy sales to regulatory matters.

   Georgia Power has completed two of four separate transactions to sell Unit 4
of Plant Scherer to two Florida utilities.  The remaining transactions are
scheduled to take place in 1994 and 1995.  If the sales take place as planned,
Georgia Power could realize an after-tax gain currently estimated to total
approximately $20 million.  See Note 7 to the financial statements for
additional information.

   In early 1994, Georgia Power and the system service company announced work
force reduction programs that are estimated to reduce 1994 earnings by some $55
million.  These actions will assist in efforts to control the growth in
operating expenses.





                                    II-10

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report



   See Note 4 to the financial statements for information on an uncertainty
regarding full recovery of an investment in the Rocky Mountain pumped storage
hydroelectric project.

   Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
which are subject to a number of factors.  Traditionally, these factors have
included changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy conservation
practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, weather, competition, and the
rate of economic growth in the company's service area.  However, the Energy
Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) will have a profound effect on the future of
the electric utility industry.  The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency,
alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric utilities.  The
law also includes provisions to streamline the licensing process for new
nuclear plants.  The Southern Company is preparing to meet the challenge of
this major change in the traditional business practices of selling electricity.
The Energy Act allows independent power producers (IPPs) to access a utility's
transmission network in order to sell electricity to other utilities, and this
may enhance the incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for a utility's
large industrial and commercial customers and sell excess energy generation to
other utilities.  Although the Energy Act does not require transmission access
to retail customers, pressure for legislation to allow retail wheeling will
continue.  If The Southern Company does not remain a low-cost producer and
provide quality service, the company's retail energy sales growth, as well as
new long-term contracts for energy sales outside the service area, could be
limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

   An important part of the Energy Act was to amend the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA) and allow holding companies to form exempt
wholesale generators and foreign utility companies to sell power largely free
of regulation under PUHCA.  These new entities are able to sell power to
affiliates -- under certain restrictions -- and to own and operate power
generating facilities in other domestic and international markets.  To take
advantage of these opportunities, Southern Electric International (Southern
Electric) -- founded in 1981 -- is focusing on international and domestic 
cogeneration, the independent power market, and the privatization of generating 
facilities in the international market.  During 1993, investments of some $315 
million were made in entities that own and operate generating facilities in 
various international markets.  In the near term, Southern Electric is expected 
to have minimal effect on earnings, but the possibility exists that it could 
be a prime contributor to future earnings growth.

   Demand-side options -- programs that enable customers to lower or alter
their peak energy requirements -- have been implemented by some of the system
operating companies and are a significant part of integrated resource planning.
See Note 3 to the financial statements under "Georgia Power's Demand-Side
Conservation Programs" for information concerning the recovery of certain
costs.  Customers can receive cash incentives for participating in these
programs as well as reduce their energy requirements.  Expansion and increased
utilization of these programs will be contingent upon sharing of cost savings
between the customers and the utility.  Besides promoting energy efficiency,
another benefit of these programs could be the ability to defer the need to
construct baseload generating facilities further into the future.  The ability
to defer major construction projects in conjunction with precertification
approval processes of such projects by the respective state public service
commissions in Alabama, Georgia, and Mississippi will diminish the possible
exposure to prudency disallowances and the resulting impact on earnings.  In
addition, Georgia Power has conducted a competitive bidding process for
additional peaking capacity needed in 1996 and 1997.  To meet expected
requirements for 1996, Georgia Power has filed a plan with the state public
service commission for certification of a four-year purchase power contract and
for an ownership interest in a combustion turbine peaking unit.

   Rates to retail customers served by the system operating companies are
regulated by the respective state public service commissions in Alabama,
Florida, Georgia, and Mississippi.  Rates for Alabama Power and Mississippi
Power are adjusted periodically within certain limitations based on earned
retail rate of return compared with an allowed return.  See Note 3 to the
financial statements for information about other regulatory matters.

   The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates wholesale rate
schedules and power sales contracts that The Southern Company has with its
sales for resale customers.  The FERC currently is reviewing the rate of return
on common equity included in some of these schedules and contracts and may
require such returns to be lowered, possibly retroactively.  See Note 3 to the
financial statements under "FERC Reviews Equity Returns" for additional
information.

   Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air
Act) could reduce earnings if such costs are not fully recovered.  The Clean
Air Act is discussed later under "Environmental Matters."


                                    II-11

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report


NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 112,
Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, which must be effective by
1994.  The new standard requires that all types of benefits provided to former
or inactive employees and their families prior to retirement be accounted for
on an accrual basis.  These benefits include salary continuation, severance
pay, supplemental unemployment benefits, disability-related benefits, job
training, and health and life insurance coverage.  In 1993, The Southern
Company adopted Statement No. 112, with no material effect on the financial
statements.

   The FASB has issued Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities, which is effective in 1994.  Statement No. 115
supersedes FASB Statement No. 12, Accounting for Certain Marketable Securities.
The Southern Company adopted the new rules January 1, 1994, with no material
effect on the financial statements.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

OVERVIEW

The Southern Company's financial condition is now the strongest since the
mid-1980s.  Record levels of performance were set in 1993 related to earnings,
market price of common stock, and energy sold to retail customers.  In January
1994, The Southern Company board of directors increased the common stock
dividend for the third consecutive year, and approved a two-for-one common
stock split in the form of a stock distribution.

   Another major change in The Southern Company's financial condition was gross
property additions of $1.4 billion to utility plant.  The majority of funds
needed for gross property additions since 1990 have been provided from
operating activities, principally from earnings and non-cash charges to income
such as depreciation and deferred income taxes.  The Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows provide additional details.

   On January 1, 1993, The Southern Company changed its methods of accounting
for postretirement benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.  See
notes 2 and 9 to the financial statements, regarding the impact of these
changes.

CAPITAL STRUCTURE

The company achieved a ratio of common equity to total capitalization --
including short-term debt -- of 43.5 percent in 1993, compared with 42.8
percent in 1992 and 41.5 percent in 1991.  The company's goal is to maintain
the common equity ratio generally within a range of 40 percent to 45 percent.

   During 1993, the operating companies sold $2.2 billion of first mortgage
bonds and, through public authorities, $385 million of pollution control
revenue bonds, at a combined weighted interest rate of 6.5 percent.  Preferred
stock of $426 million was issued at a weighted dividend rate of 5.7 percent.
The operating companies continued to reduce financing costs by retiring
higher-cost bonds and preferred stock.  Retirements, including maturities, of
bonds totaled $2.5 billion during 1993, $2.8 billion during 1992, and $1.0
billion during 1991.  Retirements of preferred stock totaled $516 million
during 1993,  $326 million during 1992, and $125 million during 1991.  As a
result, the composite interest rate on long-term debt decreased from 9.2
percent at December 31, 1990, to 7.6 percent at December 31, 1993.  During this
same period, the composite dividend rate on preferred stock declined from 8.5
percent to 6.4 percent.

   In 1993, The Southern Company raised $205 million from the issuance of new
common stock under the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (DRIP) and
the Employee Savings Plan.  At the close of 1993, the company's common stock
had a market value of $22.00 per share, compared with a book value of $11.96
per share.  The market-to-book value ratio was 184 percent at the end of 1993,
compared with 168 percent at year-end 1992 and 156 percent at year-end 1991.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION

The construction program of the operating companies is budgeted at $1.5 billion
for 1994, $1.3 billion for 1995, and $1.5 billion for 1996.  The total is $4.3
billion for the three years.  Actual construction costs may vary from this
estimate because of factors such as changes in environmental regulations;
changes in existing nuclear plants to meet new regulations; revised load
projections; the cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment, and
materials; and the cost of capital.

   The operating companies do not have any baseload generating plants under
construction, and current energy demand forecasts do not require any additional
baseload facilities until well into the future.  However, within the

                                    II-12

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report



service area, the construction of combustion turbine peaking units of
approximately 1,700 megawatts of capacity is planned to be completed by 1996 to
meet increased peak-hour demands.  In addition, significant construction of
transmission and distribution facilities and upgrading of generating plants
will be continuing.

OTHER CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately
$789 million will be required by the end of 1996 for present sinking fund
requirements, redemptions announced, and maturities of long-term debt.  Also,
the operating subsidiaries plan to continue a program to retire higher-cost
debt and preferred stock and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law.  Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- will have a
significant impact on The Southern Company.  Specific reductions in sulfur
dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from fossil-fired generating plants will
be required in two phases.  Phase I compliance must be implemented in 1995 and
affects eight generating plants -- some 10,000 megawatts of capacity or 35
percent of total capacity -- in the Southern electric system.  Phase II
compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired generating plants in the
Southern electric system will be affected.

   Beginning in 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will allocate
annual sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the newly established
allowance trading program.  An emission allowance is the authority to emit one
ton of sulfur dioxide during a calendar year.  The method for allocating
allowances is based on the fossil fuel consumed from 1985 through 1987 for each
affected generating unit.  Emission allowances are transferable and can be
bought, sold, or banked and used in the future.

   The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to minimize the
cost of compliance.  The market for emission allowances is developing slower
than expected.  However, The Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to take advantage of allowances as the market develops.

   The Southern Company expects to achieve Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at
the eight affected plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, and this has
required some equipment upgrades.  This compliance strategy is expected to
result in unused emission allowances being banked for later use.  Additional
construction expenditures are required to install equipment for the control of
nitrogen oxide emissions at these eight plants.  Also, continuous emissions
monitoring equipment would be installed on all fossil-fired units.  Under this
Phase I compliance approach, additional construction expenditures are estimated
to total approximately $275 million through 1995.

   Phase II compliance costs are expected to be higher because requirements are
stricter and all fossil-fired generating plants are affected.  For sulfur
dioxide compliance, The Southern Company could use emission allowances banked
during Phase I, increase fuel switching, install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants, and/or purchase more allowances depending on the
price and availability of allowances.  Also, in Phase II, equipment to control
nitrogen oxide emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired
plants as required to meet anticipated Phase II limits.  Therefore, during the
period 1996 to 2000, compliance could require total construction expenditures
ranging from approximately $450 million to $800 million.  However, the full
impact of Phase II compliance cannot now be determined with certainty, pending
the development of a market for emission allowances, the completion of EPA
regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction technologies.

   An average increase of up to 3 percent in revenue requirements from
customers could be necessary to fully recover the cost of compliance for both
Phase I and Phase II of the Clean Air Act.  Compliance costs include
construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to low-sulfur coal,
and costs related to emission allowances.

   There can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will be recovered.

   Metropolitan Atlanta is classified as a non-attainment area with regard to
the ozone ambient air quality standards.  Title I of the Clean Air Act requires
the state of Georgia to conduct specific studies and establish new control
rules by November 1994 -- affecting sources of nitrogen oxides and volatile
organic compounds -- to achieve attainment by 1999.  As the required first
step, the state has issued rules for the application of reasonably available
control technology to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by May 31, 1995.  The
results of these new rules require nitrogen oxide controls, above Title IV





                                    II-13

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report



requirements, on some Georgia Power plants.  Final attainment rules, based on
modeling studies, could require installation of additional controls for
nitrogen oxide emissions as early as 1997.  Compliance with any new rules could
result in significant additional costs.  The impact of new rules will depend on
the development and implementation of such rules.

   Title III of the Clean Air Act requires a multi-year EPA study of power
plant emissions of hazardous air pollutants.  The study will serve as the basis
for a decision on whether additional regulatory control of these substances is
warranted.  Compliance with any new control standards could result in
significant additional costs.  The impact of new standards -- if any -- will
depend on the development and implementation of applicable regulations.

   The EPA continues to evaluate the need for a new short-term ambient air
quality standard for sulfur dioxide.  Preliminary results from an EPA study on
the impact of a new standard indicate that a number of plants could be required
to install sulfur dioxide controls.  These controls would be in addition to the
controls already required to meet the acid rain provision of the Clean Air Act.
The EPA is expected to take some action on this issue in 1994.  The impact of
any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the standard and cannot be
determined at this time.

   In addition, the EPA is evaluating the need to revise the ambient air
quality standards for particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and ozone.  The
impact of any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the standard and
cannot be determined at this time.

   In 1994 or 1995, the EPA is expected to issue revised rules on air quality
control regulations related to stack height requirements of the Clean Air Act.
The full impact of the final rules cannot be determined at this time, pending
their development and implementation.

   In 1993, the EPA issued a ruling confirming the non-hazardous status of coal
ash.  However, the EPA has until 1998 to classify co-managed utility wastes --
coal ash and other utility wastes -- as either non-hazardous or hazardous.  If
the EPA classifies the co-managed wastes as hazardous, then substantial
additional costs for the management of such wastes may be required.  The full
impact of any change in the regulatory status will depend on the subsequent
development of co-managed waste requirements.

   The Southern Company must comply with other environmental laws and
regulations that cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste.  Under
these various laws and regulations, the company could incur costs to clean up
properties currently or previously owned.  The company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required clean-up costs and has recognized in the
financial statements costs to clean up known sites.

   Several major pieces of environmental legislation are in the process of
being reauthorized or amended by Congress.  These include:  the Clean Water
Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act;
and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  Changes to these laws could
affect many areas of The Southern Company's operations.  The full impact of
these requirements cannot be determined at this time, pending the development
and implementation of applicable regulations.

   Compliance with possible new legislation related to global climate change,
electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns could
significantly affect The Southern Company.  The impact of new legislation -- if
any -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of
applicable regulations.  In addition, the potential for lawsuits alleging
damages caused by electromagnetic fields exists.

SOURCES OF CAPITAL

In early 1994, The Southern Company sold -- through a public offering -- common
stock with proceeds totaling $120 million.  The company may require additional
equity capital during the remainder of 1994.  The amount and timing of
additional equity capital to be raised in 1994 -- as well as in subsequent
years -- will be contingent on The Southern Company's investment opportunities.
Equity capital can be provided from any combination of public offerings,
private placements, or the company's stock plans.  Any portion of the common
stock required during 1994 for the DRIP and the employee stock plans that is
not provided from the issuance of new stock will be acquired on the open market
in accordance with the terms of such plans.

   The operating subsidiaries plan to obtain the funds required for
construction and other purposes from sources similar to those used in the past.
However, the type and timing of any financings -- if needed -- will depend on
market conditions and regulatory approval.





                                    II-14

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




   Completing the sale of Unit 4 of Plant Scherer will provide some $260
million of cash during the years 1994 and 1995.

   As required by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Alabama Power and Georgia
Power established external sinking funds for nuclear decommissioning costs.
For 1994 through 2000, the combined amount to be funded for both Alabama Power
and Georgia Power totals $36 million annually.  The cumulative effect of
funding over this period will diminish internally funded capital and may
require capital from other sources.  For additional information concerning
nuclear decommissioning costs, see Note 1 to the financial statements under
"Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning."

   To meet short-term cash needs and contingencies, the system companies had
approximately $178 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1.1 billion of
unused credit arrangements with banks at the beginning of 1994.

   To issue additional first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, the operating
companies must comply with certain earnings coverage requirements designated in
their mortgage indentures and corporate charters.  The ability to issue
securities in the future will depend on coverages at that time.  The coverage
ratios were, at the end of the respective years, as follows:


*Savannah Electric's requirement is 2.50.





                                    II-15

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report







CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS                             
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991                    

                                                                 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.






                                    II-16

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




                                                            
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                    II-17

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1993, and 1992
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report





                                                           

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these balance sheets.





                                    II-18

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (continued)
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




                                                          

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these balance sheets.





                                    II-19

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




                                                                     
                                                                             




                                    II-20

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION  (continued)
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report





  

                                                                    
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.            





                                    II-21

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report


1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

GENERAL

The Southern Company is the parent company of five operating companies, a
system service company, Southern Electric International (Southern Electric),
Southern Nuclear Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), and various other
subsidiaries related to foreign utility operations and domestic non-utility
operations.  At this time, the operations of the other subsidiaries are not
material.  The operating companies provide electric service in four
Southeastern states.  Contracts among the companies -- dealing with jointly
owned generating facilities, interconnecting transmission lines, and the
exchange of electric power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC) or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The system
service company provides, at cost, specialized services to The Southern Company
and to the subsidiary companies.  Southern Electric designs, builds, owns, and
operates power production facilities and provides a broad range of technical
services to industrial companies and utilities in the United States and a
number of international markets.  Southern Nuclear provides services to The
Southern Company's nuclear power plants.

   The Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA).  Both the company and its
subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA.  The
operating companies also are subject to regulation by the FERC and their
respective state regulatory commissions.  The companies follow generally
accepted accounting principles and comply with the accounting policies and
practices prescribed by their respective commissions.

   All material intercompany items have been eliminated in consolidation.
Consolidated retained earnings at December 31, 1993, include $2.6 billion of
undistributed retained earnings of subsidiaries.

   Certain prior years' data presented in the consolidated financial statements
have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

REVENUES AND FUEL COSTS

The operating companies accrue revenues for service rendered but unbilled at
the end of each fiscal period.  Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used.
The operating companies' electric rates include provisions to adjust billings
for fluctuations in fuel and the energy component of purchased power costs.
Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs and
amounts actually recovered in current rates.

   Fuel expense includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear fuel and a
charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent
nuclear fuel.  Total charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted
to $137 million in 1993, $132 million in 1992, and $162 million in 1991.
Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracts with the U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE) that provide for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel,
which was scheduled to begin in 1998.  However, the actual year this service
will begin is uncertain.  Sufficient storage capacity currently is available to
permit operation into 2003 at Plant Hatch, into 2009 at Plant Vogtle, and into
2012 and 2014 at Plant Farley units 1 and 2, respectively.

   Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the establishment in 1993 of a
Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is to be
funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants.  This
assessment will be paid over a 15-year period, which began in 1993.  This fund
will be used by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities.  The law provides that utilities will
recover these payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense.  Georgia
Power -- based on its ownership interests -- and Alabama Power currently
estimate their liability under this law to be approximately $39 million and $46
million, respectively.  These obligations are recorded in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets.

DEPRECIATION AND NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
3.3 percent in 1993, 1992, and 1991.  When property subject to depreciation is
retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of business, its cost --
together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is charged to the
accumulated provision for depreciation.  Minor items of property included in
the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property unit is
retired.  Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected costs of
decommissioning nuclear facilities.





                                    II-22

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




   In 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) adopted regulations
requiring all licensees operating commercial power reactors to establish a plan
for providing, with reasonable assurance, funds for decommissioning.
Reasonable assurance may be in the form of an external sinking fund, a surety
method, or prepayment.  Alabama Power and Georgia Power have established
external sinking funds to comply with the NRC's regulations.  Prior to the
enactment of these regulations, Alabama Power and Georgia Power had reserved
nuclear decommissioning costs.  The NRC's minimum external funding requirements
are based on a generic estimate of the cost to decommission the radioactive
portions of a nuclear unit based on the size and type of reactor.  Alabama
Power and Georgia Power have filed plans with the NRC to ensure that -- over
time -- the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will provide the
minimum funding amounts prescribed by the NRC.

   The estimated cost of decommissioning and the amounts being recovered
through rates at December 31, 1993, for Alabama Power's Plant Farley and
Georgia Power's plants Hatch and Vogtle -- based on its ownership interests --
were as follows:



   The amounts in the internal reserve are being transferred into the external
trust fund over a set period of time as approved by the respective state public
service commissions.

   The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service.  The actual decommissioning costs may vary
from the above estimates because of regulatory requirements, changes in
technology, and changes in costs of labor, materials, and equipment.  

PLANT VOGTLE PHASE-IN PLANS

In 1987 and 1989, the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC) ordered that the
allowed costs of Plant Vogtle, a two-unit nuclear facility of which Georgia
Power owns 45.7 percent, be phased into rates under plans that meet the
requirements of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 92,
Accounting for Phase-In Plans.  Under these plans, Georgia Power deferred
financing costs and depreciation expense until the allowed investment was fully
reflected in rates as of October 1991.  In 1991, the GPSC modified the Plant
Vogtle phase-in plan to begin earlier amortization of the costs deferred under
the plan.  Also, the GPSC levelized capacity buyback expense from co-owners of
Plant Vogtle.  See Note 3 for additional information regarding Georgia Power's
1991 rate order.  Previously, pursuant to two separate interim accounting
orders by the GPSC, Georgia Power deferred substantially all operating expenses
and financing costs related to Plant Vogtle.  Units 1 and 2 began commercial
operation in May 1987 and May 1989, respectively.  The accounting orders were
for the periods from the date of each unit's commercial operation until October
1987 and 1989, respectively.  Under phase-in plans and accounting orders from
the GPSC, Georgia Power deferred and began amortizing the costs  --  recovered
through rates -- related to Plant Vogtle as follows:


   The unrecovered balance above includes approximately $160 million related
to the adoption in 1993 of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.
See Note 9 for information about Statement No. 109.





                                    II-23


NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




   Each GPSC order calls for recovery of deferred costs within 10 years.  Also,
the orders authorized Georgia Power to impute a return similar to allowance for
funds used during construction (AFUDC) on its investment in Plant Vogtle units
1 and 2 after the units began commercial operation.  These deferred returns are
included in the above amounts, except for the equity component in the case of
the Unit 2 accounting order.

INCOME TAXES

The companies provide deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences.  Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

   In years prior to 1993, income taxes were accounted for and reported under
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 11.  Effective January 1, 1993, The
Southern Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.
Statement No. 109 required, among other things, conversion to the liability
method of accounting for accumulated deferred income taxes.  See Note 9 for
additional information about Statement No. 109.

AFUDC AND DEFERRED RETURN

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities.  While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense.  The composite rates used by the companies to calculate
AFUDC during the years 1991 through 1993 ranged from a before-income-tax rate
of 4.9 percent to 11.4 percent.  Deferred income taxes related to capitalized
debt cost were $5 million, $4 million, and $7 million in 1993, 1992, and 1991,
respectively.  After Plant Vogtle units 1 and 2 began commercial operation in
1987 and 1989, respectively, Georgia Power imputed a deferred return similar to
AFUDC on its investment in the units under the short-term cost deferrals and
phase-in plans, as discussed earlier.  AFUDC and the deferred return, net of
income tax, as a percent of consolidated net income were 1.7 percent in 1993,
1.8 percent in 1992, and 6.0 percent in 1991.  The deferred return was
discontinued in October 1991 after the allowed investment in Plant Vogtle was
fully reflected in rates.

UTILITY PLANT

Utility plant is stated at original cost less regulatory disallowances.
Original cost includes:  materials; labor; minor items of property; appropriate
administrative and general costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes,
pensions, and other benefits; and the estimated cost of funds used during
construction.  The cost of maintenance, repairs, and replacement of minor items
of property is charged to maintenance expense.  The cost of replacements of
property (exclusive of minor items of property) is charged to utility plant.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

For purposes of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash
investments are considered cash equivalents.  Temporary cash investments are
securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosure About Fair Value of
Financial Instruments, all financial instruments of The Southern Company -- for
which the carrying amount does not approximate fair value -- are shown in the
table below at December 31:



   The fair values of nuclear decommissioning trusts and investment securities
were based on listed closing market prices.  The fair values for long-term debt
and preferred





                                    II-24

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report

stock subject to mandatory redemption were based on either closing market
prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials.  Materials are charged to
inventory when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as
appropriate, when installed.  In 1992, Georgia Power converted to the inventory
method of accounting for certain emergency spare parts.  This conversion
resulted in a regulatory liability that will be amortized as a credit to income
over approximately four years.  This conversion will not have a material effect
on net income.

VACATION PAY

The operating companies' employees earn their vacation in one year and take it
in the subsequent year.  However, for ratemaking purposes, vacation pay is
recognized as an allowable expense only when paid.  Consistent with this
ratemaking treatment, the companies accrue a current liability for earned
vacation pay and record a current asset representing the future recoverability
of this cost.  The amount was $73 million and $70 million at December 31, 1993
and 1992, respectively.  In 1994, an estimated 71 percent of the 1993 deferred
vacation cost will be expensed, and the balance will be charged to construction
and other accounts.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

PENSION PLAN

The system companies have defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension
plans that cover substantially all regular employees.  Benefits are based on
the greater of amounts resulting from two different formulas:  years of service
and final average pay or years of service and a flat-dollar benefit.
Primarily, the companies use the "entry age normal method with a frozen initial
liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject to limitations under
federal income tax regulations.  Amounts funded to the pension fund are
primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities.  FASB Statement No.
87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the "projected unit
credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The system companies also provide certain medical care and life insurance
benefits for retired employees.  Substantially all employees may become
eligible for these benefits when they retire.  A qualified trust for medical
benefits has been established for funding amounts to the extent deductible
under federal income tax regulations. Amounts funded are primarily invested in
debt and equity securities.  Accrued costs of life insurance benefits, other
than current cash payments for retirees, currently are not being funded.

   Effective January 1, 1993, the system companies adopted FASB Statement No.
106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, on
a prospective basis.  Statement No. 106 requires that medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis
using a specified actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."  In October
1993, the GPSC ordered Georgia Power to phase in the adoption of Statement No.
106 to cost of service over a five-year period, whereby one-fifth of the
additional costs would be expensed in 1993 and the remaining costs would be
deferred.  An additional one-fifth of the costs would be expensed each
succeeding year until the costs are fully reflected in cost of service in 1997.
The costs deferred during the five-year period will be amortized to expense
over a 15-year period beginning in 1998.  As a result of regulatory treatment
allowed by the operating companies' respective public service commissions, the
adoption of Statement No. 106 did not have a material impact on consolidated
net income.

   Prior to 1993, the system companies, except for Georgia Power and Savannah
Electric, recognized these benefit costs on an accrual basis using the
"aggregate cost" actuarial method, which spreads the expected cost of such
benefits over the remaining periods of employees' service as a level percentage
of payroll costs.  Consistent with regulatory treatment in these years, Georgia
Power and Savannah Electric recognized these costs on a cash basis as payments
were made.  The total costs of such benefits recognized by system companies in
1992 and 1991 were $42 million and $36 million, respectively.

STATUS AND COST OF BENEFITS

Shown in the following tables are actuarial results and assumptions for pension
and postretirement medical and life insurance benefits as computed under the
requirements of FASB Statement Nos. 87 and 106, respectively.  Retiree medical
and life insurance information is shown only for 1993 because Statement



                                    II-25

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report


No. 106 was adopted as of January 1, 1993, on a prospective basis.  The funded
status of the plans at December 31 was as follows:





   The weighted average rates assumed in the above
actuarial calculations were:



   An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
medical benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate
of 11.3 percent for 1993, decreasing gradually to 6.0 percent through the year
2000 and remaining at that level thereafter.  An annual increase in the assumed
medical care cost trend rate by 1 percent would increase the accumulated
medical benefit obligation at December 31, 1993, by $129 million and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net retiree
medical cost by $14 million.

   Components of the plans' net cost are shown below:

                                    

   Of the above net pension amounts, pension income of $9 million in 1993 and
pension expense of $2 million in 1992 and $11 million in 1991 were recorded in
operating expenses, and the remainder was recorded in construction and other
accounts.




   Of the above net postretirement medical and life insurance costs recorded in
1993, $64 million was charged to operating expenses, $21 million was deferred,
and the remainder was charged to construction and other accounts.





                                    II-26

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report

WORK FORCE REDUCTION PROGRAMS

The system companies have incurred additional costs for work force reduction
programs.  The costs related to these programs were $35 million, $37 million,
and $72 million for the years 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.  A portion of
the cost of these programs was deferred and is being amortized in accordance
with regulatory treatment.  The unamortized balance of these costs was $19
million at December 31, 1993.

3.  LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

RETAIL RATEPAYERS' SUIT CONCLUDED

In March 1993, several retail ratepayers of Georgia Power filed a civil
complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, against Georgia
Power, The Southern Company, the system service company, and Arthur Andersen &
Co.  The complaint alleged that Georgia Power obtained excessive rate increases
by improper accounting for spare parts and sought actual damages estimated by
the plaintiffs to be in excess of $60 million -- plus treble and punitive 
damages -- for alleged violations of the Georgia Racketeer Influenced and 
Corrupt Organizations Act and other state statutes, statutory and common law 
fraud, and negligence.  These state law allegations were substantially the 
same as those included in a 1989 suit brought in federal district court in 
Georgia.  That suit and similar ones filed in Alabama, Florida, and 
Mississippi federal courts were subsequently dismissed.

   The defendants' motions to dismiss the current complaint were granted by the
Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, in July 1993.  In January 1994, the
plaintiffs' appeal of the dismissal to the Supreme Court of Georgia was
rejected, and this matter is concluded.

STOCKHOLDER SUIT

In April 1991, two Southern Company stockholders filed a derivative action suit
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia against certain
current and former directors and officers of The Southern Company.  The suit
alleges violations of the Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO) by officers and breaches of fiduciary duty and gross
negligence by all defendants resulting from alleged fraudulent accounting for
spare parts, illegal political campaign contributions, violations of federal
securities laws involving misrepresentations and omissions in SEC filings, and
concealment of the foregoing acts.  The complaint seeks damages -- including
treble damages pursuant to RICO -- in an unspecified amount, which if awarded,
would be payable to The Southern Company.  The plaintiffs' amended complaint
was dismissed by the court in March 1992.  The court ruled the plaintiffs had
failed to present adequately their allegation that The Southern Company board
of directors' refusal of an earlier demand by the plaintiffs was wrongful.  The
plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
11th Circuit.

ALABAMA POWER HEAT PUMP FINANCING SUIT

In September 1990, two customers of Alabama Power filed a civil complaint in
the Circuit Court of Shelby County, Alabama, against Alabama Power seeking to
represent all persons who, prior to June 23, 1989, entered into agreements with
Alabama Power for the financing of heat pumps and other merchandise purchased
from vendors other than Alabama Power.  The plaintiffs contended that Alabama
Power was required to obtain a license under the Alabama Consumer Finance Act
to engage in the business of making consumer loans.  The plaintiffs were
seeking an order declaring these agreements null and void and requiring Alabama
Power to refund all payments -- principal and interest -- made under these
agreements. The aggregate amount under these agreements, together with interest
paid, currently is estimated to be $40 million.

   In June 1993, the court ordered Alabama Power to refund or forfeit interest
of approximately $10 million because of Alabama Power's failure to obtain such
license.  However, the court's order did not require any refund or forfeiture
with respect to any principal payments under the agreements at issue.  Alabama
Power has appealed the court's order to the Supreme Court of Alabama.

   The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse effect
on the company's financial statements.

GULF POWER COAL BARGE TRANSPORTATION SUIT

In 1993, a complaint against Gulf Power and the system service company was
filed in federal district court in Ohio by two companies with which Gulf Power
had contracted for the transportation by barge for certain Gulf Power coal
supplies.  The complaint alleges breach of the contract by Gulf Power and seeks
damages estimated by the plaintiffs to be in excess of $85 million.



                                    II-27

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report

   The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse effect
on the company's financial statements.

ALABAMA POWER RATE ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURES

In November 1982, the Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC) adopted rates
that provide for periodic adjustments based upon Alabama Power's earned return
on end-of-period retail common equity.  The rates also provide for adjustments
to recognize the placing of new generating facilities in retail service.  Both
increases and decreases have been placed into effect since the adoption of
these rates.  The rate adjustment procedures allow a return on common equity
range of 13.0 percent to 14.5 percent and limit increases or decreases in rates
to 4 percent in any calendar year.

   The APSC issued an order in December 1991 that reduced a scheduled 2.03
percent annual increase in rates to 1.03 percent, effective January 1992.  The
1 percent reduction will remain in effect through 1994. The rate reduction was
designed to refund to retail ratepayers a portion of the benefits from a
settled contract dispute with Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States).  The
present value of this portion of the settlement -- amounting to some $60
million -- is being amortized to income to offset the rate reduction in
accordance with the APSC's rate order. See Note 8 for additional information
concerning the Gulf States settlement.

   Also in the December 1991 rate order, the APSC reaffirmed its satisfaction
with the ratemaking mechanism and stated that it did not foresee any further
review or changes in the procedures until after 1994.  The ratemaking
procedures will remain in effect after 1994 unless the APSC votes to modify or
discontinue them.

GEORGIA POWER'S DEMAND-SIDE CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

In October 1993, a Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, judge ruled that
rate riders previously approved by the GPSC for recovery of Georgia Power's
costs incurred in connection with demand-side conservation programs were
unlawful.  The judge held that the GPSC lacked statutory authority to approve
such rate riders except through general rate case proceedings and that those
procedures had not been followed.  Georgia Power suspended collection of the
demand-side conservation costs and appealed the court's decision to the Georgia
Court of Appeals.  In December 1993, the GPSC approved Georgia Power's request
for an accounting order allowing Georgia Power to defer all current unrecovered
and future costs related to these programs until the superior court's decision
is reversed or until the next general rate case proceedings.  An association of
industrial customers has filed a petition for review of the accounting order in
superior court.  Georgia Power's costs related to these conservation programs
through 1993 were $60 million, of which $15 million has been collected and the
remainder deferred.  The estimated costs, assuming no change in the programs
certified by the GPSC, are $38 million in 1994 and $40 million in 1995.

   The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse effect
on the company's financial statements.

GEORGIA POWER 1991 RATE ORDER; PHASE-IN PLAN MODIFICATIONS

Georgia Power received a rate order in 1991 from the GPSC that modified the
Plant Vogtle phase-in plans to begin earlier amortization of the costs deferred
under the plans.  The amortization period began October 1991 -- rather than
October 1994 as originally scheduled -- and extends through September 1999.  In
addition, the GPSC ordered the levelization of capacity buyback expense from
the co-owners of Plant Vogtle over a six-year period beginning October 1991.
This results in net cost deferrals during the first three years and subsequent
amortization of the deferred amounts in the last three years.

MISSISSIPPI POWER RETAIL RATE ADJUSTMENT PLAN

Mississippi Power's retail base rates have been set under a Performance
Evaluation Plan (PEP) since 1986 with various modifications in 1991 and the
latest in 1994.  In 1993, the Mississippi Public Service Commission (MPSC)
ordered Mississippi Power to review and propose changes that would enhance the
plan.  Mississippi Power filed a revised plan, and the MPSC approved PEP-2 on
January 4, 1994.  Under PEP-2, Mississippi Power's rate of return will be
measured on retail net investment rather than on common equity, as previously
calculated.  Also, the number of indicators used to evaluate Mississippi
Power's performance was reduced to three with emphasis on price and service to
the customer.  In addition, PEP-2 provides for the sharing of rate adjustments
based on low rates and on the performance rating.  The evaluation periods for
PEP-2 are semiannual.  Any change in rates is limited to 2 percent of retail
revenues per period before a public hearing is required.  PEP-2 will remain in
effect until the MPSC modifies or terminates the plan.





                                    II-28

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report

FERC REVIEWS EQUITY RETURNS

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater.  The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power, and other similar contracts.
Any changes in the rate of return on common equity that may occur as a result
of this proceeding would be effective 60 days after a proper notice of the
proceeding is published.  A notice was published on May 10, 1991.

   In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest.  The FERC
staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the
matter remains pending before the FERC.

   The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse effect
on the company's financial statements.

4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

GENERAL

The operating companies are engaged in continuous construction programs,
currently estimated to total some $1.5 billion in 1994, $1.3 billion in 1995,
and $1.5 billion in 1996.  These estimates include AFUDC of $34 million in
1994, $41 million in 1995, and $35 million in 1996.  The construction programs
are subject to periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may
vary from the above estimates because of numerous factors.  These factors
include changes in business conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes
in environmental regulations; changes in existing nuclear plants to meet new
regulatory requirements; increasing costs of labor, equipment, and materials;
and cost of capital.  At December 31, 1993, significant purchase commitments
were outstanding in connection with the construction program.  The operating
companies do not have any new baseload generating plants under construction.
However, within the service area, the construction of combustion turbine
peaking units of approximately 1,700 megawatts is planned to be completed by
1996.  In addition, significant construction will continue related to
transmission and distribution facilities and the upgrading and extension of the
useful lives of generating plants.

   See Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Environmental Matters" for
information on the impact of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and other
environmental matters.

ROCKY MOUNTAIN PROJECT STATUS

In its 1985 financing order, the GPSC concluded that completion of the Rocky
Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric project in 1991 was not economically
justifiable and reasonable and withheld authorization for Georgia Power to
spend funds from approved securities issuances on that project.  In 1988,
Georgia Power and Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC) entered into a joint
ownership agreement for OPC to assume responsibility for the construction and
operation of the project, as discussed in Note 6.  However, full recovery of
Georgia Power's costs depends on the GPSC's treatment of the project's cost and
disposition of the project's capacity output.  In the event Georgia Power
cannot demonstrate to the GPSC the project's economic viability based on
current ownership, construction schedule, and costs, then part or all of such
costs may have to be written off.  At December 31, 1993, Georgia Power's
investment in the project amounted to approximately $197 million.  AFUDC
accrued on the Rocky Mountain project has not been credited to income or
included in the project cost since December 1985.  If accrual of AFUDC is not
resumed, Georgia Power's portion of the estimated total plant additions at
completion would be approximately $199 million.  The plant is currently
scheduled to begin commercial operation in 1995.  Georgia Power has held
preliminary discussions with other parties regarding the potential disposition
of its remaining interest in the project.

   The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

5.  FINANCING, INVESTMENT, AND
    COMMITMENTS

GENERAL

In early 1994, The Southern Company sold -- through a public offering -- 5.6
million shares of common stock with proceeds totaling $120 million.  The
company may require additional equity capital during the remainder of 1994.
The amount and timing of additional equity capital to be raised in 1994 -- as
well as in subsequent years -- will be contingent on The Southern Company's
investment opportunities.  Equity capital can be provided from any combination
of public offerings, private placements, or the company's stock plans.



                                    II-29

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report

   To the extent possible, the operating companies' construction programs are
expected to be financed primarily from internal sources.  Short-term debt will
be utilized when necessary; the amounts available are discussed below.  The
subsidiary companies may issue additional long-term debt and preferred stock
primarily for the purposes of debt maturities and for redeeming higher-cost
securities.

FOREIGN UTILITY OPERATIONS

During 1993, The Southern Company made investments of approximately $315
million in utilities that own and operate generating facilities in various
foreign markets.  The consolidated financial statements reflect these
investments in majority-owned subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and other
investments on an equity basis.

BANK CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS

At the beginning of 1994, unused credit arrangements with banks totaled $1.1
billion, of which approximately $500 million expires at various times during
1994 and 1995; $130 million expires at May 1, 1996; $400 million expires at
June 30, 1996; and $70 million expires at December 1, 1996.

   Georgia Power's revolving credit agreements of $150 million, of which $130
million remained unused as of December 31, 1993, expire May 1, 1996.  During
the term of these agreements, Georgia Power may convert short-term borrowings
into term loans, payable in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the first
installment due at the end of the first calendar quarter after the applicable
termination date or at an earlier date at Georgia Power's option.  In
connection with these credit arrangements, Georgia Power agrees to pay
commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments or to maintain
compensating balances with the banks.

   The $400 million expiring June 30, 1996, is under revolving credit
arrangements with several banks providing The Southern Company, Alabama Power,
and Georgia Power up to the total credit amount of $400 million.  To provide
liquidity support to commercial paper programs, $135 million and $165 million
of the $400 million available credit are currently dedicated to the exclusive
use of Alabama Power and Georgia Power, respectively.  During the term of these
agreements, short-term borrowings may be converted into term loans, payable in
12 equal quarterly installments, with the first installment due at the end of
the first calendar quarter after the applicable termination date or at an
earlier date at the companies' option.  In addition, these agreements require
payment of commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments or
the maintenance of compensating balances with the banks.

   Mississippi Power has $70 million of revolving credit agreements expiring
December 1, 1996.  These agreements allow short-term borrowings to be converted
into term loans, payable in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the first
installment due at the end of the first calendar quarter after the applicable
termination date or at an earlier date at Mississippi Power's option.  In
connection with these credit arrangements, Mississippi Power agrees to pay
commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments or to maintain
compensating balances with the banks.

   Savannah Electric has $20 million of revolving credit arrangements expiring
December 31, 1995.  These agreements allow short-term borrowings to be
converted into term loans, payable in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the
first installment due at the end of the first calendar quarter after the
applicable termination date or at an earlier date at Savannah Electric's
option.  In connection with these credit arrangements, Savannah Electric agrees
to pay commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments.

   In connection with all other lines of credit, the companies have the option
of paying fees or maintaining compensating balances, which are substantially
all the cash of the companies except for daily working funds and similar items.
These balances are not legally restricted from withdrawal.

   In addition, the companies from time to time borrow under uncommitted lines
of credit with banks, and in the case of Alabama Power and Georgia Power,
through commercial paper programs that have the liquidity support of committed
bank credit arrangements.

ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN

The operating companies' mortgages, which secure the first mortgage bonds
issued by the companies, constitute a direct first lien on substantially all of
the companies' respective fixed property and franchises.

FUEL COMMITMENTS

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of the system's generating plants,
the subsidiary companies have



                                    II-30

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report

entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of fossil and
nuclear fuel.  In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for price
escalations, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments.  Total
estimated long-term obligations were approximately $15 billion at December 31,
1993.  Additional commitments for coal and nuclear fuel will be required in the
future to supply the operating companies' fuel needs.

   To take advantage of lower-cost coal supplies, agreements were reached in
1986 for the payment of $121 million to terminate two contracts for the supply
of coal to Plant Daniel, which is jointly owned by Gulf Power and Mississippi
Power.  Also, in March 1988, Gulf Power made an advance payment of $60 million
to a coal supplier under an agreement to lower the cost of future coal
purchased under an existing contract.  These amounts are being amortized to
expense.  The remaining unamortized amount included in deferred charges at
December 31, 1993, was $70 million.

OPERATING LEASES

The operating companies have entered into coal rail car rental agreements with
various terms and expiration dates.  Rental expense totaled $11 million, $9
million, and $7 million for 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.  At December
31, 1993, estimated minimum rental commitments for noncancelable operating
leases were as follows:



6. FACILITY SALES AND JOINT OWNERSHIP
   AGREEMENTS

In 1992, Alabama Power sold an undivided interest in units 1 and 2 of Plant
Miller and related facilities to Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc.

   Since 1975, Georgia Power has sold undivided interests in plants Vogtle,
Hatch, Scherer, and Wansley in varying amounts, together with transmission
facilities, to OPC, the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia (MEAG), and the
city of Dalton, Georgia.  Georgia Power has completed two of four separate
transactions to sell Unit 4 of Plant Scherer to two Florida utilities.  See
Note 7 for additional information concerning these sales.  In addition, Georgia
Power has entered into a joint ownership agreement with OPC with respect to the
Rocky Mountain project, as discussed later.

   At December 31, 1993, Alabama Power's and Georgia Power's ownership and
investment (exclusive of nuclear fuel) in jointly owned facilities with the
above entities were as follows:

                                                     
*Estimated ownership at date of completion.

   Georgia Power and OPC have entered into a joint ownership agreement
regarding the 848-megawatt Rocky Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric project.
Under the agreement, Georgia Power will retain its present investment in the
project and OPC will finance, complete, and operate the facility.  Upon
completion, Georgia Power will own an undivided interest in the project equal
to the proportion its investment bears to the total investment in the project
(excluding each party's cost of funds and ad valorem taxes).  Based on current
cost estimates, Georgia Power's final ownership is estimated at approximately
25 percent of the project at completion.  Georgia Power has held preliminary
discussions with other parties regarding the potential disposition of its
remaining interest in the project.





                                    II-31

NOTES (continued)
THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES 1993 ANNUAL REPORT



     Alabama Power and Georgia Power have contracted to operate and maintain
the jointly owned facilities -- except for the Rocky Mountain project -- as
agents for their respective co-owners.  The companies' proportionate share of
their plant operating expenses is included in the corresponding operating
expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

   In connection with a joint ownership arrangement at Plant Vogtle, Georgia
Power has remaining commitments to purchase declining fractions of OPC's and
MEAG's capacity and energy from this plant for periods of up to 10 years
following commercial operation (and, with regard to a portion of the 5 percent
additional interest in Plant Vogtle owned by MEAG, until the latter of the
retirement of the plant or the latest stated maturity date of MEAG's bonds
issued to finance such ownership interest).  The payments for such capacity are
required whether any capacity is available.  The energy cost of these purchases
is a function of each unit's variable operating costs.  Except as noted below,
the cost of such capacity and energy is included in purchased power in the
Consolidated Statements of Income.  Capacity payments totaled $183 million,
$289 million, and $320 million, for 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.
Projected capacity payments for the next five years are as follows:  $132
million in 1994; $77 million in 1995; $70 million in 1996; $59 million in 1997;
and $59 million in 1998.  Also, a portion of the above capacity payments
relates to Plant Vogtle costs that were written off after being disallowed for
retail ratemaking purposes.

   In 1991, the GPSC ordered that the Plant Vogtle capacity buyback expense be
levelized over a six-year period.  The amounts deferred and not expensed in the
year paid totaled $38 million in 1993, $100 million in 1992, and $30 million in
1991.  The projected net amount to be deferred in 1994 is $1 million.  The
projected net amortization of the deferred expense is $49 million in 1995, $62
million in 1996, and $57 million in 1997.

7.   PLANNED SALES OF INTEREST IN PLANT
     SCHERER

Georgia Power has completed two of four separate transactions to sell Unit 4 of
Plant Scherer to Florida Power & Light Company (FP&L) and Jacksonville Electric
Authority (JEA) for a total price of approximately $806 million, including any
gains on these transactions.  FP&L would eventually own approximately 76.4
percent of the unit, with JEA owning the remainder.  The capacity from this
unit was previously dedicated to long-term power sales contracts with Gulf
States that were suspended in 1988.  Georgia Power will continue to operate the
unit.

   The completed and scheduled remaining transactions are as follows:

                                 

   Plant Scherer -- a jointly owned coal-fired generating plant -- has four
units with a total capacity of 3,272 megawatts.  Unit 4 was completed in 1989.
See Note 6 for information regarding current plant ownership.

8.    LONG-TERM POWER SALES
      AGREEMENTS

GENERAL

The operating subsidiaries of The Southern Company have entered into long-term
contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain
non-affiliated utilities located outside the system's service area.  Certain of
these agreements are non-firm and are based on capacity of the system in
general.  Other agreements are firm and pertain to capacity related to specific
generating units.  Because the energy is generally sold at cost under these
agreements, revenues from capacity sales primarily affect profitability.  The
capacity revenues have been as follows:



   Long-term non-firm power of 400 megawatts was sold in 1993 to Florida Power
Corporation (FPC).  In January 1994, this amount decreased to 200 megawatts,
and the contract will expire at year-end.

   Unit power from specific generating plants is currently being sold to FP&L,
FPC, JEA, and the city of Tallahassee, Florida.  Under these agreements, an
average


                                    II-32

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




of 1,700 megawatts of capacity is scheduled to be sold during 1994 and 1995.
Thereafter, these sales will decline to some 1,600 megawatts and remain at that
approximate level -- unless reduced by FP&L, FPC, and JEA for the periods after
1999 -- until the expiration of the contracts in 2010.

GULF STATES SETTLEMENT COMPLETED

On November 7, 1991, subsidiaries of The Southern Company entered into a
settlement agreement with Gulf States that resolved litigation between the
companies that had been pending since 1986 and arose out of a dispute over
certain unit power and other long-term power sales contracts.  In 1993, all
remaining terms and obligations of the settlement agreement were satisfied.

   Based on the value of the settlement proceeds received -- less the amounts
to be refunded to customers and the amounts previously included in income --
The Southern Company recorded an increase in consolidated net income of $114
million, or 18 cents per share, in November 1991.   With respect to Alabama
Power's portion of proceeds received in 1991, see Note 3 concerning the
regulatory treatment of amounts being refunded to retail customers over a
three-year period.

9.  INCOME TAXES

Effective January 1, 1993, The Southern Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes.  The adoption of Statement No. 109 resulted in
cumulative adjustments that had no material effect on consolidated net income.
The adoption also resulted in the recording of additional deferred income taxes
and related assets and liabilities.  The related assets of $1.5 billion are
revenues to be received from customers.  These assets are attributable to tax
benefits flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to
capitalized AFUDC.  The related liabilities of $1.1 billion are revenues to be
refunded to customers.  These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes
previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.  Additionally, deferred income taxes
related to accelerated tax depreciation previously shown as a reduction to
utility plant were reclassified.

    Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:




    The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities, are as follows:







                                    II-33

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report



   Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Credits amortized in
this manner amounted to $29 million in 1993, $41 million in 1992, and $48
million in 1991.  At December 31, 1993, all investment tax credits available to
reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

   A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:



   The Southern Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income
tax return.  Under a joint consolidated income tax agreement, each company's
current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis, and
consolidated tax savings are allocated to each company based on its ratio of
taxable income to total consolidated taxable income.

10.  COMMON STOCK

STOCK DISTRIBUTION

In January 1994, The Southern Company board of directors authorized a
two-for-one common stock split in the form of a stock distribution for each
share held as of February 7, 1994.  For all reported common stock data, the
number of common shares outstanding and per share amounts for earnings,
dividends, and market price have been adjusted to reflect the stock
distribution.

SHARES RESERVED

At December 31, 1993, a total of 24 million shares was reserved for issuance
pursuant to the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, the Employee
Savings Plan, and the Executive Stock Option Plan.

EXECUTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN

The Southern Company's Executive Stock Option Plan authorizes the granting of
non-qualified stock options to key employees of The Southern Company, including
officers.  Currently, 34 employees are eligible to participate in the plan.  As
of December 31, 1993, 38 current and former employees participated in the plan.
The maximum number of shares of common stock that may be issued under the
Executive Stock Option Plan may not exceed 6 million.  The price of options
granted to date has been at the fair market value of the shares on the date of
grant.  Options granted to date become exercisable pro rata over a maximum
period of four years from date of grant, such that all options generally are
exercisable by 1997.  Options outstanding will expire upon termination of the
plan, which will occur on December 7, 1997, unless terminated earlier by the
board of directors.  Stock option activity in 1992 and 1993 is summarized
below:








                                    II-34

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report



11.  OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of other long-term debt are as follows:




   With respect to the collateralized pollution control revenue bonds, the
operating companies have authenticated and delivered to trustees a like
principal amount of first mortgage bonds as security for obligations under
installment sale or loan agreements.  The principal and interest on the first
mortgage bonds will be payable only in the event of default under the
agreements.

   Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded as utility plant in
service, and the related obligation is classified as other long-term debt.  The
net book value of capitalized leases was $217 million and $236 million at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.   At December 31, 1993, the composite
interest rates for nuclear fuel, buildings, and other were 3.6 percent, 9.7
percent, and 12.0 percent, respectively.  Sinking fund requirements and/or
serial maturities through 1998 applicable to other long-term debt are as
follows:  $89 million in 1994; $154 million in 1995; $58 million in 1996; $26
million in 1997; and $7 million in 1998.

12.   LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year is as follows:



   The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirements amount to 1
percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the indentures
prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to collateralize
pollution control and other obligations.  The requirements may be satisfied by
depositing cash or reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal
to 166 2/3 percent of such requirements.





                                    II-35

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




13.  NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988, Alabama Power and Georgia
Power maintain agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private
insurance, cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident
occurring at the companies' nuclear power plants.  The act limits to $9.4
billion public liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear
incident.  Each nuclear plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of
$200 million by private insurance, with the remaining coverage provided by a
mandatory program of deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a nuclear
incident, against all owners of nuclear reactors.  A company could be assessed
up to $79 million per incident for each licensed reactor it operates but not
more than an aggregate of $10 million per incident to be paid in a calendar
year for each reactor.  Such maximum assessment, excluding any applicable state
premium taxes, for Alabama Power and Georgia Power -- based on its ownership
and buyback interests -- is $159 million and $171 million, respectively, per
incident but not more than an aggregate of $20 million and $22 million,
respectively, to be paid for each incident in any one year.

   Alabama Power and Georgia Power are members of Nuclear Mutual Limited (NML),
a mutual insurer established to provide property damage insurance in an amount
up to $500 million for members' nuclear generating facilities.  The members are
subject to a retrospective premium adjustment in the event that losses exceed
accumulated reserve funds.  Alabama Power's and Georgia Power's maximum annual
assessments are limited to $14 million and $18 million, respectively, under
current policies.

   Additionally, both companies have policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million NML
coverage.  This excess insurance is provided by Nuclear Electric Insurance
Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company, and American Nuclear
Insurers/Mutual Atomic Energy Liability Underwriters.

   NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant.  Members can be insured against increased costs of replacement power in
an amount up to $3.5 million per week -- starting 21 weeks after the outage --
for one year and up to $2.3 million per week for the second and third years.

   Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if
losses each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under
that policy.  The maximum annual assessments under current policies for Alabama
Power and Georgia Power for excess property damage would be $16 million and $15
million, respectively.  The replacement power assessments are $9 million for
Alabama Power and $13 million for Georgia Power.

   For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole
purpose of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an
accident.  Any remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of
decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and any
further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under the policies and applicable trust
indentures.

   Alabama Power and Georgia Power participate in an insurance program for
nuclear workers that provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily
injury caused at commercial nuclear power plants.  In the event that claims for
this insurance exceed the accumulated reserve funds, Alabama Power and Georgia
Power could be subject to a maximum total assessment of $6 million and $7
million, respectively.





                                    II-36

NOTES  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report




14.  COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND
     RESTRICTIONS


The income of The Southern Company is derived primarily from equity in earnings
of its operating subsidiaries.  At December 31, 1993, $1.6 billion of
consolidated retained earnings was restricted against the payment by the
operating companies of cash dividends on common stock under terms of bond
indentures or charters.



15.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1993 and 1992 are as follows:


*Common stock data have been adjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split in
the form of a stock distribution for each share held as of February 7, 1994.

The company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions and the
timing of rate changes.





                                    II-37

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report
(See Note Below)




Note: Common stock data have been adjusted to reflect a two-for-one stock split
in the form of a stock distribution for each share held as of February 7, 1994.





                                    II-38

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report
(See Note Below)










                                    II-39

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report











                                    II-40

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA  (continued)
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies 1993 Annual Report










                                    II-41

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies











                                     II-42






CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies







                                     II-43




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies







                                     II-44









CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies







                                     II-45






CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies







                                     II-46






CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies







                                     II-47






CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies







                                     II-48






CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The Southern Company and Subsidiary Companies







                                     II-49













                            ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

                              FINANCIAL SECTION




















                                    II-50



MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report

The management of Alabama Power Company has prepared -- and is responsible for
- -- the financial statements and related information included in this report.
These statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include amounts
that are based on the best estimates and judgments of management.  Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

         The company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to
provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that the books and
records reflect only authorized transactions of the company.  Limitations exist
in any system of internal controls based on a recognition that the cost of the
system should not exceed its benefits.  The company believes its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit
relationship.

         The company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on
an ongoing basis by the company's internal audit staff.  The company's
independent public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal
control system in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the financial statements.

         The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of directors
who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
reporting and control functions.  Periodically, this committee meets with
management, the internal auditors and the independent public accountants to
ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls, and financial reporting matters.  The internal
auditors and independent public accountants have access to the members of the
audit committee at any time.

         Management believes that its policies and procedures provide
reasonable assurance that the company's operations are conducted according to a
high standard of business ethics.  In management's opinion, the financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position,
results of operations and cash flows of Alabama Power Company in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.



/s/ Elmer B. Harris                          /s/ William B. Hutchins, III
- --------------------------                   ------------------------------
Elmer B. Harris                              William B. Hutchins III     
President                                    Senior Vice President       
and Chief Executive Officer                  and Chief Financial Officer 




                                   II-51




REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF ALABAMA POWER COMPANY:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of
capitalization of Alabama Power Company (an Alabama corporation and wholly
owned subsidiary of The Southern Company) as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and
the related statements of income, retained earnings, and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These financial
statements are the responsibility of the company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

         In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-59 through II-77) 
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of Alabama Power Company as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the 
results of its operations and its cash flows for the periods stated, in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

         As explained in Notes 2 and 8 to the financial statements, effective

January 1, 1993, the company changed its methods of accounting for
postretirement benefits other than pensions, and for income taxes.




                                                /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.

Birmingham, Alabama
February 16, 1994

                                       

                                   II-52

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EARNINGS

The company's 1993 net income after dividends on preferred stock was $346
million, representing a 2.3 percent increase over the prior year.  This
improvement can be attributed to higher retail energy sales and lower financing
costs.  Retail energy sales increased 5.1 percent from 1992 levels.  This was
primarily due to the extreme weather during 1993, especially when compared to
the unusually mild weather of 1992.  Long-term debt interest expense and
preferred stock dividends decreased in 1993 reflecting the continued redemption
and refinancing of higher cost debt and preferred stock.  These positive
factors were partially offset by higher operating costs and a scheduled
reduction in capacity sales to non-affiliated utilities.

         When comparing 1992 earnings with the prior year, it should be noted
that 1991 earnings included an unusual item -- the settlement of litigation
with Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States) that resulted in an after-tax
gain of $9 million.  A comparison of 1992 to 1991, excluding this unusual
item, would reflect a 1992 increase in earnings of $8 million.

         The return on average common equity for 1993 was 13.9 percent compared
to 14.0 percent in 1992, and 14.6 percent in 1991.

REVENUES

The following table summarizes the principal factors that affected operating
revenues for the past three years:




         Retail revenues of $2.4 billion in 1993 increased $180 million (8.0
percent) over the prior year, compared with no increase in 1992.  The extreme
weather during 1993 and sales growth contributed to the increase in retail
revenues over 1992.  Fuel revenues increased substantially during 1993.
However, changes in fuel revenues are offset with corresponding changes in
recoverable fuel expenses and have no effect on net income.  Gains in 1992
retail revenues, due to higher rates and sales growth, were partially offset by
lower fuel cost recovery revenues.

Revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities under long-term contracts
consist of capacity and energy components.  Capacity revenues reflect the
recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under the contracts.  Energy
is generally sold at variable cost.  The capacity and energy components were:

                                       

                                   II-53

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report
                                                          
         Capacity revenues decreased in 1993 due to a scheduled reduction in
capacity dedicated to unit power sales customers for the first five months of
the year.  The major factor contributing to the increase in capacity revenues
in 1992 and 1991 was a new generating unit, Plant Miller Unit 4, that was
placed in commercial service in March 1991 and dedicated to unit power sales.
This unit's fixed costs are higher than those of the unit it replaced, which
previously provided energy to unit power sales customers.

         Sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric system will
vary from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of
generating resources at each company.  These sales have no material impact on
earnings.

         Kilowatt-hour (KWH) sales for 1993 and the percent change by year were
as follows:


EXPENSES

         Total operating expenses of $2.4 billion for 1993 were up 7.0 percent
compared with the prior year.  The increase was mainly attributable to higher
production expenses of $95 million to meet increased energy demands.

         Total operating expenses for 1992 increased moderately over those
recorded in 1991.  However, absent the Gulf States settlement, which reduced
1991 operating expenses, total operating expenses would have decreased $6
million.

         Fuel costs are the single largest expense for the company.  The mix of
fuel sources for generation of electricity is determined primarily by system
load, the unit cost of fuel consumed, and the availability of hydro and nuclear
generating units.  Fuel expense increases in 1993 represent $83 million of the
production expense increase mentioned above.  Fuel expense decreased in 1992 as
a result of the reduction in the cost of both coal and nuclear fuel, offset
somewhat by a small increase in generation.  Fuel cost per kilowatt-hour
generated was 1.73 cents in 1993, 1.64 cents in 1992 and 1.69 cents in 1991.
Purchased power expenses decreased in 1992 primarily due to less purchased
energy and a decrease in the price of such energy.

         Other operation expenses increased 6.0 percent in 1993 following a
minimal increase in 1992.  The increase in 1993 is primarily the result of
environmental cleanup costs, net expenses of a March snowstorm, and the
one-time cost of a transportation fleet reduction program, which together
totaled $16.1 million.

         Depreciation and amortization expense increased 3.4 percent in 1993
and 3.5 percent in 1992.  This is principally due to continued growth in
depreciable plant in service.  Taxes other than income taxes increased 4.0
percent in 1993 and 1.4 percent in 1992.  These increases were the result of
the addition of new facilities and higher revenue-related taxes.

         The increase in income tax expense of 2.6 percent for 1993 is
primarily attributable to a one percent increase in the corporate federal
income tax rate effective January 1, 1993.

         Interest expense and dividends on preferred stock decreased $7.5
million (2.8 percent) and $7.2 million (2.6 percent) in 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  These reductions are due to significant refinancing of long-term
debt and preferred stock.

                                   II - 54


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


EFFECTS OF INFLATION

The company is subject to rate regulation that is based on the recovery of
historical costs and, therefore is subject to economic losses caused by
inflation.  While the inflation rate has been relatively low in recent years,
it continues to have an adverse effect on the company because of the large
investment in long-lived utility plant.  Conventional accounting for historical
cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially offsetting gain
that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money obligations, such as
long-term debt and preferred stock.  Any recognition of inflation by regulatory
authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential.  The level of future earnings depends
on numerous factors ranging from growth in energy sales to regulatory matters.

         Future earnings in the near term will also depend upon growth in
electric sales, which are subject to a number of factors.  Traditionally, these
factors have included changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, weather,
competition, and the rate of economic growth in the company's service area.  In
addition, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) will have a profound
effect on the future of the electric utility industry.  The Energy Act promotes
energy efficiency, alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric
utilities.  The law also includes provisions to streamline the licensing
process for new nuclear plants.  The company is preparing to meet the challenge
of this major change in the traditional business practices of selling
electricity.  The Energy Act allows independent power producers (IPPs) to
access a utility's transmission network in order to sell electricity to other
utilities, and this may enhance the incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration
plants for a utility's large industrial and commercial customers and sell
excess energy generation to other utilities.  Although the Energy Act does not
require transmission access to retail customers, pressure for legislation to
allow retail wheeling will continue.  If the company does not remain a low-cost
producer and provide quality service, the company's retail energy sales growth,
as well as any new long-term contracts for energy sales outside the service
area, could be limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

         Rates to retail customers served by the company are regulated by the
Alabama Public Service Commission (APSC).  Rates for the company can be
adjusted periodically within certain limitations based on earned retail rate of
return compared with an allowed return.  See Note 3 to the financial statements
for information about other regulatory matters.

         The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates wholesale
rate schedules and power sales contracts that the company has with its sales
for resale customers.  The FERC currently is reviewing the rate of return on
common equity included in these schedules and contracts and may require such
returns to be lowered, possibly retroactively.  See Note 3 to the financial
statements under "FERC Reviews Equity Returns" for additional information.

         Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990
(Clean Air Act) could reduce earnings if such costs are not fully recovered.
The Clean Air Act is discussed later under "Environmental Matters."

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 112,
Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, which must be effective by
1994.  The new standard requires that all types of benefits provided to former
or inactive employees and their families prior to retirement be accounted for
on an accrual basis.  These benefits include salary continuation, severance
pay, supplemental unemployment benefits, disability-related benefits, job
training, and health and life insurance coverage.  In 1993, the company adopted
Statement No. 112, with no material effect on the financial statements.

         The FASB has issued Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, which is effective in 1994.
Statement No. 115 supersedes FASB Statement No. 12, Accounting for Certain
Marketable Securities.  The company adopted the new rules January 1, 1994, with
no material effect on the financial statements.





                                   II-55

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report

FINANCIAL CONDITION

OVERVIEW

The company's financial condition remained stable in 1993.  Growth in energy
sales combined with a significant lowering of the cost of capital, achieved
through the refinancing and/or redemption of higher-cost long-term debt and
preferred stock contributed to this stability.

         The company had gross property additions of $436 million in 1993.  The
majority of funds needed for gross property additions since 1990 have been
provided from operating activities, principally from earnings and non-cash
charges to income such as depreciation and deferred income taxes.  The
Statements of Cash Flows provide additional details.

         On January 1, 1993, the company changed its methods of accounting for
postretirement benefits other than pensions, and for income taxes.  See Notes 2
and 8 to the financial statements, regarding the impact of these changes.

CAPITAL STRUCTURE

The company's ratio of common equity to total capitalization was 47.4 percent
in 1993, compared with 47.6 percent in 1992, and 45.4 percent in 1991.

         In 1993, the company issued $860 million of first mortgage bonds, $158
million of preferred stock and, through public authorities, $144 million of
pollution control revenue bonds.  The company continued to reduce financing
costs by retiring higher-cost bonds and preferred stock.  Retirements,
including maturities, of bonds totaled $835 million, and preferred stock
retirements totaled $207 million.  Composite financing rates as of year-end for
1991 through 1993 were as follows:
                                                   

  The company's current securities ratings are as follows:
                                                            

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

Capital expenditures are estimated to be $588 million for 1994, $572 million
for 1995, and $531 million for 1996.  The total is $1.7 billion for the three
years.  Actual capital costs may vary from this estimate because of factors
such as changes in environmental regulations; changes in the existing nuclear
plant to meet new regulations; revised load projections; increasing costs of
labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital.

  The company does not have any baseload generating plants under construction,
and current energy demand forecasts do not require any additional baseload
generating units until well into the future.  However, the construction of
combustion turbine peaking units of approximately 720 megawatts of capacity is
planned by 1996 to meet increased peak-hour demands.  In addition, significant
construction of transmission and distribution facilities and upgrading of
generating plants will continue.

  In addition to the funds needed for the capital budget, approximately $80
million will be required by the end of 1996 for present sinking fund
requirements, redemptions announced, and maturities of first mortgage bonds.
Also, the company plans to continue a program to retire higher-cost debt and
preferred stock and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law.  Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- will have a
significant impact on the Southern electric system.  Specific reductions in
sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from fossil-fired generating plants
will be required in two phases.  Phase I compliance must be implemented in 1995
and affects eight generating plants -- some 10,000

                                   II-56

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


megawatts of capacity or 35 percent of total capacity -- in the Southern
electric system.  Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired
generating plants in the Southern electric system will be affected.

  Beginning in 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will allocate
annual sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the newly established
allowance trading program.  An emission allowance is the authority to emit one
ton of sulfur dioxide during a calendar year.  The method for allocating
allowances is based on the fossil fuel consumed from 1985 through 1987 for each
affected generating unit.  Emission allowances are transferable and can be
bought, sold, or banked and used in the future.

  The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to minimize the
cost of compliance.  The market for emission allowances is developing slower
than expected.  However, The Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to take advantage of allowances as the market develops.

  The Southern Company expects to achieve Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at
the eight affected plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, and this has
required some equipment upgrades.  This compliance strategy is expected to
result in unused emission allowances being banked for later use.  Additional
construction expenditures are required to install equipment for the control of
nitrogen oxide emissions at these eight plants.  Also, continuous emissions
monitoring equipment would be installed on all fossil-fired units.  Under this
Phase I compliance approach, additional construction expenditures are estimated
to total approximately $275 million through 1995 for The Southern Company, of
which the company's portion is approximately $30 million.

  Phase II compliance costs are expected to be higher because requirements are
stricter and all fossil-fired generating plants are affected.  For sulfur
dioxide compliance, The Southern Company could use emission allowances banked
during Phase I, increase fuel switching, install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants, and/or purchase more allowances depending on the
price and availability of allowances.  Also, in Phase II, equipment to control
nitrogen oxide emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired
plants as required to meet anticipated Phase II limits.  Therefore, during the
period 1996 to 2000, compliance could require total construction expenditures
ranging from approximately $450 million to $800 million for The Southern
Company, of which the company's portion is approximately $225 million to $350
million.  However, the full impact of Phase II compliance cannot now be
determined with certainty, pending the development of a market for emission
allowances, the completion of EPA regulations, and the possibility of new
emission reduction technologies.

  An increase of up to 2 percent in annual revenue requirements from customers
could be necessary to fully recover the company's cost of compliance for both
Phase I and Phase II of the Clean Air Act.  Compliance costs include
construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to low-sulfur coal,
and costs related to emission allowances.

  There can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will be recovered.

  Title III of the Clean Air Act requires a multi-year EPA study of power plant
emissions of hazardous air pollutants.  The study will serve as the basis for a
decision on whether additional regulatory control of these substances is
warranted.  Compliance with any new control standards could result in
significant additional costs.  The impact of new standards -- if any -- will
depend on the development and implementation of applicable regulations.

  The EPA continues to evaluate the need for a new short-term ambient air
quality standard for sulfur dioxide.  Preliminary results from an EPA study on
the impact of a new standard indicate that a number of plants could be required
to install sulfur dioxide controls.  These controls would be in addition to the
controls already required to meet the acid rain provision of the Clean Air Act.
The EPA is expected to take some action on this issue in 1994.  The impact of
any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the standard and cannot be
determined at this time.

  In addition, the EPA is evaluating the need to revise the ambient air quality
standards for particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and ozone.  The impact of
any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the standard





                                   II-57

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


and cannot be determined at this time.

  In 1994 or 1995, the EPA is expected to issue revised rules on air quality
control regulations related to stack height requirements of the Clean Air Act.
The full impact of the final rules cannot be determined at this time, pending
their development and implementation.

  In 1993, the EPA issued a ruling confirming the non-hazardous status of coal
ash.  However, the EPA has until 1998 to classify co-managed utility wastes --
coal ash and other utility wastes -- as either non-hazardous or hazardous.  If
the EPA classifies the co-managed wastes as hazardous, then substantial
additional costs for the management of such wastes may be required.  The full
impact of any change in the regulatory status will depend on the subsequent
development of co-managed waste requirements.

  The company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste.  Under these various laws
and regulations, the company could incur costs to clean up properties currently
or previously owned.  The company conducts studies to determine the extent of
any required clean-up costs and has recognized in the financial statements
costs to clean up known sites.

  Several major pieces of environmental legislation are in the process of being
reauthorized or amended by Congress.  These include: the Clean Water Act; the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; and the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  Changes to these laws could affect
many areas of The Southern Company's operations.  The full impact of these
requirements cannot be determined at this time, pending the development and
implementation of applicable regulations.

  Compliance with possible new legislation related to global climate change,
electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns could
significantly affect the Southern electric system.  The impact of new
legislation -- if any -- will depend on the subsequent development and
implementation of applicable regulations.  In addition, the potential for
lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields exists.

SOURCES OF CAPITAL

It is anticipated that the funds required will be derived from sources in form
and quantity similar to those used in the past.  To issue additional first
mortgage bonds and preferred stock, the company must comply with certain
earnings coverage requirements designated in its mortgage indenture and
corporate charter.  The company's coverages are at a level that would permit
any necessary amount of security sales at current interest and dividend rates.

  As required by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and as ordered by the APSC,
the company has established external trust funds for nuclear decommissioning
costs.  Also, during 1993, the APSC issued a policy statement which will
require external funding of postretirement benefits.  The cumulative effect of
funding these items over a long period will diminish internally funded capital
and may require capital from other sources.  For additional information
concerning nuclear decommissioning costs, see Note 1 to the financial
statements under "Depreciation and Nuclear Decommissioning."





                                   II-58

STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
Alabama Power Company


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                   II-59



STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
Alabama Power Company


( ) Denotes use of cash.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                   II-60




BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
Alabama Power Company

 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                   II-61

BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
Alabama Power Company


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                   II-62

STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
Alabama Power Company


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                   II-63

STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
Alabama Power Company


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                   II-64


NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

GENERAL

The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Southern Company which is the
parent company of five operating companies, a system service company, Southern
Electric International (Southern Electric), Southern Nuclear Operating Company
(Southern Nuclear), and various other subsidiaries related to foreign utility
operations and domestic non-utility operations.  At this time, the operations
of the other subsidiaries are not material.  The operating companies (Alabama
Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power
Company, and Savannah Electric and Power Company) provide electric service in
four Southeastern states.  Contracts among the companies -- dealing with
jointly-owned generating facilities, interconnecting transmission lines, and
the exchange of electric power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
The system service company provides, at cost, specialized services upon request
to The Southern Company and to the subsidiary companies.  Southern Electric
designs, builds, owns and operates power production facilities and provides a
broad range of technical services to industrial companies and utilities in the
United States and a number of international markets.  Southern Nuclear provides
services to The Southern Company's nuclear power plants.

  The Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA).  Both The Southern Company and its
subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA.  The
company is also regulated by the FERC and the Alabama Public Service Commission
(APSC).  The company follows generally accepted accounting principles and
complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed by the
respective commissions.

  Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

REVENUES AND FUEL COSTS

The company accrues revenues for services rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period.  Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used.  The
company's electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations
in fuel and the energy component of purchased power costs.  Revenues are
adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs and amounts actually
recovered in current rates.

  Fuel expense includes the amortization of the cost of nuclear fuel and a
charge, based on nuclear generation, for the permanent disposal of spent
nuclear fuel.  Total charges for nuclear fuel included in fuel expense amounted
to $62 million in 1993, $48 million in 1992, and $69 million in 1991.  The
company has a contract with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) that provides
for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel, which was scheduled to begin
in 1998.  However, the actual year this service will begin is uncertain.
Sufficient storage capacity currently is available to permit operation into
2012 and 2014 at Plant Farley units 1 and 2, respectively.

  Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the establishment in 1993 of a
Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund, which is to be
funded in part by a special assessment on utilities with nuclear plants.  This
assessment will be paid over a 15-year period, which began in 1993.  This fund
will be used by the DOE for the decontamination and decommissioning of its
nuclear fuel enrichment facilities.  The law provides that utilities will
recover these payments in the same manner as any other fuel expense.  The
company currently estimates its liability under this law to be approximately
$46 million.  This obligation is recognized in the accompanying Balance Sheets.

DEPRECIATION AND NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates which approximated
3.3 percent in 1993, 1992, and 1991.  When property subject to depreciation is
retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of business, its cost --
together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is charged to the
accumulated provision for depreciation.  Minor items of property included in
the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property unit is
retired.  Depreciation expense includes an amount for the expected cost of
decommissioning nuclear facilities.





                                   II-65

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report

  In 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) adopted regulations
requiring all licensees operating commercial power reactors to establish a plan
for providing, with reasonable assurance, funds for decommissioning.
Reasonable assurance may be in the form of an external trust fund, a surety
method, or prepayment.  The company has established external trust funds to
comply with the NRC's regulations.  Prior to the enactment of these
regulations, the company had reserved nuclear decommissioning costs.  The NRC's
minimum external funding requirements are based on a generic estimate of the
cost to decommission the radioactive portions of a nuclear unit based on the
size and type of reactor.  The company has filed plans with the NRC to ensure
that -- over time -- the deposits and earnings of the external trust funds will
provide the minimum funding amount prescribed by the NRC.

    The estimated cost of decommissioning and the amounts being recovered
through rates at December 31, 1993, for Plant Farley were as follows:


  The amount in the internal reserve is being transferred into the external
trust funds over the remaining life of the license for Plant Farley as approved
by the APSC.

  The decommissioning cost estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service.  The actual decommissioning costs may vary
from the above estimates because of regulatory requirements, changes in
technology, and changes in costs of labor, materials, and equipment.

INCOME TAXES

The company provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences.  Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

  In years prior to 1993, income taxes were accounted for and reported under
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 11.  Effective January 1, 1993, the
company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes.  Statement No. 109 required, among other things,
conversion to the liability method of accounting for accumulated deferred
income taxes.  See Note 8 for additional information about Statement No. 109.

ALLOWANCE FOR FUNDS USED DURING CONSTRUCTION
(AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities.  While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense.  The composite rate used to determine the amount of
allowance, net of deferred income tax, was 6.2 percent in 1991.  Such method of
computing AFUDC ceased upon the commercial operation of Plant Miller Unit 4 in
March 1991.  For construction projects begun after 1986, deferral of taxes
related to capitalized interest is no longer permitted.  For those projects,
the composite rate used to determine the amount of allowance was 7.8 percent in
1993, 7.9 percent in 1992, and 8.3 percent in 1991.  AFUDC, net of income tax,
as a percent of net income after dividends on preferred stock was 1.5 percent
in 1993, 1.1 percent in 1992, and 2.0 percent in 1991.

UTILITY PLANT

Utility plant is stated at original cost.  Original cost includes:  materials;
labor; minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction.  The cost of maintenance,
repairs and replacements of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense.  The cost of replacements of property (exclusive

                                   II-66

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


of minor items of property) is charged to utility plant.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosure About Fair Value of
Financial Instruments, all financial instruments of the company -- for which
the carrying amount does not approximate fair value -- are shown in the table
below as of December 31:




  The fair values of nuclear decommissioning trusts and investment securities
were based on listed closing market prices.  The fair values for long-term debt
were based on either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable
instruments.

MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials.  Materials are charged to
inventory when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as
appropriate, when installed.

VACATION PAY

The company's employees earn their vacation in one year and take it in the
subsequent year.  However, for ratemaking purposes, vacation pay is recognized
as an allowable expense only when paid.  Consistent with this ratemaking
treatment, the company accrues a current liability for earned vacation pay and
records a current asset representing future recoverability of this cost.  The
amount was $23 million and $22 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  In 1994, an estimated 65 percent of the 1993 deferred vacation
cost will be expensed and the balance will be charged to construction and other
accounts.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

PENSION PLAN

The company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees.  Benefits are based on the greater
of amounts resulting from two different formulas:  years of service and final
average pay or years of service and a flat-dollar benefit.  The company uses
the "entry age normal method with a frozen initial liability" actuarial method
for funding purposes, subject to limitations under federal income tax
regulations.  Amounts funded to the pension fund are primarily invested in
equity and fixed-income securities.  FASB Statement No. 87, Employers'
Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the "projected unit credit" actuarial
method for financial reporting purposes.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees.  Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire.  A qualified trust for medical benefits has been
established for funding amounts to the extent deductible under federal income
tax regulations.  Amounts funded are primarily invested in debt and equity
securities.  Accrued costs of life insurance benefits, other than current cash
payments for retirees, currently are not being funded.  However, in December
1993, the APSC issued an accounting policy statement which requires the company
to externally fund all postretirement benefits.  It is expected that an
external funding program will begin in 1994.



  Effective January 1, 1993, the company adopted FASB Statement No. 106,
Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, on a
prospective basis.  Statement No. 106 requires that medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis
using a specified actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."





                                   II-67

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report

Because the adoption of Statement No. 106 was reflected in rates, it did not
have a material impact on net income.

  Prior to 1993, the company recognized these benefit costs on an accrual basis
using the "aggregate cost" actuarial method, which spreads the expected cost of
such benefits over the remaining periods of employees' service as a level
percentage of payroll costs.  The total costs of such benefits recognized by
the company in 1992 and 1991 were $15.2 million and $15.4 million,
respectively.

Status and Cost of Benefits

Shown in the following tables are actuarial results and assumptions for pension
and postretirement medical and life insurance benefits as computed under the
requirements of Statement Nos. 87 and 106, respectively.  Retiree medical and
life insurance information is shown only for 1993 because Statement No. 106 was
adopted as of January 1, 1993, on a prospective basis.  The funded status of
the plans at December 31 was as follows:



  The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations were:


  An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
medical benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate
of 11.3 percent for 1993, decreasing gradually to 6.0 percent through the year
2000 and remaining at that level thereafter.  An annual increase in the assumed
medical care cost trend rate by 1.0 percent would increase the accumulated
medical benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993, by $32.8 million and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net retiree
medical cost by $3.4 million.

                                   II-68


NOTES(continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   Components of the plans' net cost are shown below:



   Of the above net pension amounts, $(8.9) million in 1993, $(5.1) million in
1992, and $0.7 million in 1991 were recorded in operating expenses, and the
remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.



   Of the above net postretirement medical and life insurance costs recorded in
1993, $22 million was charged to operating expenses and the remainder was
charged to construction and other accounts.

WORK FORCE REDUCTION PROGRAM

The company has incurred additional costs for work force reduction programs.
The costs related to these programs were $16.1 million, $13.4 million and $6.7
million for the years 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  A portion of the cost
of these programs was deferred and is being amortized in accordance with
regulatory treatment.  The unamortized balance of these costs was $15.3 million
at December 31, 1993.

3. LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

RETAIL RATE ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURES

In November 1982, the APSC adopted rates that provide for periodic adjustments
based upon the company's earned return on end-of-period retail common equity.
The rates also provide for adjustments to recognize the placing of new
generating facilities in retail service. Both increases and decreases have been
placed into effect since the adoption of these rates.  The rate adjustment
procedures allow a return on common equity range of 13.0 percent to 14.5
percent and limit increases or decreases in rates to 4 percent in any calendar
year.

   The APSC issued an order in December 1991 that reduced a scheduled 2.03
percent annual increase in rates to 1.03 percent, effective January 1992.  The
1 percent reduction will remain in effect through 1994.  The rate reduction was
designed to refund to retail ratepayers a portion of the benefits from a
settled contract dispute with Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States).  The
present value of this portion of the settlement amounting to approximately $60
million is being amortized to revenues to offset the rate reduction in
accordance with the APSC's rate order.  See Note 7 for additional information
concerning the Gulf States settlement.

   Also in the December 1991 rate order, the APSC reaffirmed its satisfaction
with the ratemaking mechanism and stated that it did not foresee any further
review or changes in the procedures until after 1994.  The ratemaking
procedures will remain in effect after 1994 unless the APSC votes to modify or
discontinue them.




   In February 1993, the APSC ordered - at the company's request - a moratorium
on rate increases for the first two quarters of 1993, which facilitated the
transition of an accounting change.  This accounting change permitted the
accrual of estimated operation and maintenance expenses related to nuclear
refueling outages during the period between outages rather than at the time the
expenses are incurred.

HEAT PUMP FINANCING SUIT

In September 1990, two customers of the company filed a civil complaint in the
Circuit Court of Shelby County, Alabama, against the company seeking to
represent all





                                   II-69

NOTES(continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


persons who, prior to June 23, 1989, entered into agreements with the company
for the financing of heat pumps and other merchandise purchased from vendors
other than the company.  The plaintiffs contended that the company was required
to obtain a license under the Alabama Consumer Finance Act to engage in the
business of making consumer loans.  The plaintiffs were seeking an order
declaring these agreements null and void and requiring the company to refund
all payments -- principal and interest -- made under these agreements.  The
aggregate amount under these agreements, together with interest paid, currently
is estimated to be $40 million.

   In June, 1993, the court ordered the company to refund or forfeit interest
of approximately $10 million because of the company's failure to obtain such
license.  However, the court's order did not require any refund or forfeiture
with respect to any principal payments under the agreements at issue.  The
company has appealed the court's order to the Supreme Court of Alabama.

   The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material effect on the
company's financial statements.

FERC REVIEWS EQUITY RETURNS

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater.  The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar contracts.  Any
changes in the rate of return on common equity that may occur as a result of
this proceeding would be effective 60 days after a proper notice of the
proceeding is published.  A notice was published on May 10, 1991.

   In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest.  The FERC
staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the
matter remains pending before the FERC.

   The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material effect on the
company's financial statements.

4. CAPITAL BUDGET

The company's capital expenditures are currently estimated to total $588
million in 1994, $572 million in 1995 and $531 million in 1996.  The estimates
include AFUDC of $10 million in 1994, $11 million in 1995 and $12 million in
1996.  The estimates for property additions for the three-year period includes
$36.5 million committed to meeting the requirements of the Clean Air Act.  The
capital budget is subject to periodic review and revision, and actual capital
cost incurred may vary from the above estimates because of numerous factors.
These factors include changes in business conditions; revised load growth
projections; changes in environmental regulations; changes in the existing
nuclear plant to meet new regulatory requirements; increasing costs of labor,
equipment, and materials; and cost of capital.  At December 31, 1993,
significant purchase commitments were outstanding in connection with the
construction program.  The company does not have any new baseload generating
plants under construction.  However, the construction of combustion turbine
peaking units of approximately 720 megawatts is planned to be completed by
1996.  In addition, significant construction will continue related to
transmission and distribution facilities and the upgrading and extension of the
useful lives of generating plants.

5. FINANCING, INVESTMENT, AND COMMITMENTS

GENERAL

To the extent possible, the company's construction program is expected to be
financed primarily from internal sources.  Short-term debt will be utilized
when necessary; the amounts available are discussed below.  The company may
issue additional long-term debt and preferred stock primarily for the purposes
of debt maturities and for redeeming higher-cost securities.

FINANCING

The ability of the company to finance its capital budget depends on the amount
of funds generated internally and the funds it can raise by external financing.
The





                                   II-70

NOTES(continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


company's primary sources of external financing are sales of first mortgage
bonds and preferred stock to the public, receipt of additional paid-in capital
from The Southern Company, and leasing of nuclear material.  In order to issue
additional first mortgage bonds and preferred stock, the company must comply
with certain earnings coverage requirements contained in its mortgage indenture
and corporate charter.  The most restrictive of these provisions requires, for
the issuance of additional first mortgage bonds, that before-income-tax
earnings, as defined, cover pro forma annual interest charges on outstanding
first mortgage bonds at least twice; and for the issuance of additional
preferred stock, that gross income available for interest cover pro forma
annual interest charges and preferred stock dividends at least one and one-half
times.  These coverages, for first mortgage bonds and for preferred stock for
the year ended December 31, 1993, were 5.70 and 2.71, respectively.

BANK CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS

The company, along with The Southern Company and Georgia Power Company, has
entered into agreements with several banks outside the service area to provide
$400 million of revolving credit to the companies through June 30, 1996.  To
provide liquidity support for commercial paper programs, the company and
Georgia Power Company have exclusive right to $135 million and $165 million,
respectively, of the available credit.  The companies have the option of
converting the short-term borrowings into term loans, payable in 12 equal
quarterly installments, with the first installment due at the end of the first
calendar quarter after the applicable termination date or at an earlier date at
the companies' option.  In addition, these agreements provide for payment of
commitment fees based on the unused portions of the commitments or the
maintenance of compensating balances with the banks.

   Additionally, the company maintains committed lines of credit in the amount
of $350 million which expire at various times during 1994 and, in certain
cases, provide for average annual compensating balances.  Because the
arrangements are based on an average balance, the company does not consider any
of its cash balances to be restricted as of any specific date.  Moreover, the
company borrows from time to time pursuant to arrangements with banks for
uncommitted lines of credit.

   In connection with all other lines of credit, the company has the option of
paying fees or maintaining compensating balances, which are substantially all
the cash of the company except for daily working funds and similar items.
These balances are not legally restricted from withdrawal.

   At December 31, 1993, the company had regulatory approval to have
outstanding up to $450 million of short-term borrowings.

ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN

The company's mortgage, as amended and supplemented, securing the first
mortgage bonds issued by the company, constitutes a direct lien on
substantially all of the company's fixed property and franchises.

FUEL COMMITMENTS

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
company has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of
fossil and nuclear fuel.  In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
price escalations, minimum purchase levels and other financial commitments.
Total estimated long-term obligations through the year 2013 were approximately
$8 billion at December 31, 1993.

   In addition, a contract with a certain coal contractor requires
reimbursement or purchase, at net book value, of the investment in the mine or
equipment upon termination of the contract.  At December 31, 1993, such net
book value was approximately $13 million.  Additional commitments for coal and
for nuclear fuel will be required in the future to supply the company's fuel
needs.

6. FACILITY SALES AND JOINT OWNERSHIP
   AGREEMENTS

The company and Georgia Power Company own equally all of the outstanding
capital stock of Southern Electric Generating Company (SEGCO), which owns
electric generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,019,680 kilowatts,
together with associated transmission facilities.  The capacity of these units
is sold equally to the company and Georgia Power Company under a contract
expiring in 1994 which, in substance, requires payments sufficient to provide
for the operating expenses, taxes, interest expense





                                   II-71

NOTES(continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


and a return on equity, whether or not SEGCO has any capacity and energy
available.  The company's share of expenses totaled $86 million in 1993, $73
million in 1992 and $82 million in 1991, and is included in "Purchased power
from affiliates" in the Statements of Income.  An amended contract has been
filed with the FERC with substantially the same provisions, but the term
thereof would be extended automatically for two year periods, subject to any
party's right to cancel upon two years' notice.

   In addition, the company has guaranteed unconditionally the obligation of
SEGCO under an installment sale agreement for the purchase of certain pollution
control facilities at SEGCO's generating units, pursuant to which $24.5 million
principal amount of pollution control revenue bonds are outstanding. Georgia
Power Company has agreed to reimburse the company for the pro rata portion of
such obligation corresponding to its then proportionate ownership of stock of
SEGCO if the company is called upon to make such payment under its guaranty.

   At December 31, 1993, the capitalization of SEGCO consisted of $58 million
of equity and $84 million of long-term debt on which the annual interest
requirement is $3.8 million.  SEGCO paid dividends totaling $11.3 million in
1993, $12.0 million in 1992, and $4.5 million in 1991, of which one-half of
each was paid to the company.  SEGCO's net income was $8.3 million, $9.3
million and $9.2 million for 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

   In June 1992 the company completed the sale of a portion of Plant Miller
Units 1 and 2 to Alabama Electric Cooperative, Inc.  (AEC).  The company's
percentage ownership and investment in jointly-owned generating plants at
December 31, 1993, follows:

 
         
(1)  Jointly owned with an affiliate, Mississippi Power Company.
(2)  Jointly owned with AEC.



7. LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

GENERAL

The operating subsidiaries of The Southern Company, including the company, have
entered into long-term and short-term contractual agreements for the sale of
capacity and energy to certain non-affiliated utilities located outside the
system's service area.  Certain of these agreements are non-firm and are based
on capacity of the system in general.  Other agreements are firm and pertain to
capacity related to specific generating units.  Because the energy is generally
sold at cost under these agreements, revenues from capacity sales primarily
affect profitability.  The company's portion of off-system capacity revenues
has been as follows:




   Long-term non-firm power of 400 megawatts was sold by the Southern electric
system in 1993 to Florida Power Corporation (FPC).  In January 1994, this
amount decreased to 200 megawatts, and the contract will expire at year-end.

   Unit power from Plant Miller is being sold to FPC, Florida Power & Light
Company (FP&L), Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA) and the City of
Tallahassee, Florida (Tallahassee).  Under these agreements, an average of
1,100 megawatts of capacity is scheduled to be





                                   II-72

NOTES(continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


sold during 1994.  Thereafter, these sales will increase to some 1,200
megawatts and remain at that approximate level -- unless reduced by FP&L, FPC,
and JEA for the periods after 1999 -- until the expiration of the contracts in
2010.

GULF STATES SETTLEMENT COMPLETED

On November 7, 1991, subsidiaries of The Southern Company entered into a
settlement agreement with Gulf States that resolved litigation between the
companies that had been pending since 1986 and arose out of a dispute over
certain unit power and other long-term power sales contracts.  In 1993, all
remaining terms and obligations of the settlement agreement were satisfied.

   With respect to the company's portion of proceeds received in 1991, see Note
3 concerning the regulatory treatment of amounts being refunded to retail
customers over a three-year period.

ALABAMA MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC AUTHORITY (AMEA)
CAPACITY CONTRACTS

In August 1986, the company entered into a firm power purchase contract with
AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of capacity (to a maximum 100
megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing September 1, 1986 (1986
Contract).  In October 1991, the company entered into a second firm power
purchase contract with AMEA entitling AMEA to scheduled amounts of additional
capacity (to a maximum 80 megawatts) for a period of 15 years commencing
October 1, 1991 (1991 Contract).  In both contracts the power will be sold to
AMEA for its member municipalities that previously were served directly by the
company as wholesale customers.  Under the terms of the contracts, the company
received payments from AMEA representing the net present value of the revenues
associated with the respective capacity entitlements, discounted at effective
annual rates of 9.96 percent and 11.19 percent for the 1986 and 1991 Contracts,
respectively.  These payments are being recognized as operating revenues and
the discounts are being amortized to other interest expense as scheduled
capacity is made available over the terms of the contracts.

   In order to secure AMEA's advance payments and the company's performance
obligation under the contracts, the company issued and delivered to an escrow
agent first mortgage bonds representing the maximum amount of liquidated
damages payable by the company in the event of a default under the contracts.
No principal or interest is payable on such bonds unless and until a default by
the company occurs. As the liquidated damages decline under the contracts, a
portion of the bonds equal to the decreases are returned to the company. At
December 31, 1993, $153 million of such bonds were held by the escrow agent
under the contracts.

8. INCOME TAXES

Effective January 1, 1993, the company adopted FASB Statement No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes.  The adoption of Statement No.  109 resulted in
cumulative adjustments that had no material effect on net income.  The adoption
also resulted in the recording of additional deferred income taxes and related
assets and liabilities.  The related assets of $469 million are revenues to be
received from customers.  These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed
through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized
AFUDC.  The related liabilities of $441 million are revenues to be refunded to
customers.  These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes previously
recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to unamortized
investment tax credits.  Additionally, deferred income taxes related to
accelerated tax depreciation previously shown as a reduction to utility plant
were reclassified.





                                   II-73

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


  Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:




  The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:



  Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income.  Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $13 million in 1993, $18 million in 1992, and $16 million in 1991.
At December 31, 1993, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal
income taxes payable had been utilized.

  A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the effective
income tax rate is as follows:



  The Southern Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income
tax return.  Under a joint consolidated income tax agreement, each company's
current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis, and
consolidated tax savings are allocated to each company based on its ratio of
taxable income to total consolidated taxable income.





                                   II-74

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


9.  OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Details of other long-term debt are as follows:


  Pollution control obligations represent installment purchases of pollution
control facilities financed by funds derived from sales by public authorities
of revenue bonds.  The company is required to make payments sufficient for the
authorities to meet principal and interest requirements of such bonds.  With
respect to $154.5 million of such pollution control obligations, the company
has authenticated and delivered to the trustees a like principal amount of
first mortgage bonds as security for its obligations under the installment
purchase agreements.  No principal or interest on these first mortgage bonds is
payable unless and until a default occurs on the installment purchase
agreements.

  The company has capitalized leased nuclear material and recorded the related
lease obligations.  The arrangement provides for the payment of interest at
varying rates and times dependent on options selected by the company from types
of loans available under the arrangement.  At the end of 1993 the effective
rate of this lease arrangement, including applicable fees, was 3.58 percent.
Principal payments are required under the arrangement based on the cost of fuel
burned.

  The company has also capitalized certain office building leases and a street
light lease.  Monthly principal payments plus interest are required, and at
December 31, 1993, the interest rate was 9.5 percent for office buildings and
13.0 percent for street lights.

  The net book value of capitalized leases included in utility plant in service
was $94.7 million and $103.0 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  The estimated aggregate annual maturities of other long-term
debt through 1998 are as follows: $38.9 million in 1994, $33.3 million in 1995,
$18.7 million in 1996, $6.4 million in 1997 and $3.0 million  in 1998.

10.   LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year is as follows:


    The annual first mortgage bond improvement fund requirement is one percent
of the aggregate principal amount of bonds of each series authenticated, so
long as a portion of that series is outstanding, and may be satisfied by the
deposit of cash and/or reacquired bonds, the certification of unfunded property
additions or a combination thereof.  The 1994 requirement of $20.1 million was
satisfied by the deposit of cash in 1994, which was used for the partial
redemption of various series of outstanding bonds.  In addition, maturing in
1994 are other long-term debt of $38.9 million consisting primarily of
capitalized nuclear fuel obligations.





                                   II-75

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


11.   NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988 (Act), the company maintains
agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private insurance,
cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident occurring at
Plant Farley.  The Act limits to $9.4 billion, public liability claims that
could arise from a single nuclear incident. Plant Farley is insured against
this liability to a maximum of $200 million by private insurance, with the
remaining coverage provided by a mandatory program of deferred premiums which
could be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against all owners of nuclear
reactors.  A company could be assessed up to $79 million per incident for each
licensed reactor it operates but not more than an aggregate of $10 million per
incident to be paid in a calendar year for each reactor. Such maximum
assessment, excluding any applicable state premium taxes, for the company is
$159 million per incident but not more than an aggregate of $20 million to be
paid for each incident in any one year.

  The company is a member of Nuclear Mutual Limited (NML), a mutual insurer
established to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500
million for members' nuclear generating facilities.  The members are subject to
a retrospective premium adjustment in the event that losses exceed accumulated
reserve funds.  The company's maximum annual assessment per incident is limited
to $14 million under the current policy.

  Additionally, the company has policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million NML
coverage.  This excess insurance is provided by Nuclear Electric Insurance
Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company, and American Nuclear
Insurers/Mutual Atomic Energy Liability Underwriters.

  NEIL also covers the additional cost that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant.  Members can be insured against increased cost of replacement power in
an amount up to $3.5 million per week (starting 21 weeks after the outage) for
one year and up to $2.3 million per week for the second and third years.

  Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if losses
each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under that
policy.  The maximum annual assessments per incident under current policies for
the company would be $16 million for excess property damage and $9 million for
replacement power.

  For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole
purpose of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an
accident.  Any remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of
decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and then, any
further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under applicable trust indentures.

  The company participates in an insurance program for nuclear workers that
provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused at
commercial nuclear power plants.  In the event that claims for this insurance
exceed the accumulated reserve funds, the company could be subject to a maximum
total assessment of $6.4 million.





                                      
                                   II-76

NOTES (continued)
Alabama Power Company 1993 Annual Report


12.   COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND
      RESTRICTIONS

The company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various common stock
dividend restrictions that remain in effect as long as the bonds are
outstanding.  At December 31, 1993, $653 million of retained earnings was
restricted against the payment of cash dividends on common stock under terms of
the mortgage indenture.  Supplemental indentures in connection with future
first mortgage bond issues may contain more stringent common stock dividend
restrictions than those currently in effect.

13.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
      (UNAUDITED)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1993 and 1992 are as follows:

                                                              


The company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions and the
timing of rate adjustments.





                                       
                                   II-77

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Alabama Power Company






                                   II-78

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Alabama Power Company






                                    II-79

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Alabama Power Company


Notes:
(1)  Generating capacity and fuel data includes Alabama Power Company's 50%
     portion of SEGCO.
(2)  Includes Southeastern Power Administration allotment.
 *  Less than one-tenth of one percent.



                                   II-80

SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Alabama Power Company






                                    II-81






STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Alabama Power Company

                                                                   
                                             
* Includes the effect of recognizing, beginning in 1987, retail service
   rendered but not yet billed to customers.


                                     II-82






STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Alabama Power Company




                                     II-83

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Alabama Power Company


( ) Denotes use of cash.


                                    II-84




STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Alabama Power Company



                                     II-85






BALANCE SHEETS
Alabama Power Company

                                        

*Includes the effect of recognizing, beginning in 1987, retail service
  rendered but not yet billed to customers.


                                     II-86








BALANCE SHEETS
Alabama Power Company



                                     II-87






BALANCE SHEETS
Alabama Power Company

                                        

*Includes the effect of recognizing, beginning in 1987, retail service
  rendered but not yet billed to customers.

                                     II-88






BALANCE SHEETS
Alabama Power Company



                                     II-89




                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
                             OUTSTANDING SECURITIES
                              AT DECEMBER 31, 1993
                              FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS



                                     II-90




                            ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

                              SECURITIES RETIRED
                                 DURING 1993

                             FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS




                                     II-91

                            GEORGIA POWER COMPANY


                              FINANCIAL SECTION










                                    II-92


MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


The management of Georgia Power Company has prepared this annual report and is
responsible for the financial statements and related information.  These
statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances, and necessarily include amounts
that are based on the best estimates and judgments of management.  Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

  The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that the books and records
reflect only authorized transactions of the Company.  Limitations exist in any
system of internal controls based upon the recognition that the cost of the
system should not exceed its benefits.  The Company believes that its system of
internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit
relationship.

  The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff.  The Company's independent
public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control
system in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of
expressing an opinion on the financial statements.

  The audit committee of the board of directors, which is composed of five
directors who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's
financial reporting and control functions.  At least three times a year this 
committee meets with management, the internal auditors, and the independent 
public accountants to ensure that these groups are fulfilling their
obligations and to discuss auditing, internal control and financial reporting
matters.  The internal auditors and the independent public accountants have
access to the members of the audit committee at any time.

  Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
assurance that the Company's operations are conducted with a high standard of
business ethics.

  In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly the
financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Georgia Power
Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  As
discussed in Note 4 to the financial statements, an uncertainty exists with
respect to the actions of regulators regarding recoverability of the Company's
investment in the Rocky Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric project.  The
outcome  of this uncertainty cannot be determined until regulatory proceedings
are concluded.  Accordingly, no provision for any write-down of the costs
associated with the Rocky Mountain project resulting from the potential actions
of the Georgia Public Service Commission has been made in the accompanying
financial statements.

/s/ H. Allen Franklin                      /s/ Warren Y. Jobe
- ---------------------                      --------------------------
H. Allen Franklin                                Warren Y. Jobe
President and Chief                         Executive Vice President,
  Executive Officer                             Treasurer and Chief
                                                 Financial Officer








                                      
                                    II-93

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF GEORGIA POWER COMPANY:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of
capitalization of Georgia Power Company (a Georgia corporation) as of December
31, 1993 and 1992, and the related statements of income, retained earnings,
paid-in capital, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1993.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

  In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-102 through II-122) 
referred  to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of Georgia Power Company as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the 
results of its operations and its cash flows for the periods stated, in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

  As explained in Notes 2 and 7 to the financial statements, effective January
1, 1993, the Company changed its methods of accounting for postretirement 
benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.

  As more fully discussed in Note 4 to the financial statements, an uncertainty
exists with respect to the actions of the regulators regarding the
recoverability of the Company's investment in the Rocky Mountain pumped storage
hydroelectric project.  The outcome of this uncertainty cannot be determined
until regulatory proceedings are concluded.  Accordingly, no provision for any
write-down of the costs associated with the Rocky Mountain project resulting
from the potential actions of the Georgia Public Service Commission has been
made in the accompanying financial statements.



                                                /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.

Atlanta, Georgia
February 16, 1994





                                      
                                    II-94

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION 
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EARNINGS

Georgia Power Company's 1993 earnings totaled $570 million, representing a $49
million (9.5 percent) increase over the prior year.  This improvement is
primarily a result of higher retail revenues and lower financing costs.  Also,
during the period, the Company had an $18 million after-tax gain on the sale of
a portion of Plant Scherer Unit 4.  Higher retail revenues reflect growth in
energy sales of 6.1 percent from 1992 levels primarily due to exceptionally hot
summer weather during 1993.  Interest expense and preferred stock dividends
decreased in 1993 due to the redemption and refinancing of higher-cost debt and
preferred stock.  These positive events were partially offset by higher
operating expenses.

  In comparing 1992 earnings to the prior year, it should be noted that 1991
earnings included two unusual items that significantly affect this comparison.
Earnings in 1991 were $89 million higher due to the completion of a settlement
agreement with Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States) related to power
sales contracts.  This increase was partially offset by an after-tax charge of
$33 million in 1991 for a work force reduction program.  A comparison of 1992
to 1991 -- excluding these unusual items -- would reflect a 1992 increase in
earnings of $102 million.

REVENUES

The following table summarizes the factors impacting operating revenues for the
1991-1993 period:

 

  Retail revenues of $3.8 billion in 1993 increased $262 million (7.4 percent)
over the prior year, compared with an increase of $87 million (2.5 percent) in
1992.  The exceptionally hot weather during the summer of 1993 was the primary
factor affecting the increase in retail revenues over 1992.  The increase in
retail revenues for 1992 was a result of higher retail rates and sales growth,
partially offset by mild weather and lower fuel revenues.  Fuel revenues
generally represent the direct recovery of fuel expense, including the fuel
component of purchased energy, and do not affect net income.  Revenues from
demand-side options programs generally represent the direct recovery of program
costs.  See Note 3 to the financial statements for further information on these
programs.

  Revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities decreased in both 1993 and
1992.  Contractual unit power sales to Florida utilities for 1993 and 1992 are
down compared with prior years, primarily due to scheduled reductions that
corresponded with the sales to these utilities of  portions of Plant Scherer
Unit 4 in July 1991 and June





                                      
                                    II-95

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


1993.  Sales to municipalities and cooperatives increased slightly in 1993 due
to the hot summer weather.  Generally, these sales have been decreasing as
these customers retain more of their own generation at facilities jointly owned
with the Company.

Revenues from sales to non-affiliated utilities outside the service area under
long-term contracts consist of capacity and energy components.  Capacity
revenues reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on investment under
the contracts.  Energy is generally sold at variable cost.  The capacity and
energy components were as follows:



  Revenues from sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric
system will vary from year to year depending on demand and the availability and
cost of generating resources at each company.  Sales to affiliated companies do
not have a significant impact on earnings.

  Changes in revenues are a function of the amount of energy sold each year.
Kilowatt-hour (KWH) sales for 1993 and the percent change by year were as
follows:



  The hot summer weather during 1993 contributed primarily to the sales growth
in the residential and commercial classes.  Continued improvement in economic
conditions positively impacted sales growth in the commercial and industrial
classes.  Residential energy sales growth in 1992 reflected mild weather.
Commercial and industrial sales growth in 1992 is attributable to improved
economic conditions.

  The decrease in energy sales to non-affiliated utilities reflects scheduled
reductions in contractual power sales.

EXPENSES

Fuel expense increased 2.3 percent in 1993 due to higher generation, which was
partially offset by lower nuclear fuel costs.  In 1992, fuel expense decreased
6.9 percent due to lower generation and lower fuel costs.  Purchased power
expense has decreased significantly since 1991, reflecting declining
contractual capacity purchases from the co-owners of plants Vogtle and Scherer.
Purchased power expense decreased $88 million in 1993 and $43 million in 1992.
The declines in Plant Vogtle contractual capacity purchases did not have a
significant impact on earnings in 1993 or 1992 as these costs are being
levelized over six years under the terms of the 1991 Georgia Public Service
Commission (GPSC) retail rate order.  The levelization is reflected in the
amortization of deferred Plant Vogtle expenses in the income statements.  See
Note 3 to the financial statements for additional information.

  Other Operation and Maintenance (O & M) expenses increased 9.0 percent in
1993 after remaining relatively flat in 1992.  The increase in 1993 is
primarily the result of environmental remediation costs at various current and
former operating sites, the one- time costs of an automotive fleet reduction
program and the recognition of higher employee benefit costs under new
accounting rules adopted in 1993.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for
additional information concerning these new rules.  Also, during 1993, O & M
expenses reflect costs associated with new demand-side option programs.  These
costs were offset by increases in retail revenues.  See Note 3 to the financial
statements for additional information on the recovery of demand-side option
program costs.

  Depreciation and amortization expense increased slightly due to additional
plant investment.  The 1992 decrease is due to the effects of lower
depreciation rates effective in October 1991.  Taxes other than income taxes
increased 7.4 percent in 1993 and 3.8 percent in 1992.





                                    II-96


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


These increases reflect higher ad valorem taxes.  The 1993 increase also
includes higher taxes paid to municipalities as a result of increased sales.

  Income tax expense increased $62 million in 1993 due primarily to higher
earnings and the effect of a one percent increase in the federal tax rate
effective January, 1993.  Also, the Company incurred $27 million of tax expense
in connection with the second in a series of four separate transactions to sell
Plant Scherer Unit 4.  The sale resulted in an after-tax gain of $18 million.

  Interest expense and dividends on preferred stock decreased $19 million (4.0
percent) and $49 million (9.3 percent) in 1993 and 1992, respectively.  These
reductions are due to significant refinancing of long-term debt and preferred
stock.  The Company refinanced $1.7 billion of securities in both 1993 and
1992.  In addition, the Company has retired $544 million of long-term debt with
the proceeds from the 1991 and 1993 Plant Scherer Unit 4 sales.  Other interest
charges in 1993 include interest related to the settlement of an Internal
Revenue Service audit.  The settlement, in total, did not have an effect on
1993 net income.

  The Company has deferred certain expenses and recorded a deferred return
related to Plant Vogtle under phase-in plans.  See Note 3 to the financial
statements under "Plant Vogtle Phase-In-Plans" for information regarding the
deferral and subsequent amortization of costs related to Plant Vogtle.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs.  Therefore, inflation creates an economic
loss because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in dollars that
have less purchasing power.  While the inflation rate has been relatively low
in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because
of the large investment in long-lived utility plant.  Conventional accounting
for historical cost does not recognize either this economic loss or the
partially offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with
fixed-money obligations such as long-term debt and preferred stock.  Any
recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of
return allowed.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings.  The level of future earnings depends on
numerous factors ranging from  growth in energy sales to regulatory matters.

  Growth in energy sales is subject to a number of factors which traditionally
have included changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, weather,
competition, and the rate of economic growth in the Company's service area.
Assuming normal weather, retail sales growth is projected to be approximately 2
percent annually on average during 1994 through 1996.

  The scheduled addition of four combustion turbine generating units in 1994,
four units in 1995 and one unit in 1996, as well as the Rocky Mountain pumped
storage hydroelectric project in 1995, will increase related O & M and
depreciation expenses.  See Note 4 to the financial statements for information
on regulatory uncertainties related to the Rocky Mountain project.  The GPSC
has certified the construction of the 1994 and 1995 combustion turbine
generating units for meeting peak generating needs.  In addition, the Company
has completed a demonstration competitive bidding process for its supply-side
requirements expected for 1996.  The Company has filed with the GPSC for
certification of a four-year purchase power agreement beginning in 1996, and
for construction of a jointly owned combustion turbine to be completed in 1996
to meet these needs.

  As part of efforts to curtail growth in operating expenses, the Company is
reducing its work force through an early-retirement program announced in
January 1994.  The program resulted in a first quarter 1994 after-tax charge to
earnings of $39 million.  The program has an expected payback period of
approximately two years.

  Pursuant to an Integrated Resource Plan approved by the GPSC in 1992, the
Company has implemented various demand-side option programs and has been
authorized by the GPSC to recover associated program costs through rate riders.
On October 15, 1993, a superior court judge ruled that recovery of these costs
through rate riders is unlawful.  The Company has ceased collection of the rate
riders and is deferring program costs as ordered by the




                                    II-97

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


GPSC pending the final outcome of this matter.  See Note 3 to the financial
statements for additional information.

  The Company has completed two in a series of four separate transactions to
sell Unit 4 of Plant Scherer to two Florida utilities.  The remaining
transactions are scheduled to take place in 1994 and 1995.  If the sales take
place as planned, the Company would realize an additional after-tax gain
estimated to total approximately $20 million.  See Note 5 to the financial
statements for additional information.

  Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air
Act) could reduce earnings if such costs cannot be billed to customers.  The
Clean Air Act is discussed later under "Environmental Issues."

  The Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) will have a profound effect on the
future of the electric utility industry.  The Energy Act promotes energy
efficiency, alternative fuel use, and increased competition among electric
utilities.  The law also includes provisions to streamline the licensing
process for new nuclear generating plants.  The Energy Act marks the beginning
of a major change in the traditional business practices of selling electricity.
The Energy Act allows Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and other electric
suppliers access to a utility's transmission lines to sell their electricity to
other utilities.  This may enhance the incentives for IPPs to build
cogeneration plants for the Company's large industrial and commercial
customers.  If the Company does not remain a low cost producer and provide
quality service, the Company's sales growth could be limited and this could
significantly erode earnings.

  The Company continues to compete with other electric suppliers within the
state.  In Georgia, most new retail customers with more than 900 kilowatts of
connected load may choose their electricity supplier.  In addition, the bulk
power market has become very competitive as utilities, IPPs and cogenerators
seek to supply future capacity needs.  Competition can create new business
opportunities, but it increases risk and has the potential to adversely affect
earnings.

   The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates wholesale rate
schedules and power sales contracts that the Company has with its sales for
resale customers.  The FERC currently is reviewing the rate of return on common
equity included in these schedules and contracts and may require such returns
to be lowered, possibly retroactively.  See Note 3 to the financial statements
under "FERC Review of Equity Returns" for additional information.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 112,
Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, which must be adopted by
1994.  The new standard requires that all types of benefits provided to former
or inactive employees and their families prior to retirement be accounted for
on an accrual basis.  These benefits include salary continuation, severance
pay, supplemental unemployment benefits, disability-related benefits, job
training, and health and life insurance coverage.  In 1993, the Company adopted
Statement No. 112, with no material effect on the financial statements.

  The FASB has issued Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities, which will be effective in 1994.  Statement No. 115
supersedes FASB Statement No. 12, Accounting for  Certain Marketable
Securities.  The Company adopted the new rules in January, 1994, with no
material effect on the financial statements.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

OVERVIEW

The principal changes in the Company's financial condition in 1993 were gross
utility plant additions of $674 million and the lowering of the cost of capital
achieved through the refinancing or retirement of $1.7 billion of long-term
debt and preferred stock.

  On January 1, 1993, the Company changed its methods of accounting for
postretirement benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.  See Notes 2 
and 7 to the financial statements regarding the impact of these changes.

   The funds needed for gross property additions are currently provided from
operations.  The Statements of Cash Flows provide additional details.


                                      
                                    II-98

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report




FINANCING ACTIVITIES

In 1993, the Company continued to lower its financing costs by issuing new
securities and other debt, and retiring or repaying high-cost issues.  New
issues during 1991 through 1993 totaled $3.0 billion and retirement or
repayment of securities totaled $4.2 billion.  The retirements included the
redemption of $253 million and $291 million in 1993 and 1991, respectively, of
first mortgage bonds with the proceeds from the Plant Scherer Unit 4 sales.
Composite financing rates for the years 1991 through 1993, as of year-end,
were as follows:



The Company's current securities ratings are as follows:



  * Not rated by Duff & Phelps

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

Cash provided from operations increased by $236 million in 1993, primarily due
to higher retail sales, lower interest costs, decreasing capacity purchases
from the co-owners of plants Vogtle and Scherer and the receipt of cash
payments from Gulf States that completed the settlement of litigation.

  The Company estimates that construction expenditures for the years 1994
through 1996 will total $688 million, $555 million and $629 million,
respectively.  The Company will continue to invest in transmission and
distribution facilities and enhance existing generating plants.  These
expenditures also include amounts for nine combustion turbine generating units
and equipment that will be required to comply with the provisions of the Clean
Air Act.
  The Company's contractual capacity purchases will decline by $113 million
over the next three years.  Cash requirements for sinking fund requirements,
redemptions announced, and maturities of long-term debt  are expected to total
$377 million during 1994 through 1996.

  As a result of requirements by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Company
has established external sinking funds for the purpose of funding nuclear
decommissioning costs.  For 1994 through 1996, the amount to be funded for the
Company totals $16 million annually.  For additional information concerning
nuclear decommissioning costs, see Note 1 to the financial statements under
"Nuclear Decommissioning."

SOURCES OF CAPITAL

The Company expects to meet future capital requirements primarily using funds
generated from operations and, if needed, by the issuance of new debt and
equity securities, term loans, and short-term borrowings.  To meet short-term
cash needs and contingencies, the Company had approximately $540 million of
unused credit arrangements with banks at the beginning of 1994.  See Note 8 to
the financial statements for additional information.

  Completing the remaining two transactions for the sale of Plant Scherer Unit
4 will generate approximately $130 million in both 1994 and in 1995.

   The Company is required to meet certain coverage requirements specified in
its mortgage indenture and corporate charter to issue new first mortgage bonds
and preferred stock.  The Company's ability to satisfy all coverage
requirements is such that it could issue new first mortgage bonds and preferred
stock to provide sufficient funds for all anticipated requirements.

ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law.  Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- will have a
significant impact on The Southern Company.  Specific reductions in sulfur
dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from fossil-fired generating plants will
be required in two phases.  Phase I compliance must be implemented in 1995 and
affects eight generating plants -- some 10,000 megawatts





                                    II-99

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


of capacity or 35 percent of total capacity -- in the Southern electric system.
Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and all fossil-fired generating plants
in the Southern electric system will be affected.

   Beginning in 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will allocate
annual sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the newly established
allowance trading program.  An emission allowance is the authority to emit one
ton of sulfur dioxide during a calendar year.  The method for allocating
allowances is based on the fossil fuel consumed from 1985 through 1987 for each
affected generating unit.  Emission allowances are transferable and can be
bought, sold, or banked and used in the future.

   The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to minimize the
cost of compliance.  The market for emission allowances is developing slower
than expected.  However, The Southern Company's sulfur dioxide compliance
strategy is designed to take advantage of allowances as the market develops.

   The Southern Company expects to achieve Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance at
the eight affected plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, and this has
required some equipment upgrades.  This compliance strategy is expected to
result in unused emission allowances being banked for later use.  Additional
construction expenditures are required to install equipment for the control of
nitrogen oxide emissions at these eight plants.  Also, continuous emissions
monitoring equipment would be installed on all fossil-fired units.  Under this
Phase I compliance approach, Georgia Power's construction expenditures are
estimated to total approximately $150 million through 1995.

   Phase II compliance costs are expected to be higher because requirements are
stricter and all fossil-fired generating plants are affected.  For sulfur
dioxide compliance, The Southern Company could use emission allowances banked
during Phase I, increase fuel switching, install flue gas desulfurization
equipment at selected plants, and/or purchase more allowances depending on the
price and availability of allowances.  Also, in Phase II, equipment to control
nitrogen oxide emissions will be installed on additional system fossil-fired
plants as required to meet anticipated Phase II limits.  Therefore, during the
period 1996 to 2000, compliance could require total Georgia Power construction
expenditures ranging from approximately $150 million to $325 million.  However,
the full impact of Phase II compliance cannot now be determined with certainty,
pending the development of a market for emission allowances, the completion of
EPA regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction technologies.

   An increase of up to 2 percent in Georgia Power's annual revenue
requirements from customers could be necessary to fully recover the cost of
compliance for both Phase I and Phase II of the Clean Air Act.  Compliance
costs include construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to
low-sulfur coal, and costs related to emission allowances.  There can be no
assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will be recovered.

   Metropolitan Atlanta is classified as a non-attainment area with regard to
the ozone ambient air quality standards.  Title I of the Clean Air Act requires
the state of Georgia to conduct specific studies and establish new control
rules by November 1994 -- affecting sources of nitrogen oxides and volatile
organic compounds -- to achieve attainment by 1999.  As the required first
step, the state has issued rules for the application of reasonably available
control technology to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by May 31, 1995.  The
results of these new rules require nitrogen oxide controls, above Title IV
requirements, on some Company plants.  Final attainment rules, based on
modeling studies, could require installation of additional controls for
nitrogen oxide emissions as early as 1997.  Compliance with any new rules could
result in significant additional costs.  The impact of new rules will depend on
the development and implementation of such rules.

   Title III of the Clean Air Act requires a multi-year EPA study of power
plant emissions of hazardous air pollutants.  The study will serve as the basis
for a decision on whether additional regulatory control of these substances is
warranted.  Compliance with any new control standards could result in
significant additional costs.  The impact of new standards -- if any -- will
depend on the development and implementation of applicable regulations.

   The EPA continues to evaluate the need for a new short-term ambient air
quality standard for sulfur dioxide.  Preliminary results from an EPA study on
the impact of a





                                      
                                    II-100

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


new standard indicate that a number of plants could be required to install
sulfur dioxide controls.  These controls would be in addition to the controls
already required to meet the acid rain provision of the Clean Air Act.  The EPA
is expected to take some action on this issue in 1994.  In addition, the EPA is
evaluating the need to revise the ambient air quality standards for particulate
matter, nitrogen oxides, and ozone.  The impact of any new standards will
depend on the level chosen for the standards and cannot be determined at this
time.

   In 1994 or 1995, the EPA is expected to issue revised rules on air quality
control regulations related to stack height requirements of the Clean Air Act.
The full impact of the final rules cannot be determined at this time, pending
their development and implementation.

   In 1993, the EPA issued a ruling confirming the nonhazardous status of coal
ash.  However, the EPA has until 1998 to classify co-managed utility wastes --
coal ash and other utility wastes -- as either nonhazardous or hazardous.  If
the EPA classifies the co-managed wastes as hazardous, then substantial
additional costs for the management of such wastes may be required.  The full
impact of any change in the regulatory status will depend on the subsequent
development of co-managed waste requirements.

  The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations that
cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste.  These laws include the
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980
(CERCLA or Superfund).  Under these various laws and regulations, the Company
could incur costs to clean up properties currently or previously owned.  The
Company conducts studies to determine the extent of any required clean-up costs
and has recognized costs to clean-up known sites in the financial statements.

   Several major pieces of environmental legislation are in the process of
being reauthorized or amended by Congress.  These include:  the Clean Water
Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act;
and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  Changes to these laws could
affect many areas of the Company's operations.  The full impact of these
requirements cannot be determined at this time, pending the development and
implementation of applicable regulations.

   Compliance with possible new legislation related to global climate change,
electromagnetic fields and other environmental and health concerns could
significantly affect the Company.  The impact of new legislation -- if any --
will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of applicable
regulations.  In addition, the potential for lawsuits alleging damages caused
by electromagnetic fields exists.





                                    II-101



STATEMENTS OF INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                    II-102







BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.








                                    II-103



BALANCE SHEETS
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                       

                                    II-104



                                       


STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
AT December 31, 1993 and 1992
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report







                                       


                                    II-105


                                       


STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
At December 31, 1993 and 1992
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                       

                                    II-106




STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                    II-107




STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.







                                    II-108

                                     


NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

GENERAL

The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Southern Company, which is the
parent company of five operating companies, Southern Company Services (SCS),
Southern Electric International (Southern Electric), and Southern Nuclear
Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), and various other subsidiaries related to
foreign utility operations and domestic non-utility operations.  The operating
companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company,
Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah Electric and Power Company) provide
electric service in four southeastern states.  Intracompany contracts dealing
with jointly owned generating facilities, transmission lines and exchange of
electric power are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)
or the Securities and Exchange Commission.  SCS provides, at cost, specialized
services to The Southern Company and each of the subsidiary companies.
Southern Electric designs, builds, owns, and operates power production
facilities and provides a broad range of technical services to industrial
companies and utilities in the United States and a number of international
markets.  Southern Nuclear provides support services for nuclear power plants
in the Southern electric system.

  The Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935.  Both The Southern Company and its
subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory provisions of this act.  The Company
is also subject to regulation by the FERC and the Georgia Public Service
Commission (GPSC).  The Company follows generally accepted accounting
principles and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed
by the respective regulatory commissions.

  Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

REVENUES AND FUEL COSTS

The Company accrues revenues for services rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period.  Fuel costs are expensed as fuel is used.  The Company is
authorized by state law and FERC regulations to recover fuel costs and the fuel
component of purchased energy costs through fuel cost recovery provisions,
which are periodically adjusted to reflect increases or decreases in such
costs.  Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs
and amounts actually recovered in current rates.  Fuel costs were under
recovered by $79 million and $4 million at December 31, 1993, and 1992,
respectively.  These amounts are included in customer accounts receivable on
the balance sheets.  The fuel cost recovery rate was increased effective
December 6, 1993.

  The cost of nuclear fuel is amortized to fuel expense based on estimated
thermal units used to generate electric energy and includes a provision for the
disposal of spent fuel.  Total charges for nuclear fuel amortized to expense
were $75 million in 1993, $84 million in 1992, and $93 million in 1991.  The
Company has contracted with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) for permanent
disposal of spent fuel beginning in 1998; however, the actual year this service
will begin is uncertain.  Pending permanent disposition of the spent fuel,
sufficient storage capacity is available at Plant Hatch into 2003 and at Plant
Vogtle into 2009.  Also, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 required the
establishment in 1993 of a Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and
Decommissioning Fund which is to be funded, in part, by a special assessment on
utilities with nuclear plants.  This fund will be used by the DOE for the
decontamination and decommissioning of its nuclear fuel enrichment facilities.
The law provides that utilities will recover these payments in the same manner
as any other fuel expense.  The Company -- based on its ownership interest --
estimates its total assessment under this law to be approximately $42 million
to be paid over a 15-year period beginning in 1993.  This obligation is
recognized in the accompanying Balance Sheets and is being recovered through
the fuel cost recovery provisions.  The remaining liability at December 31,
1993, is $39 million.





                                       

                                    II-109

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report

NUCLEAR REFUELING OUTAGE COSTS

Prior to 1992, the Company expensed nuclear refueling outage costs as incurred
during the outage period.  Pursuant to the 1991 GPSC retail rate order, the
Company began accounting for these costs on a normalized basis in 1992.  Under
this method of accounting, refueling outage costs are deferred and subsequently
amortized to expense over the operating cycle of each unit, which is normally
18 months.  Deferred nuclear outage costs were $17 million and $6 million at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

DEPRECIATION

Depreciation is provided on the cost of depreciable utility plant in service
and is calculated primarily on the straight-line basis over the estimated
composite service life of the property.  The composite rate of depreciation was
3.1 percent in 1993 and 1992, and 3.2 percent in 1991.  Effective October 1991,
the Company adopted lower depreciation rates consistent with the 1991 GPSC
retail rate order.  When a property unit is retired or otherwise disposed of in
the normal course of business, its costs and the costs of removal, less
salvage, are charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation.  Minor
items of property included in the cost of the plant are retired when the
related property unit is retired.

NUCLEAR DECOMMISSIONING

In 1988, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) adopted regulations requiring
all licensees operating commercial nuclear power reactors to establish a plan
for providing, with reasonable assurance, funds for decommissioning.
Reasonable assurance may be in the form of an external sinking fund, a surety
method, or prepayment.  The Company has established external trust funds to
comply with the NRC's regulations.  Prior to the enactment of these
regulations, the Company had internally reserved nuclear decommissioning costs.
The NRC's minimum external funding requirements are based on a generic estimate
of the cost to decommission the radioactive portions of a nuclear unit based on
the size and type of reactor.

  The estimated cost of decommissioning and the amounts being recovered through
rates at December 31, 1993, for the Company's ownership interest in plants

Hatch and Vogtle were as follows:


  The amounts in the internal reserve are being transferred into the external
trust fund over a period of approximately nine years as approved by the GPSC in
its 1991 retail rate order.

  The estimates approved by the GPSC for ratemaking exclude costs of
non-radiated structures and site contingency costs.  The actual decommissioning
cost may vary from the above estimates because of regulatory requirements,
changes in technology, and increased costs of labor, materials, and equipment.
The decommissioning cost  estimates are based on prompt dismantlement and
removal of the plant from service.  The Company expects the GPSC to
periodically review and adjust, if necessary, the amounts collected in rates
for the anticipated cost of decommissioning.

PLANT VOGTLE PHASE-IN PLANS

In 1987 and 1989, the GPSC ordered that the costs of Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2
be phased into rates under plans that meet the requirements of Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 92, Accounting for Phase-In
Plans.  In 1991, the GPSC modified the phase-in plans.  In addition, the
Company deferred certain Plant Vogtle operating expenses and financing costs
under accounting orders issued by the GPSC.  See Note 3 for further
information.
                                    II-110

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report

INCOME TAXES

The Company provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences.  Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

  In years prior to 1993, income taxes were accounted for and reported under
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 11.  Effective January 1, 1993, the
Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.  See Note
7 to the financial statements for further information.

ALLOWANCE FOR FUNDS USED DURING CONSTRUCTION (AFUDC) AND DEFERRED RETURN

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities.  While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense.  For the years 1993, 1992 and 1991, the average AFUDC
rates were 4.87 percent, 7.16 percent and 9.90 percent, respectively.  The
reduction in the average AFUDC rate since 1991 reflects the Company's greater
use of lower cost short-term debt.

  The Company also imputed a return on its investment in Plant Vogtle Units 1
and 2 after they began commercial operation, under short-term cost deferrals
and phase-in plans as described in Note 3.  AFUDC and the Vogtle deferred
returns, net of taxes, as a percentage of net income after dividends on
preferred stock, amounted to 1.4 percent, 2.1 percent and 9.2 percent for 1993,
1992 and 1991, respectively.

UTILITY PLANT

Utility plant is stated at original cost with the exception of Plant Vogtle,
which is stated at cost less regulatory disallowances.  Original cost includes
materials; labor; appropriate administrative and general costs; payroll-related
costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the estimated cost of
funds used during construction.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents.  Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

All financial instruments of the Company -- for which the carrying amount does
not approximate fair value -- are shown in the table below at December 31:

  The fair values of nuclear decommissioning trusts and investment securities
were based on listed closing market prices.  The fair values for long-term debt
and preferred stock subject to mandatory redemption were based on either
closing market prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution and generating plant materials.  Materials are charged to
inventory when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as
appropriate, when installed.  In December 1992, the Company converted to the
inventory method of accounting for certain emergency spare parts.  This
conversion resulted in a regulatory liability that is being amortized as
credits to income over                                       

                                    II-111

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


approximately four years.  This conversion will not have a material effect on
income in any year.

VACATION PAY

Company employees earn vacation in one year and take it in the subsequent year.
However, for ratemaking purposes, vacation pay is recognized as an allowable
expense only when paid.  Consistent with this ratemaking treatment, the Company
accrues a current liability for earned vacation pay and records a current asset
representing the future recoverability of this cost.  This amount was $42
million at December 31, 1993, and $40 million at December 31, 1992.  In 1994,
approximately 72 percent of the 1993 deferred vacation costs will be expensed,
and the balance will be charged to construction and other accounts.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

PENSION PLAN

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan 
covering substantially all regular employees.  Benefits are based on the 
greater of amounts resulting from two different formulas: years of service and 
final average pay or years of service and a flat dollar benefit.  The Company 
uses the "entry age normal method with a frozen initial liability" actuarial 
method for funding purposes, subject to limitations under federal income tax 
regulations.  Amounts funded to the pension  fund are primarily invested in 
equity and fixed-income securities.  FASB Statement No. 87, Employers' 
Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the projected unit credit actuarial 
method for financial reporting purposes.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The Company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees.  Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire.  For medical care benefits, a qualified trust has
been established for funding amounts to the extent deductible under federal
income tax regulations.  Amounts funded are primarily invested in debt and
equity securities.  Accrued costs of life insurance benefits, other than
current cash payments for retirees, currently are not being funded.

  Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 106,
Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, on a
prospective basis.  Statement No. 106 requires that medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis
using a specified actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."

  In October 1993, the GPSC ordered the Company to phase in the adoption of
Statement No. 106 to cost of service over a five-year period, whereby one-fifth
of the additional expense was recognized -- approximately $6 million -- in 1993
and the remaining additional expense was deferred.  An additional one-fifth of
the costs will be expensed each succeeding year until the costs are fully
reflected in cost of service in 1997.  The cost deferred during the five-year
period will be amortized to expense over a 15-year period beginning in 1998.
As a result of the regulatory treatment allowed by the GPSC, the adoption of
Statement No. 106 did not have a material impact on net income.

  Prior to 1993, the Company recognized these cost on a cash basis as payments
were made.  The total costs of such benefits recognized by the Company in 1993,
1992, and 1991 were $56 million, $13 million, and $9 million, respectively.

STATUS AND COST OF BENEFITS

Shown in the following tables are actuarial results and assumptions for pension
and postretirement medical and life insurance benefits as computed under the
requirements of Statement Nos. 87 and 106, respectively.  Retiree medical and
life insurance information is shown only for 1993 because Statement  No. 106
was adopted as





                                    II-112


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


of January 1, 1993, on a prospective basis.  The funded status of the plans at
December 31 was as follows:





Weighted average rates used in actuarial calculations:



  An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
medical benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate
of 11.3 percent for 1993, decreasing gradually to 6.0 percent through the year
2000 and remaining at that level thereafter.  An annual increase in the assumed
medical care cost trend rate by 1.0 percent would increase the accumulated
medical benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993, by $68 million and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net retiree
medical cost by $7 million.

The components of the plans' net costs are shown below:
                                                  


  Of net pension costs (income) recorded, $(6) million in 1993 and $5 million
in 1991, were recorded to operating expense, with the balance being recorded to
construction and other accounts.





                                       

                                    II-113

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


     Of the above net postretirement medical and life insurance costs recorded
in 1993, $21 million was charged to operating expenses, $21 million was
deferred, and the remainder was charged to construction and other accounts.

3.  LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS

DEMAND-SIDE CONSERVATION PROGRAMS

In October 1993, a Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, judge ruled that
rate riders previously approved by the GPSC for recovery of the Company's costs
incurred in connection with demand-side conservation programs were unlawful.
The judge held that the GPSC lacked  statutory authority to approve such rate
riders except through general rate case proceedings and that those procedures
had not been followed.  The Company has suspended collection of the demand-side
conservation costs and appealed the court's decision to the Georgia Court of
Appeals.  In December 1993, the GPSC approved the Company's request  for an
accounting order allowing the Company to defer all current unrecovered and
future costs related to these programs until the court's decision is reversed
or until the next general rate case proceeding.  An association of industrial
customers has filed a petition for review of such accounting order in the
Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia.  The Company's costs related to these
conservation programs through 1993 were $60 million of which $15 million has
been collected and the remainder deferred.  The estimated costs, assuming no
change in the programs certified by the GPSC, are $38 million in 1994 and $40
million in 1995.

  The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse effect
on these financial statements.

RETAIL RATEPAYERS' SUIT CONCLUDED

In March 1993, several retail ratepayers of Georgia Power filed a civil
complaint in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, against Georgia
Power, The Southern Company, the system service company, and Arthur Andersen &
Co.  The complaint alleged that Georgia Power obtained excessive rate increases
by improper accounting for spare parts and sought actual damages estimated by
the plaintiffs to be in excess of $60 million -- plus treble and punitive
damages -- for alleged violations of the Georgia Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act and other state statutes, statutory and common law
fraud, and negligence.  These state law allegations were substantially the same
as those included in a 1989 suit brought in federal district court in Georgia.
That suit and similar ones filed in Alabama, Florida, and Mississippi federal
courts were subsequently dismissed.

  The defendants' motions to dismiss the current complaint were granted by the
Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, in July 1993.  In January 1994, the
plaintiffs' appeal of the dismissal to the Supreme Court of Georgia was
rejected.  This matter is now concluded.

GULF STATES SETTLEMENT

On November 7, 1991, subsidiaries of The Southern Company entered into a
settlement agreement with Gulf States that resolved litigation between the
companies that had been pending since 1986 and arose out of a dispute over
certain unit power and long-term power sales contracts.  In 1993, all remaining
terms and obligations of the settlement agreement were satisfied.

  Based on the value of the settlement proceeds received, the Company recorded
increases of $3 million in 1992 and $89 million in 1991 net income.

FERC REVIEW OF EQUITY RETURNS

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater.  The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power, and other similar contracts.
Any changes in the rate of return on common equity that may occur as a result
of this proceeding would be effective 60 days after a proper notice of the
proceeding is published.  A notice was published on May 10, 1991.

  In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest.  The FERC
staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the
matter remains pending before the FERC.





                                    II-114


NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report

  The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's financial statements.

PLANT VOGTLE PHASE-IN PLANS

Pursuant to orders from the GPSC, the Company recorded a deferred return under
phase-in plans for Plant Vogtle Units 1 and 2 until October 1991 when the
allowed investment was fully reflected in rates.  In addition, the GPSC issued
two separate accounting orders that required the Company to defer substantially
all operating and financing costs related to both units until rate orders
addressed these costs.  These GPSC orders provide for the recovery of deferred
costs within 10 years.  The GPSC modified the phase-in plans in 1991 to
accelerate the recognition of costs previously deferred under the Plant Vogtle
Unit 2 phase-in plan and to levelize the remaining Plant Vogtle declining
capacity buyback expenses.

  Under these orders, the Company has deferred and begun amortizing these costs
(as recovered through rates) as follows:


NUCLEAR PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

In October 1989, the GPSC adopted a nuclear performance standard for the
Company's nuclear generating units under which the performance of plants Hatch
and Vogtle will be evaluated every three years.  The performance standard is
based on each unit's capacity factor as compared to the average of all U.S.
nuclear units operating at a capacity factor of 50% or higher during the
three-year period of evaluation.  Depending on the performance of the units,
the Company could receive a monetary reward or penalty under the performance
standards criteria.  The first evaluation was conducted in 1993 for performance
during the 1990-92 period.  During this three-year period, the Company's units
performed at an average capacity factor of 81 percent compared to an industry
average of approximately 73 percent.  Based on these results, the GPSC approved
a performance reward of approximately $8.5 million for the Company.  This
reward is being collected through the retail fuel cost recovery provision and
recognized in income over a 36- month period beginning November, 1993.

4.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program and currently
estimates property additions to be approximately $688 million in 1994, $555
million in 1995 and $629 million in 1996.  These estimated additions include
AFUDC of $19 million in 1994, $27 million in 1995, and $18 million in 1996.
The estimates for property additions for the three-year period include $88
million committed to meeting the requirements of the Clean Air Act.

  While the Company has no new baseload generating plants under construction,
the construction of nine combustion turbine peaking units is planned to be
completed by 1996.  In addition, significant construction of transmission and
distribution facilities, and upgrading and extending the useful life of
generating plants will continue.  The construction program is subject to
periodic review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from
estimates because of numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes
in business conditions, load growth estimates, environmental regulations, and
regulatory requirements.

                                    II-115

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


FUEL COMMITMENTS

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
Company has entered into various long-term commitments for the procurement of
fossil and nuclear fuel.  In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
price escalations, minimum purchase levels and other financial commitments.
Total estimated long-term obligations were approximately $4.8 billion at
December 31, 1993.  Additional commitments for coal and for nuclear fuel will
be required in the future to supply the Company's fuel needs.

OPERATING LEASES

The Company has entered into coal rail car rental agreements with various terms
and expiration dates.  Rental expense totaled $8 million, $7 million, and $5
million for 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.  Minimum annual rental
commitments for noncancellable rail car leases are $9 million annually for
years 1994 through 1998, and total approximately $191 million thereafter.

ROCKY MOUNTAIN PROJECT STATUS

In its 1985 financing order, the GPSC concluded that completion of the Rocky
Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric project in 1991 as then planned was not
economically justifiable and reasonable and withheld authorization for the
Company to spend funds from approved securities issuances on that project.  In
1988, the Company and Oglethorpe Power Corporation (OPC) entered into a joint
ownership agreement for OPC to assume responsibility for the construction and
operation of the project, as discussed in Note 5.  The joint ownership
agreement significantly reduces the risk of the project being canceled.
However, full recovery of the Company's costs depends on the GPSC's treatment
of the project's cost and disposition of the project's capacity output.  In the
event the Company cannot demonstrate to the GPSC the project's economic
viability based on current ownership, construction schedule, and costs, then
part or all of such costs may have to be written off in accordance with FASB
Statement No. 90, Accounting for Abandonments and Disallowed Plant Costs.  At
December 31, 1993, the Company's investment in the project amounted to
approximately $197 million.  AFUDC accrued on the Rocky Mountain project has not
been credited to income or included in the project cost since December 1985.
If accrual of AFUDC is not resumed, the Company's portion of the estimated
total plant additions at completion would be approximately $199 million.  The
plant is currently scheduled to begin commercial operation in 1995.

  The Company has held preliminary discussions with other parties regarding the
potential disposition of its remaining interest in the project.

  The ultimate outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.

NUCLEAR INSURANCE

Under the Price-Anderson Amendments Act of 1988, the Company maintains
agreements of indemnity with the NRC that, together with private insurance,
cover third-party liability arising from any nuclear incident occurring at the
Company's nuclear power plants.  The act limits to $9.4 billion public
liability claims that could arise from a single nuclear incident.  Each nuclear
plant is insured against this liability to a maximum of $200 million by private
insurance, with the remaining coverage provided by a mandatory program of
deferred premiums that could be assessed, after a nuclear incident, against all
owners of nuclear reactors.  A company could be assessed up to $79 million per
incident for each licensed reactor it operates but not more than an aggregate
of $10 million per incident to be paid in a calendar year for each reactor.
Such maximum assessment for the Company -- based on its ownership and buyback
interests -- is $171 million per incident but not more than an aggregate of $22
million to be paid for each incident in any one year.

  The Company is a member of Nuclear Mutual Limited (NML), a mutual insurer
established to provide property damage insurance in an amount up to $500
million for members' nuclear generating facilities.  The members are subject to
a retrospective premium adjustment in the event that losses exceed accumulated
reserve funds.  The Company's maximum assessment per incident is limited to $18
million under current policies.

  Additionally, the Company has policies that currently provide
decontamination, excess property insurance, and premature decommissioning
coverage up to $2.25 billion for losses in excess of the $500 million NML
coverage.  This excess insurance is provided by Nuclear Electric





                                    II-116

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report

Insurance Limited (NEIL), a mutual insurance company, and American Nuclear
Insurers/Mutual Atomic Energy Liability Underwriters.

  NEIL also covers the additional costs that would be incurred in obtaining
replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage at a member's nuclear
plant.  Members can be insured against increased costs of replacement power in
an amount up to $3.5 million per week -- starting 21 weeks after the outage --
for one year and up to $2.3 million per week for the second and third years.

  Under each of the NEIL policies, members are subject to assessments if losses
each year exceed the accumulated funds available to the insurer under that
policy.  The maximum assessments per incident under the current policies for
the Company would be $15 million for excess property damage and $13 million for
replacement power.

  For all on-site property damage insurance policies for commercial nuclear
power plants, the NRC requires that the proceeds of such policies issued or
renewed on or after April 2, 1991, shall be dedicated first for the sole
purpose of placing the reactor in a safe and stable condition after an
accident.  Any remaining proceeds are to be applied next toward the costs of
decontamination and debris removal operations ordered by the NRC, and any
further remaining proceeds are to be paid either to the Company or to its bond
trustees as may be appropriate under the policies and applicable trust
indentures.

  The Company participates in an insurance program for nuclear workers that
provides coverage for worker tort claims filed for bodily injury caused at
commercial nuclear power plants.  In the event that claims for this insurance
exceed the accumulated reserve funds, the Company could be subject to a maximum
total assessment of $7 million.

5.  FACILITY SALES AND JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS

Since 1975, the Company has sold undivided interests in plants Hatch, Wansley,
Vogtle, and Scherer Units 1 and 2, together with transmission facilities, to
OPC, an electric membership generation and transmission corporation; the
Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia (MEAG), a public corporation and an
instrumentality of the state of Georgia; and the City of Dalton, Georgia.  The
Company has sold an interest in Plant Scherer Unit 3 to Gulf Power, an
affiliate.

  Additionally, the Company has completed two of four separate transactions to
sell Unit 4 of Plant Scherer to Florida Power & Light Company (FPL) and
Jacksonville Electric Authority (JEA) for a total price of approximately $806
million, including any gains on these transactions.  FPL will eventually own
approximately 76.4 percent of the unit, with JEA owning the remainder.  Georgia
Power will continue to operate the unit.

  The completed and scheduled remaining transactions are as follows:



  Except as otherwise noted, the Company has contracted to operate and maintain
all jointly owned facilities.  The Company includes its proportionate share of
plant operating expenses in the corresponding operating expenses in the
Statements of Income.

  As discussed in Note 4, the Company and OPC have a joint ownership
arrangement for the Rocky Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric project under
which the Company will retain its present investment in the project and OPC
will finance and complete the remainder of the project and operate the
completed facility.  Based on current cost estimates the Company's ownership
will be approximately 25% of the project (194 megawatts of capacity) at
completion.

  The Company will own six of eight 80 megawatt combustion turbine generating
units and 75% of the related common facilities being jointly constructed with
Savannah Electric, an affiliate.  The Company's investment in the project at
December 31, 1993, was $100 million and is expected to total approximately $182
million when the project is completed.  All units are


                                    II-117

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


expected to be completed by June, 1995.  Savannah Electric will operate these
units.

  In connection with the joint ownership arrangements for plants Vogtle and
Scherer, the Company has made commitments to purchase declining fractions of
OPC's and MEAG's capacity and energy from these units.  These commitments are
in effect during periods of up to 10 years following commercial operation (and
with regard to a portion of a 5 percent interest in Plant Vogtle owned by MEAG,
until the latter of the retirement of the plant or the latest stated maturity
date of MEAG's bonds issued to finance such ownership interest).  The payments
for capacity are required whether or not any capacity is available.  The energy
cost is a function of each unit's variable operating costs.  Except as noted
below, the cost of such capacity and energy is included in purchased power from
non-affiliates in the Company's Statements of Income.  Capacity payments
totaled $183 million, $289 million and $320 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991,
respectively.  The Plant Scherer buyback agreements ended in 1993.  The current
projected Plant Vogtle capacity payments for the next five years are as
follows:  $132 million in 1994, $77 million in 1995, $70 million in 1996, $59
million in 1997 and $59 million in 1998.  Portions of the payments noted above
relate to costs in excess of Plant Vogtle's allowed investment for ratemaking
purposes.  The present value of these portions was written off in 1987 and
1990.  Additionally, the Plant Vogtle declining capacity buyback expense is
being levelized over a six-year period.  See Note 3 for further information.

  At December 31, 1993, the Company's percentage ownership and investment
(exclusive of nuclear fuel) in jointly owned facilities in commercial
operation, were as follows: 


(1)  Investment net of write-offs.

  The Company and an affiliate, Alabama Power, own equally all of the
outstanding capital stock of Southern Electric Generating Company (SEGCO),
which owns electric generating units with a total rated capacity of 1,020
megawatts, as well as associated transmission facilities.  The capacity of the
units has been sold equally to the Company and Alabama Power under a contract
expiring in 1994, which, in substance, requires payments sufficient to provide
for the operating expenses, taxes, debt service and return on investment,
whether or not SEGCO has any capacity and energy available.  An amended
contract has been filed with the FERC with substantially the same provisions,
but the term thereof would be extended automatically for two year periods,
subject to any party's right to cancel upon two year's notice.  The Company's
share of expenses included in purchased power from affiliates in the Statements
of




                                       
                                    II-118

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


Income, is as follows:



  At December 31, 1993, the capitalization of SEGCO consisted of $58 million of
equity and $84 million of long-term debt on which the annual interest
requirement is $3.8 million.

6.  LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

The Company and the operating affiliates of The Southern Company have entered
into long-term contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to
certain non-affiliated utilities located outside the system's service
territory.  Certain of these agreements are non-firm and are based on the
capacity of the Southern system.  Other agreements are firm and pertain to
capacity related to specific generating units.  Because energy is generally
sold at cost under these agreements, it is primarily the capacity revenues that
affect the Company's profitability.  The capacity revenues have been as
follows:



  Long-term non-firm power of 400 megawatts was sold by the Southern electric
system in 1993 to Florida Power Corporation (FPC).  This amount decreases to
200 megawatts in 1994 and the contract expires at year-end.  Sales under these
long-term non-firm power sales agreements are made from available power pool
energy, and the revenues from the sales are shared by the operating affiliates.

  Unit power from specific generating plants is being sold to FPL, JEA, and the
City of Tallahassee, Florida and beginning in 1994 to FPC.  Under these
agreements, the Company sold approximately 830 megawatts of capacity in 1993
and is scheduled to sell approximately 403 megawatts of capacity in 1994.
Thereafter, these sales will decline to an estimated 157 megawatts by the end
of 1996 and will remain at that approximate level through 1999.  After 2000,
capacity sales will decline to approximately 101 megawatts -- unless reduced by
FPL and JEA -- until the expiration of the contracts in 2010.

7.  INCOME TAXES

Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes.  The adoption of Statement No.  109 resulted in
cumulative adjustments that had no material effect on net income.  The adoption
also resulted in the recording of additional deferred income taxes and related
assets and liabilities.  The related assets of $993 million are revenues to be
received from customers.  These assets are attributable to tax benefits
flowed-through to customers in prior years,  and taxes applicable to
capitalized AFUDC.  The related liabilities of $453 million are revenues to be
refunded to customers.  These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes
previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to
unamortized investment tax credits.  Additionally, deferred income taxes
related to accelerated tax depreciation previously shown as a reduction to
utility plant were reclassified.

  Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:








                                    II-119

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


  The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
basis, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:




  Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the related
property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income.  Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $19 million in 1993, $19 million in 1992, and $27 million in 1991.
At December 31, 1993, all investment tax credits available to reduce federal
income taxes payable had been utilized.

  A reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate to effective income tax
rate is as follows:



  The Southern Company and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income
tax return.  Under a joint consolidated income tax agreement, each company's
current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis, and
consolidated tax savings are allocated to each company based on its ratio of
taxable income to total consolidated taxable income.

8.  CAPITALIZATION

COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

  The Company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various common stock
dividend restrictions that remain in effect as long as the bonds are
outstanding.  At December 31, 1993, $742 million of retained earnings were
restricted against the payment of cash dividends on common stock under terms of
the mortgage indenture.  Supplemental indentures in connection with future
first mortgage bond issues may contain more stringent common stock dividend
restrictions than those currently in effect.

  The Company's charter limits cash dividends on common stock to the lesser of
the retained earnings balance or 75 percent of net income available for such
stock during a prior period of 12 months if the ratio of common stock equity to
total capitalization, including retained earnings, adjusted to reflect the
payment of the proposed dividend, is below 25 percent, and to 50 percent of
such net income if such ratio is less than 20 percent.  At December 31, 1993,
the ratio as defined was  46.1 percent.


                                       

                                    II-120

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report

REMARKETED BONDS

In 1992, the Company issued two series of variable rate first mortgage  bonds
each with principal amounts of $100 million due 2032.  The current composite
interest rate on the bonds is 6.20 percent and is fixed for the first three
years of the issues.

POLLUTION CONTROL BONDS

The Company has incurred obligations in connection with the sale by public
authorities of tax-exempt pollution control and industrial development revenue
bonds.  The Company has authenticated and delivered to trustees an aggregate of
$407.7 million of its first mortgage bonds, which are pledged as security for
its obligations under pollution control and industrial development contracts.
No interest on these first mortgage bonds is payable unless and until a default
occurs on the installment purchase or loan agreements.  An aggregate of
approximately $1.3 billion of the pollution control and industrial development
bonds is secured by a subordinated interest in specific property of the
Company.

  Details of pollution control bonds are as follows:

BANK CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS

At the beginning of 1994, the Company had unused credit arrangements with banks
totaling $540 million, of which $10 million expires June 30, 1994,  $130
million expires at May 1, 1996, and $400 million expires at June 30, 1996.

  The $400 million expiring June 30, 1996, is under revolving credit
arrangements with several banks providing the Company, Alabama Power, and The
Southern Company up to a total credit amount of $400 million.  To provide
liquidity support for commercial paper programs and for other short-term cash
needs, $165 million and $135 million of the $400 million available credit are
currently dedicated for the Company and Alabama Power, respectively.  However,
the allocations can be changed among the borrowers by notifying the respective
banks.

  During the term of the agreements expiring in 1996, short-term borrowings may
be converted into term loans, payable in 12 equal quarterly installments, with
the first installment due at the end of the first calendar quarter after the
applicable termination date or at an earlier date at the companies' option.  In
addition, these agreements require payment of commitment fees based on the
unused portions of the commitments or the maintenance of compensating balances
with the banks.

  The $10 million credit arrangement expiring in 1994 allows borrowings for up
to 90 days.  Commitment fees are based on the unused portion of the commitment.

  In addition, the Company borrows under uncommitted lines of credit with banks
and through a $150 million commercial paper program that has the liquidity
support of committed bank credit arrangements.  Average compensating balances
held under these committed facilities were not material in 1993.

OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded in the Balance Sheets as
utility plant in service, and the related obligations are classified as
long-term debt.  At December 31, 1993, the Company had a capitalized lease
obligation for its corporate headquarters building of $88 million with an
interest rate of 8.1 percent.  Other capitalized lease obligations were $137
thousand with a composite interest rate of 6.8 percent.

  The maturities of capital lease obligations through 1998 are approximately as
follows: $423 thousand in 1994, $309 thousand in 1995, $335 thousand in 1996,
$362 thousand in 1997, and $392 thousand in 1998.

  The lease agreement for the corporate headquarters building provides for
payments that are minimal in early years and escalate through the first 21
years of the lease.  For ratemaking purposes, the GPSC has treated the lease as
an operating lease and has allowed only the lease

                                    II-121

NOTES (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report


payments in cost of service.  The difference between the accrued expense and
the lease payments allowed for ratemaking purposes is being deferred as a cost
to be recovered in the future as ordered by the GPSC.  At December 31, 1993,
and 1992, the interest and lease amortization deferred on the Balance Sheets
are $47 million and $48 million, respectively.

  In December 1993, the Company borrowed $37 million through a long-term note
due in 1995.

ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN

The Company's mortgage dated as of March 1, 1941, as amended and supplemented,
securing the first mortgage bonds issued by the Company, constitutes a direct
lien on substantially all of the Company's fixed property and franchises.

LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

The current portion of the Company's long-term debt is as follows:



*Less than .1 million

  The indenture's first mortgage bond improvement fund requirement amounts to 1
percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the indenture
prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to collateralize
pollution control obligations.  The requirement may be satisfied by depositing
cash or reacquired bonds, or by pledging additional property equal to 1 2/3
times the requirement.  The 1993 and 1992 requirements were met in the first
quarter of each year by depositing cash subsequently used to redeem bonds.  The
1994 requirement was funded in December 1993.

REDEMPTION OF HIGH-COST SECURITIES

The Company plans to continue a program of redeeming or replacing high-cost
debt and preferred stock in cases where opportunities exist to reduce financing
costs.  High-cost issues may be repurchased in the open market or called at
premiums as specified under terms of the issue.  They may also be redeemed at
face value to meet improvement fund and sinking fund requirements, to meet
replacement provisions of the mortgage, or by use of proceeds from the sale of
property pledged under the mortgage.  In general, for the first five years a
series is outstanding the Company is prohibited from redeeming for improvement
fund purposes more than 1 percent annually of the original issue amount.

9. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED):

Summarized quarterly financial information for 1993 and 1992 is as follows:




  The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions and the
timing of rate increases.





                                    II-122



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report








                                    II-123



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report








                                       

                                    II-124



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report



Note:  As of 9/1/91, Georgia Power Company's sales to Oglethorpe Power Company
       are not included in Peak-Hour Demand
 *  Less than one-tenth of one percent.





                                    II-125



SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
Georgia Power Company 1993 Annual Report







                                    II-126
                                       



STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Georgia Power Company



Note:  Reflects major sales of facilities to Jacksonville Electric Authority,
       Florida Power & Light Company, OPC, MEAG, and Dalton.  Increases in 
       net income, after total taxes, from these sales were $18,391,000 in 
       1993, $14,542,000 in 1991, $6,336,000 in 1990, $3,851,000 in 1987, 
       and $21,250,000 in 1984.
         
                                    II-127


STATEMENTS OF INCOME
Georgia Power Company


                                    II-128



STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Georgia Power Company

                                                                     
( ) Denotes use of cash.

                                    II-129

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
Georgia Power Company

                                                                      

                                    II-130


BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company

                                                                   
                                       
                                    II-131

 
BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company

                                                                    


                                    II-132



BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company



                                    II-133

BALANCE SHEETS
Georgia Power Company


                                    II-134



                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
                                       
                            OUTSTANDING SECURITIES
                             AT DECEMBER 31, 1993
                                       
                             FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS




                                    II-135






                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
                                       
                      OUTSTANDING SECURITIES (Continued)
                             AT DECEMBER 31, 1993
                                       
 

           
(1) Issued in exchange for $5.00 preferred outstanding at the time of company 
    formation.


                                    II-136



                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

                               SECURITIES RETIRED
                                  DURING 1993

                              FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS
                    

             
(1)  Issued in exchange for $5.00 preferred outstanding at the time of company 
     formation.  
 *   Less than $500.



                                     II-137











                              GULF POWER COMPANY

                              FINANCIAL SECTION




























                                    II-138




MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report

The management of Gulf Power Company has prepared and is responsible for the
financial statements and related information included in this report.  These
statements were prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily include amounts
that are based on the best estimates and judgments of management.  Financial
information throughout this annual report is consistent with the financial
statements.

         The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to
provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and
records reflect only authorized transactions of the Company.  Limitations exist
in any system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the
cost of the system should not exceed its benefits.  The Company believes its
system of internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit
relationship.

         The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on
an ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff.  The Company's
independent public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal
control system in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the financial statements.

         The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of the
directors who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's
financial reporting and control functions.  Periodically, this committee meets
with management, the internal auditors, and the independent public accountants
to ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls, and financial reporting matters.  The internal
auditors and independent public accountants have access to the members of the
audit committee at any time.

         Management believes that its policies and procedures provide
reasonable assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a
high standard of business ethics.

         In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position, results of operations, and cash
flows of Gulf Power Company in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.




/s/ D. L. McCrary                           /s/ A. E. Scarbrough
- --------------------------                  ------------------------
Douglas L. McCrary                          Arlan E. Scarbrough     
Chairman of the Board                       Vice President - Finance
and Chief Executive Officer


                                    II-139

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF GULF POWER COMPANY:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of
capitalization of Gulf Power Company (a Maine corporation and a wholly owned
subsidiary of The Southern Company) as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the
related statements of income, retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

         In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-148 through II-165)
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Gulf Power Company as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for the periods stated, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

         As explained in Notes 2 and 8 to the financial statements, effective
January 1, 1993, Gulf Power Company changed its methods of accounting for
postretirement benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.


                                        /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.

Atlanta, Georgia
February 16, 1994




                                    II-140

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EARNINGS

Gulf Power Company's net income after preferred stock dividends was $54.3
million for 1993,  a $0.2 million increase over 1992 net income.  Earnings
reflect a $2.3 million gain on the sale of Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf
States) stock and the reversal of a $1.7 million wholesale rate refund as the
result of a court order which is further discussed in Note 3 to the financial
statements under "Recovery of Contract Buyout Costs".  The company also
experienced growth in residential and commercial sales and a decrease in
interest expense on long-term debt as a result of security refinancings, offset
by higher operation and maintenance expense, and decreased industrial sales
reflecting the loss of the Company's largest industrial customer, Monsanto,
which began cogeneration in August of 1993.

         The Company's 1992 net income after dividends on preferred stock
decreased $3.7 million compared to the prior year.  The 1991 earnings included
an after-tax gain of $12.7 million representing the settlement of litigation
with Gulf States.  See Note 7 to the financial statements under "Gulf States
Settlement Completed" for further details.  Excluding this settlement from
1991, earnings for 1992 increased $8.4 million -- or approximately -- 18.7
percent over 1991.  This improvement was due to increased energy sales; lower
interest expense and preferred dividends as a result of security refinancings;
and continued emphasis on cost controls.

         The Company's return on average common equity was 13.29 percent for
1993, a slight decrease from the 13.62 percent return earned in 1992, which was
up from the 12.03 percent earned in 1991 (excluding the Gulf States
settlement).

REVENUES

Changes in operating revenues over the last three years are the result of the
following factors:




      * Includes the non-interest portion of the wholesale rate refund
        reversal discussed in "Earnings."

        Retail revenues of $471.7 million in 1993 increased $10.2 million or
2.2 percent from last year, compared with an increase of 1.2 percent in 1992
and 4.9 percent in 1991.  Revenues increased in the residential and commercial
classes primarily due to customer growth, and favorable weather and economic
conditions.  Revenues in the industrial class declined due to the loss of the
Company's largest industrial customer, Monsanto, which began operating its
cogeneration facility in August 1993.  See "Future Earnings Potential" for
further details.  The change in base rates for 1993 and 1992 reflects the
expiration of a retail rate penalty in September 1992.

        Sales for resale were $95.4 million in 1993, increasing $1.2 million or
1.3 percent over 1992.  Sales to affiliated companies vary from year to year
depending on demand and the availability and cost of generating resources at
each company.  The majority of non-affiliated energy sales arise from long-term
contractual agreements.  Non-affiliated long-term contracts include capacity
and energy components.  Capacity revenues reflect the recovery of


                                      
                                    II-141

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


fixed costs and return on investment.  Energy is sold at its variable cost.

        The capacity and energy components under these long-term contracts were
as follows:




        Beginning in June 1992, all the capacity from the Company's ownership
portion of Plant Scherer Unit No. 3 was sold through unit power sales,
resulting in increased capacity revenues.

        In 1993, changes in other operating revenues are primarily due to the
recognition of $2.6 million under the Environmental Cost Recovery (ECR) clause
which is fully discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Environmental Cost Recovery", which is offset by true-ups of other regulatory
cost recovery clauses.  The increase in other operating revenues in 1992 was
primarily due to true-ups of regulatory cost recovery clauses and the changes
in franchise fee collections and Florida gross receipts taxes (discussed under
"Expenses") which had  no effect on earnings.

        Energy sales for 1993 and percent changes in sales since 1991 are
reported below.




        Overall retail sales remained relatively flat in 1993.  Increases in
residential and commercial sales -- reflecting customer growth, favorable
weather and an improving economy -- were offset by the decreased sales in the
industrial class reflecting the loss of Monsanto.  Retail sales increased 3.8
percent in 1992 primarily due to an increase in the number of customers served
and a moderately improving economy.

        Energy sales for resale to non-affiliates increased 2.0 percent and are
predominantly unit power sales under long-term contracts to Florida utilities
which are discussed above.  Energy sales to affiliated companies vary from year
to year as mentioned above.

EXPENSES

Total operating expenses for 1993 increased $16.6 million or 3.5 percent over
1992 primarily due to increased operation and maintenance expenses and higher
taxes.  Other operation expenses increased $10.9 million or 11.1 percent from
the 1992 level.  The increase is attributable to additional costs of $7.4
million related to increases in the buyout of coal supply contracts and $1.4
million of environmental clean-up costs.  Also, higher employee benefit costs
and the costs of an automotive fleet reduction program increased expenses by
$2.1 million.  Operating expenses for 1992 increased by approximately $16
million over 1991.  Excluding the Gulf States settlement, an after-tax
reduction of $0.6 million in 1992 and $12.7 million in 1991, 1992 total
operating expenses increased $4.3 million or 0.9 percent over 1991.

        Fuel and purchased power expenses decreased $3.8 million or 1.8 percent
from 1992 reflecting the lower cost of fuel.  Total 1992 fuel and purchased
power increased $1.4 million or 0.7 percent from 1991.

        Maintenance expense increased $4.1 million or 9.7 percent over 1992 due
to scheduled maintenance of production facilities.  The 1992 maintenance
expense was down $3.5 million or 7.7 percent from 1991 due to a decrease in
scheduled maintenance.

        Federal income taxes increased $0.7 million primarily due to a
corporate federal income tax rate increase from 34 percent to 35 percent
effective January 1993.  Taxes other than income taxes increased $2.3 million
in 1993, an increase of 6.1 percent over the 1992 expense


                                      
                                    II-142

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


primarily due to increases in property taxes and gross receipt taxes.  Taxes
other than income taxes decreased $4.5 million, or 10.5 percent in 1992
compared to 1991 due primarily to the Company discontinuing the collection of
franchise fees for two Florida counties which was partially offset by an
increase in gross receipt taxes.  Changes in franchise fee collections and
gross receipt taxes had no impact on earnings.

        Interest expense decreased $3.2 million or 8.1 percent from the 1992
level and 1992 interest expense decreased $5.6 million or 12.5 percent from
1991.  The decrease in both years is primarily attributable to refinancing some
of the Company's higher cost securities.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs.  Therefore, inflation creates an economic
loss because the Company is recovering its cost of investments in dollars that
have less purchasing power.  While the inflation rate has been relatively low
in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because
of the large investment in long-lived utility plant.  Conventional accounting
for historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations, such as long-term debt and preferred stock.  Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential.  The level of future earnings depends
on a number of factors.  It is expected that higher operating costs and
carrying charges on increased investment in plant, if not offset by
proportionate increases in operating revenues (either by periodic rate
increases or increases in sales), will adversely affect future earnings. Growth
in energy sales will be subject to a number of factors, including the volume of
sales to neighboring utilities, energy conservation practiced by customers, the
elasticity of demand, customer growth, weather, competition, and the rate of
economic growth in the service area.

        In addition to the traditional factors discussed above, the Energy
Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) will have a profound effect on the future of
the electric utility industry.  The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency,
alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric utilities.  The
Company is preparing to meet the challenges of a major change in the
traditional business practices of selling electricity.  The Energy Act allows
independent power producers (IPPs) to access the Company's transmission network
in order to sell electricity to other utilities, and this may enhance the
incentive for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for the Company's large
industrial and commercial customers and sell excess energy generation to the
Company or other utilities.  Although the Energy Act does not require
transmission access to retail customers, pressure for legislation to allow
retail wheeling will continue.  If the Company does not remain a low-cost
producer and provide quality service, the Company's retail energy sales growth,
its ability to retain large industrial and commercial customers, and obtain new
long-term contracts for energy sales outside the Company's service area, could
be limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

        The future effect of cogeneration and small-power production facilities
cannot be fully determined at this time, but may be adverse.   One effect of
cogeneration which the Company has experienced is the loss of its largest
industrial customer, Monsanto, in August of 1993.  The loss of the Monsanto
load reduced revenues, and will result in a reduction in net income of
approximately $3 million in the first twelve months.

        The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates wholesale
rate schedules and power sales contracts that the Company has with its sales
for resale customers.  The FERC is currently reviewing the rate of return on
common equity included in these schedules and contracts that have a return on
common equity of 13.75 percent or greater, and may require such returns to be
lowered, possibly retroactively.  See Note 3 to the financial statements under
"FERC Reviews Equity Returns" for additional information.

        Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean
Air Act) could reduce earnings if such costs are not fully recovered.  The
Clean Air Act is discussed later under "Environmental Matters".




                                    II-143

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


Also, recently enacted legislation that provides for recovery of prudent
environmental compliance costs is discussed in Note 3 to the financial
statements under "Environmental Cost Recovery."

        The Company filed a notice with the Florida Public Service Commission
(FPSC) of its intent to obtain rate relief in February 1993.  On May 4, 1993,
the FPSC approved a stipulation between the Company, the Office of Public
Counsel, and the Florida Industrial Power Users Group to cancel the filing of
the rate case.  The stipulation also allowed the Company to retain, for the
next four years, its existing method for calculating accruals for future power
plant dismantlement costs.  The existing method provides a more even allocation
of expenses over the life of the plants and results in an avoided increase in
expenses of about $6 million annually over the next four years when compared to
the FPSC method.  The stipulation also provided for the reduction of the
Company's allowed return on equity midpoint from 12.55 percent to 12.0 percent.
After the February 1993 filing date, interest rates continued to remain low,
resulting in lower cost of capital.  Also, the Florida legislature adopted
legislation which allows utilities to petition the FPSC for recovery of
environmental costs through an adjustment clause if these costs are not being
recovered in base rates.  See Note 3 to the financial statements under
"Environmental Cost Recovery" for further details.  The combination of the
circumstances discussed above, placed the Company in a better position to
manage its finances without an increase in base rates while still providing a
fair return for the Company's investors.  Consequently, the Company agreed, as
a part of this stipulation, to cancel the filing of the rate case.


NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 112,
Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, which must be effective by
1994.  The new standard requires that all types of benefits provided to former
or inactive employees and their families prior to retirement be accounted for
on an accrual basis.  These benefits include salary continuation, severance
pay, supplemental benefits, disability-related benefits, job training, and
health and life insurance coverage.  In 1993, the Company adopted Statement No.
112, which resulted in a decrease in earnings of $0.3 million.

        The FASB has issued Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, which is effective in 1994.
Statement No. 115 supersedes FASB Statement No. 12, Accounting for Certain
Marketable Securities.  The Company does not have any investments that qualify
for FASB Statement No. 115 treatment.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

OVERVIEW

The principal changes in the Company's financial condition during 1993 were
gross property additions of $79 million.  Funds for these additions were
provided by internal sources.  The Company continued to refinance higher cost
securities to lower the Company's cost of capital.  See "Financing Activities"
below and the Statements of Cash Flows for further details.

        On January 1, 1993, the Company changed its method of calculating the
accruals for postretirement benefits other than pensions and its method of
accounting for income taxes.  See Notes 2 and 8 to the financial statements,
regarding the impact of these changes.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES

As mentioned above, the Company continued to lower its financing costs by
issuing new securities and other debt, and retiring higher-cost issues in 1993.
The Company sold $75 million of first mortgage bonds and, through public
authorities, $53.4 million of pollution control revenue bonds, issued $35
million of preferred stock, and obtained $25 million with a long-term bank
note.  Retirements, including maturities during 1993, totaled $88.8 million of
first mortgage bonds, $40.7 million of pollution control revenue bonds, and
$21.1 million of preferred stock.   (See the Statements of Cash Flows for
further details.)


                                      

                                    II-144

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


        Composite financing rates for the years 1991 through 1993 as of year
end were as follows:




CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION

The Company's gross property additions, including those amounts related to
environmental compliance, are budgeted at $200 million for the three years
beginning 1994 ($77 million in 1994, $55 million in 1995, and $68 million in
1996).  The estimates of property additions for the three-year period include
$25 million committed to meeting the requirements of the Clean Air Act, the
cost of which is expected to be recovered through the ECR clause which is
discussed in Note 3 to the financial statements under "Environmental Cost
Recovery".  Actual construction costs may vary from this estimate because of
factors such as the granting of timely and adequate rate increases; changes in
environmental regulations; revised load projections; the cost and efficiency of
construction labor, equipment, and materials; and the cost of capital.

         The Company does not have any baseload generating plants under
construction.  However, the Company plans to construct two 80 megawatt
combustion turbine peaking units.  The first is scheduled to be completed in
1998, and the second in 1999.  Significant construction of transmission and
distribution facilities and upgrading of generating plants will be continuing.

OTHER CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately $86
million will be required by the end of 1996 in connection with maturities of
long-term debt and preferred stock subject to mandatory redemption.  Also, the
Company plans to continue a program to retire higher-cost debt and preferred
stock and replace these obligations with lower-cost capital.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law.  Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the law -- will have a
significant impact on the Company.  Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and
nitrogen oxide emissions from fossil-fired generating plants will be required
in two phases.  Phase I compliance must be implemented in 1995 and affects
eight generating plants -- some 10,000 megawatts of capacity or 35 percent of
total capacity -- in the Southern electric system.  Phase II compliance is
required in 2000, and all fossil-fired generating plants in the Southern
electric system will be affected.

        Beginning in 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will
allocate annual sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the newly
established allowance trading program.  An emission allowance is the authority
to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a calendar year.  The method for
allocating allowances is based on the fossil fuel consumed from 1985 through
1987 for each affected generating unit.  Emission allowances are transferable
and can be bought, sold, or banked and used in the future.

        The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to minimize
the cost of compliance.  The market for emission allowances is developing
slower than expected.  However, The Southern Company's sulfur dioxide
compliance strategy is designed to take advantage of allowances as the market
develops.

        The Southern Company expects to achieve Phase I sulfur dioxide
compliance at the eight affected plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, and
this has required some equipment upgrades.  This compliance strategy is
expected to result in unused emission allowances being banked for later use.
Additional construction expenditures are required to install equipment for the
control of nitrogen oxide emissions at these eight plants.  Also, continuous
emissions monitoring equipment would be installed on all fossil-fired units.
Under this Phase I compliance approach, additional construction expenditures
are estimated to total approximately $275 million for The Southern Company
including $34 million for Gulf Power Company through 1995.


                                    II-145

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


        Phase II compliance costs are expected to be higher because
requirements are stricter and all fossil-fired generating plants are affected.
For sulfur dioxide compliance, The Southern Company could use emission
allowances banked during Phase I, increase fuel switching, install flue gas
desulfurization equipment at selected plants, and/or purchase more allowances
depending on the price and availability of allowances.  Also, in Phase II,
equipment to control nitrogen oxide emissions will be installed on additional
system fossil-fired plants as required to meet anticipated Phase II limits.
Therefore, during the period 1996 to 2000, compliance could require total
construction expenditures ranging from approximately $450 million to $800
million for The Southern Company including approximately $30 million to $40
million for Gulf Power Company.  However, the full impact of Phase II
compliance cannot now be determined with certainty, pending the development of
a market for emission allowances, the completion of EPA regulations, and the
possibility of new emission reduction technologies.

        Following adoption of legislation in April of 1992, allowing electric
utilities in Florida to seek FPSC approval of their Clean Air Act Compliance
Plans, the Company filed its petition for approval.  The Commission approved
the Company's plan for Phase I compliance, deferring until a later date
approval of its Phase II Plan.

        An average increase of up to 4 percent in annual revenue requirements
from Gulf Power Company customers could be necessary to fully recover the cost
of compliance for both Phase I and Phase II of the Clean Air Act.  Compliance
costs include construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to
low-sulfur coal, and costs related to emission allowances.

        The Florida Legislature recently adopted legislation that allows a
utility to petition the FPSC for recovery of prudent environmental compliance
costs through an ECR clause without lengthy regulatory full revenue
requirements rate proceedings.  The legislation is discussed in Note 3 to the
financial statements under "Environmental Cost Recovery".

        Title III of the Clean Air Act requires a multi-year EPA study of power
plant emissions of hazardous air pollutants.  The study will serve as the basis
for a decision on whether additional regulatory control of these substances is
warranted.  Compliance with any new control standards could result in
significant additional costs.  The impact of new standards -- if any -- will
depend on the development and implementation of applicable regulations.

        The EPA continues to evaluate the need for a new short-term ambient air
quality standard for sulfur dioxide.  Preliminary results from an EPA study on
the impact of a new standard indicate that a number of plants could be required
to install sulfur dioxide controls.  These controls would be in addition to the
controls already required to meet the acid rain provision of the Clean Air Act.
The EPA is expected to take some action on this issue in 1994.  The impact of
any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the standard and cannot be
determined at this time.

        In addition, the EPA is evaluating the need to revise the ambient air
quality standards for particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and ozone.  The
impact of any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the standard and
cannot be determined at this time.

        In 1994 or 1995, the EPA is expected to issue revised rules on air
quality control regulations related to stack height requirements of the Clean
Air Act.  The full impact of the final rules cannot be determined at this time,
pending their development and implementation.

        In 1993, the EPA issued a ruling confirming the non-hazardous status of
coal ash.  However, the EPA has until 1998 to classify co-managed utility
wastes -- coal ash and other utility wastes -- as either non-hazardous or
hazardous.  If the EPA classifies the co-managed wastes as hazardous, then
substantial additional costs for the management of such wastes may be required.
The full impact of any change in the regulatory status will depend on the
subsequent development of co-managed waste requirements.

        Gulf Power Company must comply with other environmental laws and
regulations that cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste.  Under
these various laws and regulations, the Company could incur costs to clean up
properties currently or previously owned.  The Company conducts studies to
determine the extent of any required clean-up costs and has recognized in the
financial statements costs to clean up known sites.





                                   II-146

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


        Several major pieces of environmental legislation are in the process of
being reauthorized or amended by Congress.  These include:  the Clean Water
Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act;
and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  Changes to these laws could
affect many areas of Gulf Power Company's operations.  The full impact of these
requirements cannot be determined at this time, pending the development and
implementation of applicable regulations.

        Compliance with possible new legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect Gulf Power Company.  The impact of new legislation
- -- if any -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of
applicable regulations.  In addition, the potential for lawsuits alleging
damages caused by electromagnetic fields exists.

COAL STOCKPILE DECREASES

To reduce the working capital invested in the coal stockpile inventory, the
Company implemented a coal stockpile reduction program in 1992.  The Company's
actual year end inventory at December 31, 1993 was $20.7 million which is
considerably lower than the desired level of $31.4 million.  This situation
exists because a limited supply of coal was available at competitive prices
primarily due to the United Mine Workers strike from July to December 1993.  In
addition, barge transportation was stranded due to floods in the Midwest.  As a
result of these circumstances, management chose to allow the existing coal
inventory to decline until coal prices stabilized.  Current market conditions
indicate that substantial coal supplies at competitive prices are now
available.  Therefore, the Company plans to increase purchases and return the
coal stockpile inventory to the desired level by the end of the third quarter,
1994.

SOURCES OF CAPITAL

At December 31, 1993, the Company had $5.6 million of cash and cash equivalents
to meet its short-term cash needs.

        It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be derived
from operations; the sale of additional first mortgage bonds, pollution control
bonds, and preferred stock; and capital contributions from The Southern
Company.  The Company is required to meet certain coverage requirements
specified in its mortgage indenture and corporate charter to issue new first
mortgage bonds and preferred stock.  The Company's coverage ratios are
sufficient to permit, at present interest and preferred dividend levels, any
foreseeable security sales.  The amount of securities which the Company will be
permitted to issue in the future will depend upon market conditions and other
factors prevailing at that time.




                                    II-147

    STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                    II-148

    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
    For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    ( ) Denotes use of cash.
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                    II-149

    BALANCE SHEETS
    At December 31, 1993 and 1992
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                    II-150

    BALANCE SHEETS (continued)
    At December 31, 1993 and 1992
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                    II-151

    STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
    At December 31, 1993 and 1992
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report







                                    II-152

    STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION  (CONTINUED)
    At December 31, 1993 and 1992
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                    II-153

    STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
    For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report




    STATEMENTS OF PAID-IN CAPITAL
    For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                    II-154

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
At December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


1.      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

GENERAL

Gulf Power Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Southern Company, which
is the parent company of five operating companies, Southern Company Services,
Inc. (SCS), Southern Electric International (Southern Electric), Southern
Nuclear Operating Company (Southern Nuclear) and various other subsidiaries
related to foreign utility operations and domestic non-utility operations.  At
this time, the operations of the other subsidiaries are not material.  The
operating companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power
Company, Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah Electric and Power Company)
provide electric service in four Southeastern states.  Contracts among the
companies -- dealing with jointly owned generating facilities, interconnecting
transmission lines, and the exchange of electric power -- are regulated by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or the Securities and Exchange
Commission.  SCS provides, at cost, specialized services to The Southern
Company and to the subsidiary companies.  Southern Electric designs, builds,
owns and operates power production facilities and provides a broad range of
technical services to industrial companies and utilities in the United States
and a number of international markets.  Southern Nuclear provides services to
The Southern Company's nuclear power plants.

        The Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA).  Both The Southern Company
and its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA.
The Company is also subject to regulation by the FERC and the Florida Public
Service Commission (FPSC).  The Company follows generally accepted accounting
principles and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed
by these commissions.

        Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have
been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

REVENUES AND FUEL COSTS

The Company accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period.  Fuel costs are expensed as fuel is used.  The Company's
electric rates include provisions to periodically adjust billings for
fluctuations in fuel and the energy component of purchased power costs.
Revenues are adjusted for differences between recoverable fuel costs and
amounts actually recovered in current rates.  The FPSC has also approved the
recovery of purchased power capacity costs, energy conservation costs, and
environmental compliance costs in cost recovery clauses that are similar to the
method used to recover fuel costs.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily using composite straight-line rates which approximated 3.8
percent in 1993, 1992, and 1991.  When property subject to depreciation is
retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of business, its cost --
together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is charged to the
accumulated provision for depreciation.  Minor items of property included in
the original cost of the plant are retired when the related property unit is
retired.

INCOME TAXES

The Company provides deferred income taxes for all significant income tax
temporary differences.  Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

        In years prior to 1993, income taxes were accounted for and reported
under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 11.  Effective January 1, 1993,
the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.
Statement No. 109 required, among other things, conversion to the liability
method of accounting for accumulated deferred income taxes.  See Note 8 for
additional information about Statement No. 109.  The Company is included in the
consolidated federal income tax return of The Southern Company.





                                    II-155

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


ALLOWANCE FOR FUNDS USED DURING CONSTRUCTION (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of certain new facilities.  While cash is
not realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue
requirement over the service life of plant through a higher rate base and
higher depreciation expense.  The FPSC-approved composite rate used to
calculate AFUDC was 7.27 percent effective on July 1, 1993 and 8.03 percent for
the first half of 1993, and for 1992, and 1991.  AFUDC amounts for 1993, 1992,
and 1991 were $966 thousand, $60 thousand, and $149 thousand, respectively.
The increase in 1993 is due to an increase in construction projects at Plant
Daniel.

UTILITY PLANT

Utility plant is stated at original cost.  Original cost includes: materials;
labor; minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general costs;
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits; and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction.  The cost of maintenance,
repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense.  The cost of replacements of property (exclusive of minor items of
property) is charged to utility plant.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents.  Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosure About Fair Value of
Financial Instruments, all financial instruments of the Company -- for which
the carrying amount does not approximate fair value -- are shown in the table
below as of December 31:






         The fair values of investment securities were based on listed closing
market prices.  The fair values for long-term debt and preferred stock subject
to mandatory redemption were based on either closing market prices or closing
prices of comparable instruments.

MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials.  Materials are charged to
inventory when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as
appropriate, when installed.

VACATION PAY

The Company's employees earn their vacation in one year and take it in the
subsequent year.  However, for ratemaking purposes, vacation pay is recognized
as an allowable expense only when paid.  Consistent with this ratemaking
treatment, the Company accrues a current liability for earned vacation pay and
records a current asset representing the future recoverability of this cost.
The amount was $4.0 million and $3.8 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.  In 1994, an estimated 84 percent of the 1993 deferred vacation
cost





                                    II-156

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


will be expensed and the balance will be charged to construction.

PROVISION FOR INJURIES AND DAMAGES

The Company is subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of
business.  As permitted by regulatory authorities, the Company is providing for
the uninsured costs of injuries and damages by charges to income amounting to
$1.2 million annually.  The expense of settling claims is charged to the
provision to the extent available.  The accumulated provision of $2.2 million
and $2.5 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively, is included in
miscellaneous current liabilities in the accompanying Balance Sheets.

PROVISION FOR PROPERTY DAMAGE

Due to a significant increase in the cost of traditional insurance, effective
in 1993, the Company became self-insured for the full cost of storm and other
damage to its transmission and distribution property.  As permitted by
regulatory authorities, the Company provides for the estimated cost of
uninsured property damage by charges to income amounting to $1.2 million
annually.  At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the accumulated provision for
property damage amounted to $10.5 million and $9.7 million, respectively.  The
expense of repairing such damage as occurs from time to time is charged to the
provision to the extent it is available.

2.       RETIREMENT BENEFITS:

PENSION PLAN

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees.  Benefits are based on the greater
of amounts resulting from two different formulas:  years of service and final
average pay or years of service and a flat-dollar benefit.  The Company uses
the "entry age normal method with a frozen initial liability" actuarial method
for funding purposes, subject to limitations under federal income tax
regulations.  Amounts funded to the pension trust fund are primarily invested
in equity and fixed-income securities.  FASB Statement No. 87, Employers'
Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the "projected unit credit" actuarial
method for financial reporting purposes.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The Company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees.  Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire.  A qualified trust for medical benefits has been
established for funding amounts to the extent deductible under federal income
tax regulations.  Amounts funded are primarily invested in debt and equity
securities.  Accrued costs of life insurance benefits, other than current cash
payments for retirees, currently are not being funded.

         Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 106,
Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, on a
prospective basis.  Statement No. 106 requires that medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis
using a specified actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service." Prior to the
adoption of Statement No. 106, Gulf Power Company recognized these benefit
costs on an accrual basis using the "aggregate cost" actuarial method, which
spreads the expected cost of such benefits over the remaining periods of
employees' service as a level percentage of payroll costs.  The costs of such
benefits recognized by the Company in 1993, 1992, and 1991 were $3.9 million,
$3.1 million, and $2.7 million, respectively.

STATUS AND COST OF BENEFITS

Shown in the following tables are actuarial results and assumptions for pension
and postretirement medical and life insurance benefits as computed under the
requirements of Statement Nos. 87 and 106, respectively.  Retiree medical and
life insurance information is shown only for 1993 because Statement No. 106 was
adopted as of January 1, 1993, on a prospective basis.





                                    II-157

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


         The funded status of the plans at December 31 was as follows:







  The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations were:




         An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated
postretirement medical benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care
cost trend rate of 11.3 percent for 1993, decreasing to 6.0 percent through the
year 2000 and remaining at that level thereafter.  An annual increase in the
assumed medical care cost trend rate by 1.0 percent would increase the
accumulated medical benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993, by $4.8 million
and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net
retiree medical cost by $543 thousand.

         Components of the plans' net cost are shown below:

                                         

         Of the above net pension amounts, $(601) thousand in 1993, $3 thousand
in 1992, and $518 thousand in 1991, were recorded in operating expenses, and
the remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.



         Of the above net postretirement medical and life insurance amounts
recorded in 1993, $3.0 million was recorded in operating expenses, and the
remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.




                                    II-158

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


3.       LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS:

COAL BARGE TRANSPORTATION SUIT

On August 19, 1993, a complaint against the Company and Southern Company
Services, an affiliate, was filed in federal district court in Ohio by two
companies with which the Company had contracted for the transportation by barge
for certain of the Company's coal supplies.  The complaint alleges breach of
the contract by the Company and seeks damages estimated by the plaintiffs to be
in excess of $85 million.

         The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion the final outcome will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's financial statements.

FPSC APPROVES STIPULATION

In February 1993, the Company filed a notice with the FPSC of its intent to
obtain rate relief.  On May 4, 1993, the FPSC approved a stipulation between
the Company, the Office of Public Counsel, and the Florida Industrial Power
Users Group to cancel the filing of the rate case and to allow the Company to
retain for the next four years its existing method for calculating accruals for
future power plant dismantlement costs.  The stipulation also required the
reduction of the Company's allowed return on equity midpoint from 12.55 percent
to 12.0 percent.  See Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Future
Earnings Potential" for further details of circumstances that contributed to
the company canceling the rate case.

FERC REVIEWS EQUITY RETURNS

In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate schedules and
contracts that have a return on common equity of 13.75 percent or greater.  The
contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all of
the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar contracts.  Any
changes in the rate of return on common equity that may occur as a result of
this proceeding would be effective 60 days after a proper notice of the
proceeding is published.  A notice was published on May 10, 1991.

         In August 1992, a FERC administrative law judge issued an opinion that
changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest.  The FERC
staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and the
matter remains pending before the FERC.

         The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's financial statements.

RECOVERY OF CONTRACT BUYOUT COSTS

In July 1990, the Company filed a request for waiver of FERC's fuel adjustment
charge regulation to permit recovery of coal contract buyout costs from
wholesale customers.  On April 4, 1991, the FERC issued an order granting
recovery of the buyout costs from wholesale customers from July 19, 1990,
forward, but denying retroactive recovery of the buyout costs from January 1,
1987 through July 18, 1990.  The Company's request for rehearing was denied by
the FERC.  The Company refunded $2.7 million (including interest) in June 1991
to its wholesale customers.  On July 31, 1991, the Company filed a petition for
review of the FERC's decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit.  On January 22, 1993, the Court vacated the Commission's
order, finding FERC's denial of the Company's request for a retroactive waiver
to be arbitrary and capricious.  The Court remanded the matter to FERC for
consideration consistent with its opinion.  Management expects that the
commission will ultimately allow the Company to recover the amount refunded
plus interest.  Accordingly, the Company recorded the reversal of the $2.7
million refund to income in 1993.

ENVIRONMENTAL COST RECOVERY

In April 1993, the Florida Legislature adopted legislation for an Environmental
Cost Recovery (ECR) clause, which allows a utility to petition the FPSC for
recovery of all prudent environmental compliance costs that are not being
recovered through base rates or any other rate-adjustment clause.  Such
environmental costs include operation and maintenance expense, depreciation,
and a return on invested capital.





                                    II-159

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


         On January 12, 1994, the FPSC approved the Company's petition under
the ECR clause for recovery of environmental costs that were projected to be
incurred from July 1993 through September 1994.  The order allows the recovery
from customers of such costs amounting to $7.8 million during the period,
February through September 1994.  Thereafter, recovery under ECR will be
determined semi-annually and will include a true-up of the prior period and a
projection of the ensuing six-month period.  In December 1993, the Company
recorded $2.6 million as additional revenue for the portion of costs incurred
during 1993.

4.       CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM:

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program, the cost of which
is currently estimated to total $77 million in 1994, $55 million in 1995, and
$68 million in 1996.  These estimates include AFUDC of approximately $0.7
million, $0.3 million, and $0.2 million, in 1994, 1995, and 1996, respectively.
The construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and actual
construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of numerous
factors.  These factors include changes in business conditions; revised load
growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations; increasing costs of
labor, equipment and materials; and cost of capital.  The Company does not have
any new baseload generating plants under construction.  However, the Company
plans to construct two 80 megawatt combustion turbine peaking units.  The first
is scheduled to be completed in 1998, and the second in 1999.  In addition,
significant construction will continue related to transmission and distribution
facilities and the upgrading and extension of the useful lives of generating
plants.

         See Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Environmental Matters"
for information on the impact of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 and other
environmental matters.

5.       FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS:

GENERAL

Current projections indicate that funds required for construction and other
purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations will be derived
primarily from internal sources.  Requirements not met from internal sources
will be financed from the sale of additional first mortgage bonds, preferred
stock, and capital contributions from The Southern Company.  In addition, the
Company may issue additional long-term debt and preferred stock primarily for
the purposes of debt maturities and redemptions of higher-cost securities.
Because of the attractiveness of current short term interest rates, the Company
may maintain a higher level of short term indebtedness than has historically
been true.

         At December 31, 1993, the Company had $49 million of lines of credit
with banks of which $6.1 million was committed to cover checks presented for
payment.  These credit arrangements are subject to renewal June 1 of each year.
In connection with these committed lines of credit, the Company has agreed to
pay certain fees and/or maintain compensating balances with the banks.  The
compensating balances, which represent substantially all the cash of the
Company except for daily working funds and like items, are not legally
restricted from withdrawal.  In addition, the Company has bid-loan facilities
with eight major money center banks that total $180 million, of which, none was
committed at December 31, 1993.

ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN

The Company's mortgage, which secures the first mortgage bonds issued by the
Company, constitutes a direct first lien on substantially all of the Company's
fixed property and franchises.

FUEL COMMITMENTS

To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants, the
Company has entered into long-term commitments for the procurement of fuel.  In
most cases, these contracts contain provisions for price escalations, minimum
purchase levels and other financial commitments.  Total estimated long-term
obligations were approximately $1.4 billion at December 31, 1993.  Additional
commitments will be required in the future to supply the Company's fuel needs.

         To take advantage of lower-cost coal supplies, agreements were reached
in 1986 to terminate two long-term contracts for the supply of coal to Plant
Daniel, which is jointly owned by the Company and Mississippi Power, an
operating affiliate.  The Company's portion of





                                    II-160

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report

this payment was some $60 million.  This amount is being amortized to expense
on a per ton basis over a nine-year period.  The remaining unamortized amount
included in deferred charges, including the current portion, was $18 million at
December 31, 1993.

         In 1988, the Company made an advance payment of $60 million to another
coal supplier under an arrangement to lower the cost of future coal purchased
under an existing contract.  This amount is being amortized to expense on a per
ton basis over a ten-year period.  The remaining unamortized amount included in
deferred charges, including the current portion, was $36 million at December
31, 1993.

         Also, in 1993 the Company made a payment of $16.4 million to a coal
supplier under an arrangement to suspend the purchase of coal under an existing
contract for one year.  This amount is being amortized to expense on a per ton
basis over a one year period.  The remaining unamortized amount, which is
included in current assets, was $11 million at December 31, 1993.

         The amortization of these payments is being recovered through the fuel
cost recovery clause discussed under "Revenues and Fuel Costs" in Note 1.

LEASE AGREEMENT

In 1989, the Company entered into a twenty-two year operating lease agreement
for the use of 495 aluminum railcars to transport coal to Plant Daniel.
Mississippi Power, as joint owner of Plant Daniel, is responsible for one half
of the lease costs.  The Company's share of the lease is charged to fuel
inventory and allocated to fuel expense as the fuel is used.  The lease costs
charged to inventory were $1.2 million in 1993, $1.2 million in 1992 and $1.3
million in 1991.  For the year 1994, the Company's annual lease payment will be
$1.2 million.  The Company's annual lease payment for 1995 will be $2.4 million
and for 1996, 1997, and 1998 the payment will be $1.2 million.  Lease payments
after 1998 total approximately $17.4 million.  The Company has the option,
after three years from the date of the original contract, to purchase the
railcars at the greater of termination value or fair market value.
Additionally, at the end of the lease term, the Company has the option to renew
the lease.

6.       JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS:

The Company and Mississippi Power jointly own Plant Daniel, a steam-electric
generating plant, located in Jackson County, Mississippi.  In accordance with
an operating agreement, Mississippi Power acts as the Company's agent with
respect to the construction, operation, and maintenance of the plant.

         The Company and Georgia Power jointly own Plant Scherer Unit No. 3, a
steam-electric generating plant, located near Forsyth, Georgia.  In accordance
with an operating agreement, Georgia Power acts as the Company's agent with
respect to the construction, operation, and maintenance of the unit.

         The Company's pro rata share of expenses related to both plants is
included in the corresponding operating expense accounts in the Statements of
Income.

         At December 31, 1993, the Company's percentage ownership and its
amount of investment in these jointly owned facilities were as follows:



(1)      Includes net plant acquisition adjustment.
(2)      Total megawatt nameplate capacity:
             Plant Scherer Unit No. 3:  818
             Plant Daniel:  1,000



                                    II-161

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


7.       LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS:

GENERAL

The Company and the other operating affiliates of The Southern Company have
contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and energy to certain
non-affiliated utilities located outside of the system's service area.  Certain
of these agreements are non-firm and are based on the capacity of the system in
general.  Other agreements are firm and pertain to capacity related to specific
generating units.  Because the energy is generally sold at cost under these
agreements, the capacity revenues from these sales primarily affect
profitability.  The Company's capacity revenues have been as follows:



         Long-term non-firm power of 400 megawatts was sold in 1993 to Florida
Power Corporation (FPC) by the Southern electric system.  In 1994, this amount
decreased to 200 megawatts, and the contract will expire at year-end 1994.
Capacity and energy sales under these long-term non-firm power sales agreements
are made from available power pool capacity, and the revenues from the sales
are shared by the operating affiliates.

         Unit power from specific generating plants is currently being sold to
FPC, Florida Power & Light Company (FP&L), Jacksonville Electric Authority
(JEA), and the City of Tallahassee, Florida.  Under these agreements, 209
megawatts of net dependable capacity were sold by the Company during 1993, and
sales will remain at that approximate level until the expiration of the
contracts in 2010, unless reduced by FPC, FP&L and JEA after 1999.

         Capacity and energy sales to FP&L, the Company's largest single
customer, provided revenues of $39.5 million in 1993, $46.2 million in 1992,
and $42.1 million in 1991, or 6.8 percent, 8.1 percent, and 7.5 percent of
operating revenues, respectively.

GULF STATES SETTLEMENT COMPLETED

On November 7, 1991, the subsidiaries of The Southern Company entered into a
settlement agreement with Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States) that
resolved litigation between the companies that had been pending since 1986 and
arose out of a dispute over certain unit power and other long-term power sales
contracts.  In 1993, all remaining terms and obligations of the settlement
agreement were satisfied.

         Based on the value of the settlement proceeds received - less the
amounts previously included in income - the Company recorded increases in net
income of approximately $0.6 million in 1992 and $12.7 million in 1991.  In
1993, the Company sold all of its remaining Gulf States common stock received
in the settlement, resulting in a gain of $2.3 million after tax.

8.       INCOME TAXES:

Effective January 1, 1993, Gulf Power Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes.  The adoption of Statement No. 109 resulted in
cumulative adjustments that had no effect on net income.  The adoption also
resulted in the recording of additional deferred income taxes and related
assets and liabilities.  The related assets of $31.3 million are revenues to be
received from customers.  These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed
through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized
AFUDC.  The related liabilities of $76.9 million are revenues to be refunded to
customers.  These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes previously
recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and to unamortized
investment tax credits.  Additionally, deferred income taxes related to
accelerated tax depreciation previously shown as a reduction to utility plant
were reclassified.





                                       
                                    II-162

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


         Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are as follows:



         The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:




         Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the
related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to reduce
depreciation in the Statements of Income.  Credits amortized in this manner
amounted to $2.3 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991.  At December 31, 1993, all
investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had
been utilized.

         A reconciliation of the federal statutory income tax rate to the
effective income tax rate is as follows:



         Gulf Power Company and the other subsidiaries of The Southern Company
file a consolidated federal tax return.  Under a joint consolidated income tax
agreement, each company's current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis, and consolidated tax savings are allocated to each company
based on its ratio of taxable income to total consolidated taxable income.





                                    II-163

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


9.       LONG-TERM DEBT:

POLLUTION CONTROL OBLIGATIONS

Obligations incurred in connection with the sale by public
authorities of tax-exempt pollution control revenue bonds are as follows:



         *  Sinking fund requirement applicable to the 6 percent pollution
control bonds is $100 thousand for 1994 with increasing increments thereafter
through 2005, with the remaining balance due in 2006.

         With respect to the collateralized pollution control revenue bonds,
the Company has authenticated and delivered to trustees a like principal amount
of first mortgage bonds as security for obligations under collateralized
installment agreements.  The principal and interest on the first mortgage bonds
will be payable only in the event of default under the agreements.

OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt also includes $17.5 million for the Company's portion of notes
payable issued in connection with the termination of Plant Daniel coal
contracts (see Note 5 for information on fuel commitments).  The notes bear
interest at 8.25 percent with the principal being amortized through 1995.  Also
included in long-term debt is a 30-month note payable for $25 million which was
obtained to refinance higher cost securities.  The principal is due in June
1996 and bears interest at 4.69 percent which is payable quarterly beginning
March 1994.  The estimated annual maturities of the notes payable through 1996
are as follows: $8.4 million in 1994, $9.1 million in 1995, and $25 million in
1996.

10.      LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR:

A summary of the improvement fund requirement and scheduled maturities and
redemptions of long-term debt due within one year is as follows:




         The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirement amounts
to 1 percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the
indenture prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to
collateralize pollution control obligations.  The requirement may be satisfied
by depositing cash, reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal
to 1 and 2/3 times the requirement.  In 1994, $12 million of 4 5/8 percent
First Mortgage Bonds due October 1, 1994 and $15 million of 6 percent First
Mortgage Bonds due June 1, 1996 are scheduled to be redeemed.





                                    II-164

NOTES (CONTINUED)
Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report


11.      COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS:

The Company's first mortgage bond indenture contains various common stock
dividend restrictions which remain in effect as long as the bonds are
outstanding.  At December 31, 1993, $101 million of retained earnings was
restricted against the payment of cash dividends on common stock under the
terms of the mortgage indenture.

         The Company's charter limits cash dividends on common stock to 50
percent of net income available for such stock during a prior period if the
capitalization ratio is below 20 percent and to 75 percent of such net income
if such ratio is 20 percent or more but less than 25 percent.  The
capitalization ratio is defined as the ratio of common stock equity to total
capitalization, including retained earnings, adjusted to reflect the payment of
the proposed dividend.  At December 31, 1993, the ratio was 44.4 percent.

12.      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED):

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1993 and 1992 are as follows:


         The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions
and the timing of rate changes, among other factors.





                                    II-165

    SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report





                                       
                                    II-166

    SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (CONTINUED)
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report







                                    II-167

    SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (CONTINUED)
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report






                                    II-168

    SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (CONTINUED)
    Gulf Power Company 1993 Annual Report





                                    II-169


    STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    Gulf Power Company







                                     II-170







    STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    Gulf Power Company







                                     II-171









    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
    Gulf Power Company




                                     II-172





    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
    Gulf Power Company





                                     II-173



    BALANCE SHEETS
    Gulf Power Company







                                     II-174






    BALANCE SHEETS
    Gulf Power Company







                                     II-175

    BALANCE SHEETS
    Gulf Power Company



                                    II-176







    BALANCE SHEETS
    Gulf Power Company







                                     II-177







                               GULF POWER COMPANY

                             OUTSTANDING SECURITIES
                              AT DECEMBER 31, 1993

                              FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS



                            POLLUTION CONTROL BONDS

   


                                PREFERRED STOCK



               
(1)  Subject to mandatory redemption of 5% annually on or before February 1.





                                     II-178






                               GULF POWER COMPANY

                               SECURITIES RETIRED
                                  DURING 1993


                              FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS




                                     POLLUTION CONTROL BONDS



                                        PREFERRED STOCK
                                       




                                    II-179















                          MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

                              FINANCIAL SECTION



















                                    II-180






   MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   The management of Mississippi Power Company has prepared--and is responsible
   for--the financial statements and related information included in this
   report.  These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
   accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances and
   necessarily include amounts that are based on best estimates and judgments
   of management.  Financial information throughout this annual report is
   consistent with the financial statements.

      The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to provide
   reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and records
   reflect only authorized transactions of the Company.  Limitations exist,
   however, in any system of internal control, based upon a recognition that
   the cost of the system should not exceed its benefits.  The Company believes
   its system of internal accounting control maintains an appropriate
   cost/benefit relationship.

      The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on an
   ongoing basis by the internal audit staff.  The Company's independent public
   accountants also consider certain elements of the internal control system in
   order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose of expressing
   an opinion on the financial statements.

      The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of four directors
   who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's financial
   reporting and control functions.  Periodically, this committee meets with
   management, the internal auditors, and the independent public accountants to
   ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
   auditing, internal controls, and financial reporting matters.  The internal
   auditors and independent public accountants have access to the members of
   the audit committee at any time.

      Management believes that its policies and procedures provide reasonable
   assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a high
   standard of business ethics.

      In management's opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
   material respects, the financial position, results of operations, and cash
   flows of Mississippi Power Company in conformity with generally accepted
   accounting principles.



   /s/ David M. Ratcliffe
   --------------------------------------------------
   David M. Ratcliffe
   President and Chief Executive Officer



   /s/ Thomas A. Fanning
   --------------------------------------------------
   Thomas A. Fanning
   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





                                    II-181



   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


   TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
   MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY:

   We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of
   capitalization of Mississippi Power Company (a Mississippi corporation and a
   wholly owned subsidiary of The Southern Company) as of December 31, 1993 and
   1992, and the related statements of income, retained earnings, paid-in
   capital, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
   December 31, 1993.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
   Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
   financial statements based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
   standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
   obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
   of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
   evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
   An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
   significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
   financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
   reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-190 through II-206) 
   referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
   position of Mississippi Power Company as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and
   the results of its operations and its cash flows for the periods stated, in
   conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

      As explained in Notes 2 and 9 to the financial statements, effective
   January 1, 1993, Mississippi Power Company changed its methods of accounting
   for postretirement benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.




                                        /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.



   Atlanta, Georgia
   February 16 , 1994





                                      
                                    II-182



   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
   CONDITION Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

   EARNINGS

   Mississippi Power Company's net income after dividends on preferred stock
   for 1993 totaled $42.4 million, an increase of $5.6 million over the prior
   year.  This improvement is attributable primarily to increased energy sales
   and retail rate increases.  A retail rate increase under the Company's
   Performance Evaluation Plan (PEP-1A) of $6.4 million annually became
   effective  in July 1993.  Under the Environmental Compliance Overview Plan
   (ECO Plan) retail rates increased by $2.6 million annually effective April
   1993.

      A comparison of 1992 to 1991 - excluding the events occurring in 1991
   discussed below - would reflect a 1992 increase in earnings of $4.9 million
   or 15.5 percent.  The Company's financial performance in 1991 reflected the
   after-tax operating and disposal losses of $11.9 million recorded by the
   Company's former merchandise subsidiary.  These losses were partially offset
   by a $2.6 million positive impact on earnings from the settlement of the
   contract dispute with Gulf States Utilities Company (Gulf States).

   REVENUES

   The following table summarizes the factors impacting operating revenues for
   the past three years:



   *Includes the effect of the retail rate increase approved under the ECO Plan.

      Retail revenues of $368 million in 1993 increased 9.0 percent over the
   prior year, compared with an increase of 2.2 percent for 1992 and a decrease
   of 1.5 percent in 1991.  The increase in retail revenues for 1993 was a
   result of growth in energy sales and customers, the favorable impact of
   weather, and retail rate increases.  Changes in base rates reflect rate
   changes made under the PEP plans and the ECO Plan as approved by the
   Mississippi Public Service Commission (MPSC).

      The increase in revenues for the recovery of fuel costs for 1993 reversed
   two years of decline.  Under the fuel cost recovery provision, recorded fuel
   revenues are equal to recorded fuel expenses, including the fuel component
   and the operation and maintenance component of purchased energy.  Therefore,
   changes in recoverable fuel expenses are offset with corresponding changes
   in fuel revenues and have no effect on net income.





                                    II-183



   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report



      Included in sales for resale to non-affiliates are revenues from rural
   electric cooperative associations and municipalities located in southeastern
   Mississippi.  Energy sales to these customers in 1993 increased 9.0 percent
   over the prior year with the related revenues rising 14.1 percent.  The
   customer demand experienced by these utilities is determined by factors very
   similar to Mississippi Power's.

      Sales for resale to non-affiliated non-territorial utilities are
   primarily under long-term contracts consisting of capacity and energy
   components.  Capacity revenues reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a
   return on investment under the contracts.  Energy is generally sold at
   variable cost.  The capacity and energy components were:


      Capacity revenues for Mississippi Power increased in 1993 and 1992 due to
   a change in the allocation of transmission capacity revenues throughout the
   Southern electric system.  Most of the Company's capacity revenues are
   derived from transmission charges.

      Sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric system will
   vary from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of
   generating resources at each company.  These sales have no material impact
   on earnings.


      The increase in other operating revenues for 1993 was due to increased
   rents collected from microwave equipment use and the transmission of
   non-associated companies' electricity.

      Below is a breakdown of kilowatt-hour sales for 1993 and the percent
   change for the last three years:


      Total retail energy sales in 1993 increased compared to the previous
   year, due primarily to weather influences and the improvement in the
   economy.  The increase in commercial energy sales also reflects the impact
   of recently established casinos within the Company's service area.
   Industrial sales increased in 1992 as a result of new contracts with two
   large industrial customers.

      The decrease in energy sales for resale to non-affiliates is
   predominantly due to reductions in unit power sales under long-term
   contracts to Florida utilities.  Economy sales and amounts sold under
   short-term contracts are also sold for resale to non-affiliates.  Sales for
   resale to non-affiliates are influenced by those utilities' own customer
   demand, plant availability, and the cost of their predominant fuels -- oil
   and natural gas.

   EXPENSES

   Total operating expenses for 1993 were higher than the previous year because
   of higher production expenses, which reflects increased demand, an increase
   in the federal income tax rate, and higher employee-related costs.  (See
   Note 2 to the financial statements for information regarding employee and
   retiree benefits.)  Additionally, included in other operation expenses are
   increased costs associated with environmental remediation of a Southern
   electric system research facility.  Expenses in 1992 were lower than 1991,
   excluding the Gulf States settlement, primarily because of lower production
   expenses stemming from decreased demand.





                                      
                                    II-184

   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report



      Fuel costs constitute the single largest expense for Mississippi Power.
   These costs increased in 1993 due to an 11.0 percent increase in generation,
   which reflects higher demand.  Fuel expenses in 1992, compared to 1991, were
   lower because of less generation and the negotiation of new coal contracts.
   Generation decreased primarily because of the availability of lower cost
   generation elsewhere within the Southern electric system.

      Purchased power consists primarily of energy purchases from the
   affiliates of the Southern electric system.  Purchased power transactions
   (both sales and purchases) among Mississippi Power and its affiliates will
   vary from period to period depending on demand and the availability and
   variable production cost at each generating unit in the Southern electric
   system.

      Taxes other than income taxes increased in 1993  because of higher ad
   valorem taxes, which are property based, and municipal franchise taxes,
   which are revenue based.  The decline in 1992 was attributable to lower
   franchise taxes.

      Income tax expense in 1993 increased because of the enactment of a higher
   corporate income tax rate retroactive to January 1, 1993, coupled with
   higher earnings.  The change in income taxes for 1992 and 1991 reflected the
   change in operating income.

   EFFECTS OF INFLATION

   Mississippi Power is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are
   based on the recovery of historical costs.  Therefore, inflation creates an
   economic loss because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in
   dollars that have less purchasing power.  While the inflation rate has been
   relatively low in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on
   the Company because of the large investment in long-lived utility plant.
   Conventional accounting for historical costs does not recognize this
   economic loss nor the partially offsetting gain that arises through
   financing facilities with fixed-money obligations, such as long-term debt
   and preferred stock.  Any recognition of inflation by regulatory authorities
   is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

   FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL

   The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
   indicative of future earnings potential.  The level of future earnings
   depends on numerous factors ranging from regulatory matters to growth in
   energy sales.  Expenses are subject to constant review and cost control
   programs.  Among the efforts to control costs are utilizing employees more
   effectively through a functionalization program for the Southern electric
   system, redesigning compensation and benefit packages, and re- engineering
   work processes.  Mississippi Power is also maximizing the utility of
   invested capital and minimizing the need for capital by refinancing,
   decreasing the average fuel stockpile, raising generating plant availability
   and efficiency, and curbing the construction budget.  Operating revenues
   will be affected by any changes in rates under the PEP-2, the Company's
   revised performance based ratemaking plan.  The PEP plans have proved to be
   a stabilizing force on electric rates, with only moderate changes in rates
   taking place.

      The ECO Plan, approved by the MPSC in 1992, provides for recovery of
   costs associated with environmental projects approved by the MPSC, most of
   which are required to comply with Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990
   regulations.  The ECO Plan is operated independently of PEP-2.

      The FERC regulates wholesale rate schedules and power sales contracts
   that Mississippi Power has with its sales for resale customers.  The FERC is
   currently reviewing the rate of return on common equity included in these
   schedules and contracts and may require such returns to be lowered, possibly
   retroactively.  Also, pending before the FERC is the Company's request for a
   $3.6 million wholesale rate increase.

      Further discussion of the PEP plans, the ECO Plan, and proceedings before
   the FERC is made in Note 3 to the financial statements herein.

      Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy sales,
   which are subject to a number of factors.  Traditionally, these factors have
   included changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy
   conservation practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, weather,
   competition, and the rate of economic growth in Mississippi Power's service
   area.  However, the Energy




                                   II-185



   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report



   Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) will have a profound effect on the future of
   the electric utility industry.  The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency,
   alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric utilities.  The
   Energy Act allows Independent Power Producers (IPPs) to access a utility's
   transmission network in order to sell electricity to other utilities, and
   this may enhance the incentive of IPPs to build cogeneration plants for a
   utility's large industrial and commercial customers.  Although the Energy
   Act does not require transmission access to retail customers, pressure for
   legislation to allow retail wheeling will continue.  Mississippi Power is
   preparing to meet the challenge of this major change in the traditional
   business practices of selling electricity.  If Mississippi Power does not
   remain a low-cost producer and provider of quality service, the Company's
   retail energy sales growth, as well as new long-term contracts for energy
   sales outside the service area, could be limited, which could significantly
   reduce earnings.

   NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

   The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 112,
   Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, which must be effective
   by 1994.  The new standard requires that all types of benefits provided to
   former or inactive employees and their families prior to retirement be
   accounted for on an accrual basis.  These benefits include salary
   continuation, severance pay, supplemental unemployment benefits,
   disability-related benefits, job training, and health and life insurance
   coverage.  In 1993, Mississippi Power adopted Statement No. 112, with no
   material effect on the financial statements.

      The FASB has issued Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments
   in Debt and Equity Securities, which is effective in 1994.  Statement No.
   115 supersedes FASB Statement No. 12, Accounting for Certain Marketable
   Securities.  In January 1994, Mississippi Power adopted the new rules, with
   no material effect on the financial statements.

      On January 1, 1993, Mississippi Power changed its methods of accounting
   for postretirement benefits other than pensions and income taxes.  See Notes
   2 and 9 to the financial statements regarding the impact of these changes.

   FINANCIAL CONDITION

   OVERVIEW

   The principal changes in Mississippi Power's financial condition during 1993
   were gross property additions of $140 million to utility plant, a
   significant lowering of cost of capital through refinancings, and the
   resolution of PEP and ratepayer litigation.  Funding for gross property
   additions came primarily from capital contributions from The Southern
   Company, earnings and other operating cash flows.  The Statements of Cash
   Flows provide additional details.

   FINANCING ACTIVITY

   Mississippi Power continued to lower its financing costs in 1993 by issuing
   new debt and equity securities and retiring high- cost issues.  The Company
   sold $132 million of first mortgage bonds, preferred stock and, through
   public authorities, pollution control revenue bonds.  Retirements, including
   maturities during 1993, totaled some $101 million of such securities.  (See
   the Statements of Cash Flows for further details.)  Composite financing
   rates for the years 1991 through 1993 as of year-end were as follows:







                                   II-186

   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   CAPITAL STRUCTURE

   At year-end 1993, the Company's ratio of common equity to total
   capitalization was 49.8 percent, compared to 47.3 percent in 1992 and 44.4
   percent in 1991.  The increase in the ratio in 1993 can be attributed
   primarily to the receipt of $30 million of capital contributions from The
   Southern Company.

   CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION

   The Company's projected construction expenditures for the next three years
   total $256 million ($96 million in 1994, $62 million in 1995, and $98
   million in 1996).  The major emphasis within the construction program will
   be on complying with Clean Air Act regulations, completion of a 78-megawatt
   combustion turbine, and upgrading existing facilities.  The estimates for
   property additions for the three-year period include $39 million committed
   to meeting the requirements of Clean Air Act regulations.  Revisions may be
   necessary because of factors such as revised load projections, the
   availability and cost of capital, and changes in environmental regulations.

   OTHER CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

   In addition to the funds required for the Company's construction program,
   approximately $51 million will be required by the end of 1996 for present
   sinking fund requirements and maturities of long-term debt.  Mississippi
   Power plans to continue, when economically feasible, to retire high-cost
   debt and preferred stock and replace these obligations with lower-cost
   capital.

   ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

      In November 1990, the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Clean Air Act)
   were signed into law.  Title IV of the Clean Air Act -- the acid rain
   compliance provision of the law -- will have a significant impact on
   Mississippi Power and the other operating companies of The Southern Company.
   Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from
   fossil-fired generating plants will be required in two phases.  Phase I
   compliance must be implemented in 1995, and affects eight generating plants
   -- some 10 thousand megawatts of capacity or 35 percent of total capacity --
   in the Southern electric system.  Phase II compliance is required in 2000,
   and all fossil-fired generating plants in the Southern electric system will
   be affected.

      Beginning in 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will
   allocate annual sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the newly
   established allowance trading program.  An emission allowance is the
   authority to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a calendar year.  The
   method for allocating allowances is based on the fossil fuel consumed from
   1985 through 1987 for each affected generating unit.  Emission allowances
   are transferable and can be bought, sold, or banked and used in the future.

      The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to minimize the
   cost of compliance.  The market for emission allowances is developing more
   slowly than expected.  However, The Southern Company's sulfur dioxide
   compliance strategy is designed to take advantage of allowances as the
   market develops.

      The Southern Company expects to achieve Phase I sulfur dioxide compliance
   at the eight affected plants by switching to low-sulfur coal, and this has
   required some equipment upgrades.  This compliance strategy is expected to
   result in unused emission allowances being banked for later use.  Additional
   construction expenditures are required to install equipment for the control
   of nitrogen oxide emissions at these eight plants.  Also, continuous
   emissions monitoring equipment would be installed on all fossil-fired units.
   Under this Phase I compliance approach, additional construction expenditures
   are estimated to total approximately $275 million through 1995 for The
   Southern Company, of which Mississippi Power's portion is approximately $60
   million.

      Phase II compliance costs are expected to be higher because requirements
   are stricter and all fossil-fired generating plants are affected.  For
   sulfur dioxide compliance, The Southern Company could use emission
   allowances banked during Phase I, increase fuel switching, install flue gas
   desulfurization equipment at selected plants, and/or purchase more
   allowances depending on the price and availability of allowances.  Also, in
   Phase II, equipment to control nitrogen oxide emissions will be installed on
   additional system fossil-fired plants as required to meet anticipated Phase
   II limits.  Therefore, during the period 1996 to 2000, compliance for The
   Southern Company could require total construction expenditures ranging from
   approximately $450 million to $800 million,


                                      
                                    II-187

   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   of which Mississippi Power's portion is approximately $25 million.  However,
   the full impact of Phase II compliance cannot now be determined with
   certainty, pending the development of a market for emission allowances, the
   completion of EPA regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction
   technologies.

      An average increase of up to 3 percent in revenue requirements from
   customers could be necessary to fully recover The Southern Company's costs
   of compliance for both Phase I and II of the Clean Air Act.  Compliance
   costs include construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to
   low-sulfur coal, and costs related to emission allowances.

      Mississippi Power's ECO Plan is designed to allow recovery of costs of
   compliance with the Clean Air Act, as well as other environmental statutes
   and regulations.  The MPSC reviews environmental projects and the Company's
   environmental policy through the ECO Plan.  Under the ECO Plan, any increase
   in the annual revenue requirement is limited to 2 percent of retail
   revenues.  However, the plan also provides for carryover of any amount over
   the 2 percent limit into the next year's revenue requirement.  Mississippi
   Power's management believes that the ECO Plan will provide for recovery of
   the Clean Air Act costs.

      Title III of the Clean Air Act requires a multi-year EPA study of power
   plant emissions of hazardous air pollutants.  The study will serve as the
   basis for a decision on whether additional regulatory control of these
   substances is warranted.  Compliance with any new control standard could
   result in significant additional costs.  The impact of new standards -- if
   any -- will depend on the development and implementation of applicable
   regulations.

      The EPA continues to evaluate the need for a new short-term ambient air
   quality standard for sulfur dioxide.  Preliminary results from an EPA study
   on the impact of a new standard indicate that a number of plants could be
   required to install sulfur dioxide controls.  These controls would be in
   addition to the controls already required to meet the acid rain provisions
   of the Clean Air Act.  The EPA is expected to take some action on this issue
   in 1994.  The impact of any new standard will depend on the level chosen for
   the standard and cannot be determined at this time.

      In addition, the EPA is evaluating the need to revise the ambient air
   quality standards for particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, and ozone.  The
   impact of any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the standard
   and cannot be determined at this time.

      In 1994 or 1995, the EPA is expected to issue revised rules on air
   quality control regulations related to stack height requirements of the
   Clean Air Act.  The full impact of the final rules cannot be determined at
   this time, pending their development and implementation.

      In 1993, the EPA issued a ruling confirming the non-hazardous status of
   coal ash.  However, the EPA has until 1998 to classify co-managed utility
   wastes -- coal ash and other utility wastes -- as either non-hazardous or
   hazardous.  If the EPA classifies the co-managed wastes as hazardous, then
   substantial additional costs for the management of such wastes may be
   required.  The full impact of any change in the regulatory status will
   depend on the subsequent development of co-managed waste requirements.

      The Company must comply with other environmental laws and regulations
   that cover the handling and disposal of hazardous waste.  Under these
   various laws and regulations, the Company could incur costs to clean up
   properties currently or previously owned.  The Company conducts studies to
   determine the extent of any required clean-up costs and has recognized in
   the financial statements costs to clean up known sites.

      Several major pieces of environmental legislation are in the process of
   being reauthorized or amended by Congress.  These include: the Clean Water
   Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; and the Comprehensive
   Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.  Changes to these
   laws could affect many areas of the Company's operations.  The full impact
   of these requirements cannot be determined at this time, pending the
   development and implementation of applicable regulations.

      Compliance with possible new legislation related to global climate
   change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
   could significantly affect the Company.  The impact of new legislation -- if
   any -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of
   applicable regulations.  In addition, the

                                    II-188




   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report



   potential for lawsuits alleging damages caused by electromagnetic fields
   exists.

   SOURCES OF CAPITAL

   At December 31, 1993, the Company had $70 million of committed credit in
   revolving credit agreements and also had $21 million of committed short-term
   credit lines.  The $40 million of notes payable outstanding at year end 1993
   were apart from the committed credit facilities.

      It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and other
   purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations will be
   derived from operations, the sale of additional first mortgage bonds,
   pollution control obligations, and preferred stock, and the receipt of
   additional capital contributions from The Southern Company.  Mississippi
   Power is required to meet certain coverage requirements specified in its
   mortgage indenture and corporate charter to issue new first mortgage bonds
   and preferred stock.  The Company's coverage ratios are sufficiently high
   enough to permit, at present interest rate levels, any foreseeable security
   sales.  The amount of securities which the Company will be permitted to
   issue in the future will depend upon market conditions and other factors
   prevailing at that time.





                                      

                                    II-189






       STATEMENTS OF INCOME
       For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
       Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.










                                                               
                                    II-190



       STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
       For the Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
       Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report

  

       ( ) Denotes use of cash.
       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.






                                    II-191


       BALANCE SHEETS
       At December 31, 1993 and 1992
       Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


       
       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.










                                    II-192









       BALANCE SHEETS
       At December 31, 1993 and 1992
       Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report



                                    II-193





       STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
       At December 31, 1993 and 1992
       Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                      
                                    II-194



       STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
       For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
       Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report




       STATEMENTS OF PAID-IN CAPITAL
       For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991




       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.





                                    II-195



   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report




   1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
      POLICIES

   GENERAL

   Mississippi Power Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Southern
   Company, which is the parent company of five operating companies, Southern
   Company Services (SCS), Southern Electric International (Southern Electric),
   Southern Nuclear Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), and various other
   subsidiaries related to foreign utility operations and domestic non-utility
   operations.  The operating companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power
   Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah
   Electric and Power Company) provide electric service in four southeastern
   states.  Contracts among the companies--dealing with jointly owned
   generating facilities, interconnecting transmission lines, and the exchange
   of electric power--are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
   (FERC) or the Securities and Exchange Commission.  SCS provides, at cost,
   specialized services to The Southern Company and to the subsidiary
   companies.  Southern Electric designs, builds, owns, and operates power
   production facilities and provides a broad range of technical services to
   industrial companies and utilities in the United States and a number of
   international markets.  Southern Nuclear provides services to The Southern
   Company's nuclear power plants.

      The Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the Public
   Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA).  Both The Southern Company and
   its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA.
   Mississippi Power is also subject to regulation by the FERC and the
   Mississippi Public Service Commission (MPSC).  The Company follows generally
   accepted accounting principles and complies with the accounting policies and
   practices prescribed by the respective commissions.

      The 1991 financial statements of the Company included the accounts of
   Electric City Merchandise Company, Inc. (Electric City), which discontinued
   operations in 1991.  All significant intercompany transactions were
   eliminated in consolidation.

      Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements have been
   reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

   REVENUES

   Mississippi Power accrues revenues for service rendered but unbilled at the
   end of each fiscal period.  The Company's retail and wholesale rates include
   provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in fuel and the energy
   component of purchased power.  Retail rates also include provisions to
   adjust billings for fluctuations in costs for ad valorem taxes.  Revenues
   are adjusted for differences between the recoverable fuel and ad valorem
   expenses and the amounts actually recovered in current rates.

   DEPRECIATION

   Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
   provided by using composite straight-line rates which approximated 3.1
   percent in 1993 and 3.3 percent in 1992 and 1991.  When property subject to
   depreciation is retired or otherwise disposed of in the normal course of
   business, its cost -- together with the cost of removal, less salvage -- is
   charged to the accumulated provision for depreciation.  Minor items of
   property included in the original cost of the plant are retired when the
   related property unit is retired.

   INCOME TAXES

   Mississippi Power provides deferred income taxes for all significant income
   tax temporary differences.  Investment tax credits utilized are deferred and
   amortized to income over the average lives of the related property.

      In years prior to 1993, income taxes were accounted for and reported
   under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 11.  Effective January 1,
   1993, Mississippi Power adopted FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for
   Income Taxes.  Statement No. 109 required, among other things, conversion to
   the liability method of accounting for accumulated deferred income taxes.
   See Note 9 to the financial statements for additional information about
   Statement No. 109.





                                    II-196



   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   ALLOWANCE FOR FUNDS USED DURING CONSTRUCTION (AFUDC)

   AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that
   are necessary to finance the construction of new facilities.  While cash is
   not realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue
   requirement over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base
   and higher depreciation expense.  The composite rates used to capitalize the
   cost of funds devoted to construction were 6.8 percent in 1993, 8.2 percent
   in 1992, and 9.8 percent in 1991.  AFUDC (net of income taxes), as a percent
   of net income after dividends on preferred stock, was 3.5 percent in 1993,
   2.7 percent in 1992, and 4.8 percent in 1991.

   UTILITY PLANT

   Utility plant is stated at original cost.  This cost includes: materials;
   labor; minor items of property; appropriate administrative and general
   costs; payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions, and other benefits;
   and the estimated cost of funds used during construction.  The cost of
   maintenance, repair, and replacement of minor items of property is charged
   to maintenance expense except for the maintenance of coal cars and a portion
   of the railway track maintenance, which are charged to fuel stock.  The cost
   of replacements of property (exclusive of minor items of property) is
   charged to utility plant.

   CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

   For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
   considered cash equivalents.  Temporary cash investments are securities with
   original maturities of 90 days or less.

   FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

   In accordance with FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosure About Fair Value of
   Financial Instruments, all financial instruments of the Company -- for which
   the carrying amount does not approximate fair value -- are shown in the
   table below as of December 31:


      The fair value of investment securities was based on listed closing
   market prices.  The fair value for long-term debt was based on either
   closing market prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

   MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

   Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
   distribution and generating plant materials.  Materials are charged to
   inventory when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as
   appropriate, when used or installed.

   VACATION PAY

   Mississippi Power's employees earn their vacation in one year and take it in
   the subsequent year.  However, for ratemaking purposes, vacation pay is
   recognized as an allowable expense only when paid.  Consistent with this
   ratemaking treatment, the Company accrues a current liability for earned
   vacation pay and records a current asset representing the future
   recoverability of this cost.  Such amounts were $4.8 million and $4.7
   million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  In 1994, an estimated
   80 percent of the 1993 deferred vacation cost will be expensed, and the
   balance will be charged to construction and other accounts.





                                      
                                    II-197



   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report



   PROVISION FOR PROPERTY DAMAGE

   Due to the significant increase in the cost of traditional insurance,
   effective in 1993, Mississippi Power became self-insured for the full cost
   of storm and other damage to its transmission and distribution property.  As
   permitted by regulatory authorities, the Company provided for the cost of
   storm, fire and other uninsured casualty damage by charges to income of $1.5
   million in 1993, 1992, and 1991.  The cost of repairing damage resulting
   from such events that individually exceed $50 thousand is charged to the
   accumulated provision to the extent it is available.  As of December 31,
   1993, the accumulated provision amounted to $10.5 million.  Regulatory
   treatment by the MPSC allows a maximum accumulated provision of $10.9
   million.

   DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

   Electric City began operating as a subsidiary of Mississippi Power in
   October 1987 and was formally dissolved as of December 31, 1991.  Under an
   agreement reached in October 1991, a portion of Electric City's assets,
   including inventory and fixed assets, was sold to a concern independent of
   Mississippi Power.  The remaining assets and liabilities, which were not
   material, were transferred to the Company.

      The impact of Electric City on Mississippi Power's consolidated earnings
   in 1991 consisted of (a) a pretax operating loss of $10.2 million ($6.4
   million after income taxes) and (b) the pretax loss of $8.7 million ($5.5
   million after income taxes) resulting from the disposal of Electric City.

   2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS:

   PENSION PLAN

   Mississippi Power has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension
   plan that covers substantially all regular employees.  Benefits are based on
   the greater of amounts resulting from two different formulas:  years of
   service and final average pay or years of service and a flat-dollar benefit.
   The Company uses the "entry age normal method with a frozen initial
   liability" actuarial method for funding purposes, subject to limitations
   under federal income tax regulations.  Amounts funded to the pension fund
   are primarily invested in equity and fixed-income securities.  FASB
   Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
   "projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

   POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

   Mississippi Power also provides certain medical care and life insurance
   benefits for retired employees.  Substantially all employees may become
   eligible for these benefits when they retire.  A qualified trust for medical
   benefits has been established for funding amounts to the extent deductible
   under federal income tax regulations.  Amounts funded are primarily invested
   in debt and equity securities.  Accrued costs of life insurance benefits,
   other than current cash payments for retirees, currently are not being
   funded.

      Effective January 1, 1993, Mississippi Power adopted FASB Statement No.
   106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,
   on a prospective basis.  Statement No. 106 requires that medical care and
   life insurance benefits for retired employees be accounted for on an accrual
   basis using a specified actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."
   Because the adoption of Statement No. 106 was reflected in rates, it did not
   have a material impact on net income.

      Prior to 1993, Mississippi Power recognized these benefit costs on an
   accrual basis using the "aggregate cost" actuarial method, which spreads the
   expected cost of such benefits over the remaining periods of employees'
   service as a level percentage of payroll costs.  The total costs of such
   benefits recognized by the Company in 1992 and 1991 were $3.6 million and
   $3.0 million, respectively.





                                    II-198



   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   STATUS AND COST OF BENEFITS

   Shown in the following tables are actuarial results and assumptions for
   pension and postretirement medical and life insurance benefits as computed
   under the requirements of FASB Statement Nos. 87 and 106, respectively.
   Retiree medical and life insurance information is shown only for 1993
   because Statement No. 106 was adopted as of January 1, 1993, on a
   prospective basis.  The funded status of the plans at December 31 was as
   follows:






      The weighted average rates assumed in the above actuarial calculations 
were:



      An additional assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
   medical benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend
   rate of 11.3 percent for 1993, decreasing gradually to 6.0 percent through
   the year 2000 and remaining at that level thereafter.  An annual increase in
   the assumed medical care cost trend rate by 1.0 percent would increase the
   accumulated medical benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993, by $6.4
   million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the
   net retiree medical cost by $722 thousand.

      Components of the plans' net cost are shown below:



                                      
                                    II-199



   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


      Of the above net pension amounts recorded,
   ($170 thousand) in 1993, $269 thousand in 1992, and $576 thousand in 1991
   were recorded in operating expenses, and the remainder was recorded in
   construction and other accounts.



      Of the above net postretirement medical and life insurance costs recorded
   in 1993, $3.9 million was charged to operating expense and the remainder was
   charged to construction and other accounts.

   3.  LITIGATION AND REGULATORY MATTERS:

   RETAIL RATE ADJUSTMENT PLANS

   Mississippi Power's retail base rates have been set under a Performance
   Evaluation Plan (PEP) since 1986.  During 1993, all matters related to the
   original PEP case were finally resolved when the Supreme Court of
   Mississippi granted a joint motion to dismiss pending appeals.  Also in
   1993, the MPSC ordered Mississippi Power to review and propose changes to
   the plan that would reduce the impact of rate changes on the customer and
   provide incentives for Mississippi Power to keep customer prices low.  In
   response, Mississippi Power filed a revised plan and, on January 4, 1994,
   the MPSC approved PEP-2.  The revised plan includes a mechanism for sharing
   rate adjustments based on the Company's ability to maintain low rates for
   customers and on the Company's performance as measured by three performance
   indicators that emphasize those factors which most directly impact the
   customers.  PEP-2 provides for semiannual evaluations of Mississippi's
   performance-based return on investment, rather than on common equity as
   previously calculated.  As in previous plans, any change in rates is limited
   to 2 percent of retail revenues per evaluation period before a public
   hearing is required.  PEP-2 will remain in effect until the MPSC modifies or
   terminates the plan.

   ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE OVERVIEW PLAN

   The MPSC approved Mississippi Power's ECO Plan in 1992.  The plan
   establishes procedures to facilitate the MPSC's overview of the Company's
   environmental strategy and provides for recovery of costs associated with
   environmental projects approved by the MPSC.  Under the ECO Plan any
   increase in the annual revenue requirement is limited to 2 percent of retail
   revenues.  However, the plan also provides for carryover of any amount over
   the 2 percent limit into the next year's revenue requirement.  The ECO Plan
   resulted in an annual retail rate increase of $2.6 million effective April
   1993.

   FERC REVIEWS EQUITY RETURNS AND OTHER REGULATORY MATTERS

   In May 1991, the FERC ordered that hearings be conducted concerning the
   reasonableness of the Southern electric system's wholesale rate schedules
   and contracts that have a return on equity of 13.75 percent or greater.  The
   contracts that could be affected by the hearings include substantially all
   of the transmission, unit power, long-term power and other similar
   contracts, including the Company's Transmission Facilities Agreement (TFA)
   discussed in Note 8 under "Lease Agreements."  Any changes in rate of return
   on common equity that may occur as a result of this proceeding would be
   effective 60 days after a proper notice of the proceeding is published.  A
   notice was published on May 10, 1991.

      In August 1992, an administrative law judge issued an opinion that
   changes in rate schedules and contracts were not necessary and that the FERC
   staff failed to show how any changes were in the public interest.  The FERC
   staff has filed exceptions to the administrative law judge's opinion, and
   the matter remains pending before the FERC.

      The final outcome of this matter cannot now be determined; however, in
   management's opinion, the final outcome will not have a material adverse
   effect on Mississippi Power's financial statements.

      In 1988, the Company and its operating affiliates filed with the FERC a
   contract governing the pricing and other aspects of power transactions among
   the companies.  In 1989, the FERC ordered hearings on the contract and made
   revenues collected under the contract subject to refund.  In 1992, the





                                    II-200

   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report

   FERC ruled that certain production costs under the contract had not been
   properly classified and ordered that the contract be revised and that
   refunds be made.  Under reconsideration, the FERC determined that refunds
   were not necessary and ordered that its mandated changes in computing
   certain expenses under the system interchange contract become effective in
   August 1993.  The changes mandated by the FERC will not materially affect
   the Company's net income.

   WHOLESALE RATE FILING

   On September 1, 1993, Mississippi Power filed a $3.6 million wholesale rate
   increase request with the FERC.  Prior to this filing, the Company conferred
   and negotiated a settlement with all of its wholesale all requirements
   customers, who have executed a Settlement Agreement and Certificates of
   Concurrence to be included in this filing with the FERC.  The Company is
   awaiting a response from the FERC.

   RETAIL RATEPAYERS' SUITS CONCLUDED

   In 1989, three retail ratepayers of the Company filed a civil complaint in
   the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi against
   Mississippi Power and other parties.  The complaint alleged that Mississippi
   Power obtained excessive rate increases by improper accounting for spare
   parts and sought actual damages estimated to be at least $10 million, plus
   treble and punitive damages, on behalf of all retail ratepayers of the
   Company for alleged violations of the federal Racketeer Influenced and
   Corrupt Organizations Act, federal and state antitrust laws, other federal
   and state statutes, and common law fraud.  Mississippi Power also was named
   as a defendant, together with other parties in a similar civil action filed
   in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida.  The
   defendants' motions for dismissal were granted by the courts, resolving
   these suits.

   4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM:

   Mississippi Power is engaged in continuous construction programs, the costs
   of which are currently estimated to total some $96 million in 1994, $62
   million in 1995, and $98 million in 1996.  These estimates include AFUDC of
   $1.6 million in 1994, $1.6 million in 1995, and $2.7 million in 1996.

      The construction program is subject to periodic review and revision, and
   actual construction costs may vary from the above estimates because of
   numerous factors.  These factors include changes in business conditions;
   revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental regulations;
   increasing costs of labor, equipment and materials; and cost of capital.
   The Company does not have any new baseload generating plants under
   construction.  However, the construction of a combustion turbine generation
   unit of 78 megawatts was completed in February 1994.  In addition,
   significant construction will continue related to transmission and
   distribution facilities and the upgrading and extension of the useful lives
   of generating plants.

      See Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Environmental Matters"
   for information on the impact of the Clean Air Act and other environmental
   matters.

   5.  FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS:

   FINANCING

   Mississippi Power's construction program is expected to be financed from
   internal and other sources, such as the issuance of additional long-term
   debt and preferred stock and the receipt of capital contributions from The
   Southern Company.

      The amounts of first mortgage bonds and preferred stock which can be
   issued in the future will be contingent upon market conditions, adequate
   earnings levels, regulatory authorizations and other factors.  See
   Management's Discussion and Analysis under "Sources of Capital" for
   information regarding the Company's coverage requirements.

      At December 31, 1993, Mississippi Power had committed credit agreements
   (360 day committed lines) with banks for $21 million.  Additionally,
   Mississippi Power had $70 million of unused committed credit agreements in
   the form of revolving credit agreements expiring December 1, 1996.  These
   agreements allow short-term borrowings to be converted into term loans,
   payable in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the first installment due
   at the end of the first calendar quarter after the applicable termination
   date or at an earlier date at the Company's option.  In connection with
   these credit arrangements, the Company agrees to pay commitment fees based
   on the unused portions of the commitments or to maintain compensating
   balances with the banks.

      As of December 31, 1993, Mississippi Power had $40 million in short-term
   bank borrowings all of which were made apart from committed credit
   arrangements.
                                    II-201

   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN

      Mississippi Power's mortgage indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, as
   amended and supplemented, which secures the first mortgage bonds issued by
   the Company, constitutes a direct first lien on substantially all the
   Company's fixed property and franchises.

   FUEL COMMITMENTS

   To supply a portion of the fuel requirements of its generating plants,
   Mississippi Power has entered into various long-term commitments for the
   procurement of fuel.  In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for
   price escalations, minimum production levels, and other financial
   commitments.  Total estimated obligations were approximately $243 million at
   December 31, 1993.  Additional commitments for fuel will be required in the
   future to supply the Company's fuel needs.

      In order to take advantage of lower cost coal supplies, agreements were
   reached in December 1986 to terminate two contracts for the supply of coal
   to Plant Daniel, which is jointly owned by Mississippi Power and Gulf Power,
   an operating affiliate.  The Company's portion of this payment was about $60
   million.  In accordance with the ratemaking treatment, the cost to terminate
   the contracts is being amortized through 1995 to match costs with savings
   achieved.  The remaining unamortized amount of Mississippi Power's share of
   principal payments to the suppliers including the current portion totaled
   $18 million at December 31, 1993.

   6.  JOINT OWNERSHIP AGREEMENTS:

   Mississippi Power and Alabama Power own as tenants in common Greene County
   Electric Generating Plant (coal) located in Alabama; and Mississippi Power
   and Gulf Power own as tenants in common Daniel Electric Generating Plant
   (coal) located in Mississippi.  At December 31, 1993, Mississippi Power's
   percentage ownership and investment in these jointly owned facilities were
   as follows:


      Mississippi Power's share of plant operating expenses is included in the
   corresponding operating expenses in the Statements of Income.

   7. LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS:

   GENERAL

   Mississippi Power and the other operating affiliates of The Southern Company
   have entered into long-term contractual agreements for the sale of capacity
   and energy to certain non-affiliated utilities located outside of the
   system's service area.  Some of these agreements (unit power sales) are firm
   commitments and pertain to capacity related to specific generating units.
   Mississippi Power's participation in firm production capacity unit power
   sales ended in January 1989.  However, the Company continues to participate
   in transmission and energy sales under the unit power sales agreements.  The
   other agreements (other long-term sales) are non-firm commitments and are
   based on capacity of the system in general.  Because the energy is generally
   sold at variable costs under these agreements, only revenues from capacity
   sales affect profitability.  Off-system capacity revenues for the Company
   have been as follows:


      Long-term non-firm power of 400 megawatts was sold in 1993 by the
   Southern electric system to Florida Power Corporation.  In January 1994,
   this amount decreased to 200 megawatts, and the contract will expire at
   year-end.
                                    II-202



   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report



   GULF STATES SETTLEMENT COMPLETED

   On November 7, 1991, subsidiaries of The Southern Company entered into a
   settlement agreement with Gulf States that resolved litigation between the
   companies that had been pending since 1986 and arose out of a dispute over
   certain unit power and other long-term power sales contracts.  In 1993, all
   remaining terms and obligations of the settlement agreement were satisfied.

      Based on the value of the settlement proceeds received -- less the
   amounts previously included in income -- Mississippi Power recorded an
   increase in net income of approximately $2.6 million in 1991.

   8. LEASE AGREEMENTS:

   In 1984, Mississippi Power and Gulf States entered into a forty-year
   transmission facilities agreement whereby Gulf States began paying a use fee
   to the Company covering all expenses relative to ownership and operation and
   maintenance of a 500 kV line, including amortization of its original $57
   million cost.  In 1993, 1992, and 1991 the use fees collected under the
   agreement, net of related expenses, amounted to $3.9 million, $3.9 million
   and $4.0 million, respectively, and are included with other income, net, in
   the Statements of Income.  For other information see Note 3 under "FERC
   Reviews Equity Returns and Other Regulatory Matters."

      In 1989, Mississippi Power entered into a twenty-two year operating lease
   agreement for the use of 495 aluminum railcars to transport coal to Plant
   Daniel.  Gulf Power, as joint owner of Plant Daniel, is responsible for one
   half of the lease costs.  The Company's share of the lease is charged to
   fuel inventory and allocated to fuel expense as the fuel is used.  The lease
   costs charged to inventory were $1.2 million in 1993, $1.2 million for 1992
   and $1.3 million for 1991.  For the year 1994, the Company's annual lease
   payment will be $1.2 million.  The Company's annual lease payment for 1995
   will be $2.4 million and for 1996, 1997, and in 1998 the payment will be
   $1.2 million.  Lease payments after 1998 total approximately $17.4 million.
   The Company has the option after three years to purchase the railcars at the
   greater of termination value or fair market value.  Additionally, at the end
   of the lease term, Mississippi Power has the option to renew the lease.

   9. INCOME TAXES:

   Effective January 1, 1993, Mississippi Power adopted FASB Statement No. 109,
   Accounting for Income Taxes.  The adoption of Statement No. 109 resulted in
   cumulative adjustments that had no effect on net income.  The adoption also
   resulted in the recording of additional deferred income taxes and related
   assets and liabilities.  The related assets of $25 million are revenues to
   be received from customers.  These assets are attributable to tax benefits
   flowed through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to
   capitalized AFUDC.  The related liabilities of $48 million are revenues to
   be refunded to customers.  These liabilities are attributable to deferred
   taxes previously recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and
   unamortized investment tax credits.  Additionally, deferred income taxes
   related to accelerated tax depreciation previously shown as a reduction to
   utility plant were reclassified.





                                      
                                    II-203



   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


      Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are shown below:



      The tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
   assets and liabilities in the financial statements and their respective tax
   bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
   follows:



      In 1989, under order of the MPSC, Mississippi Power began amortizing
   deferred income taxes not covered by the Internal Revenue Service
   normalization requirements, that had been recorded at rates higher than
   those specified by the current statutory income tax rules.  This
   amortization occurred over a 60-month period, the effect of which was a
   reduction of income tax expense of approximately $2.7 million per year.  At
   December 31, 1993, this tax rate differential was fully amortized.

      Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life of the
   related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to
   reduce depreciation in the Statements of Income.  Credits amortized in this
   manner amounted to $1.5 million in 1993, $1.4 million in 1992 and $1.5
   million in 1991.  At December 31, 1993, all investment tax credits available
   to reduce federal income taxes payable had been utilized.

                                    II-204

   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


      The total provision for income taxes as a percentage of pre-tax income
   and the differences between those effective rates and the statutory federal
   tax rates were as follows:



      Mississippi Power and its affiliates file a consolidated federal income
   tax return.  Under a joint consolidated income tax agreement, each company's
   current and deferred tax expense is computed on a stand-alone basis, and
   consolidated tax savings are allocated to each company based on its ratio of
   taxable income to total consolidated taxable income.

   10.  OTHER LONG-TERM DEBT:

   Details of other long-term debt are as follows:



      Pollution control obligations represent installment or lease purchases of
   pollution control facilities financed by application of funds derived from
   sales by public authorities of tax-exempt revenue bonds.  Mississippi Power
   has authenticated and delivered to the Trustee a like principal amount of
   first mortgage bonds as security for obligations under collateralized
   installment agreements.  The principal and interest on the first mortgage
   bonds will be payable only in the event of default under these agreements.
   The 5.8% Series of pollution control obligations has a cash sinking fund
   requirement of $10 thousand annually through 1997 and $20 thousand in 1998.

      At December 31, 1993, under "Other Property and Investments"
   approximately $6 million related to the 6.20% Series of Pollution Control
   Obligations remains available for completion of certain solid waste disposal
   facilities.

      The 8.25 percent notes payable relate to the termination of two coal
   contracts.  See Note 5 under "Fuel Commitments" for information on these
   coal contracts.

      The annual estimated maturities of total notes payable are $8.8 million
   in 1994 and $10.8 million in 1995.



                                    II-205



   NOTES (continued)
   Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report


   11.  LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR:

   A summary of the improvement fund requirements and scheduled maturities and
   redemptions of long-term debt due within one year is as follows:



      The first mortgage bond improvement fund requirement is one percent of
   each outstanding series authenticated under the indenture of Mississippi
   Power prior to January 1 of each year, other than first mortgage bonds
   issued as collateral security for certain pollution control obligations.
   The requirement must be satisfied by June 1 of each year by depositing cash
   or reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional property equal to 166-2/3
   percent of such requirement.

   12.  COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS:

   Mississippi Power's first mortgage bond indenture and the Articles of
   Incorporation contain various common stock dividend restrictions.  At
   December 31, 1993, $86 million of retained earnings was restricted against
   the payment of cash dividends on common stock under the most restrictive
   terms of the mortgage indenture or Articles of Incorporation.

   13. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA  (UNAUDITED):

   Summarized quarterly financial data for 1993 and 1992 are as follows:


      Mississippi Power's business is influenced by seasonal weather conditions
and the timing of rate changes.





                                      
                                    II-206








SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA                                         
Mississippi Power Company 1993 Annual Report                                  



                                      
                                   II-207







                                      
                                    II-208




                                      
                                    II-209









                                      

                                    II-210






    STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    Mississippi Power Company







                                     II-211






    STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    Mississippi Power Company







                                     II-212




    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
    Mississippi Power Company





                                     II-213





    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
    Mississippi Power Company






                                     II-214











    BALANCE SHEETS
    Mississippi Power Company







                                     II-215






    BALANCE SHEETS
    Mississippi Power Company







                                     II-216






    BALANCE SHEETS
    Mississippi Power Company







                                     II-217











    BALANCE SHEETS
    Mississippi Power Company







                                     II-218







                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

                             OUTSTANDING SECURITIES
                              AT DECEMBER 31, 1993

                              FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS


                            POLLUTION CONTROL BONDS




                                PREFERRED STOCK







                                     II-219









                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

                               SECURITIES RETIRED
                                  DURING 1993

                              FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS
                                


                            POLLUTION CONTROL BONDS

 
                                PREFERRED STOCK









                                     II-220






                            SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND
                                POWER COMPANY

                              FINANCIAL SECTION



                                    II-221



MANAGEMENT'S REPORT
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


The management of Savannah Electric and Power Company has prepared -- and is
responsible for -- the financial statements and related information included in
this report.  These statements were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances and necessarily
include amounts that are based on the best estimates and judgments of
management.  Financial information throughout this annual report is consistent
with the financial statements.

         The Company maintains a system of internal accounting controls to
provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that books and
records reflect only authorized transactions of the Company.  Limitations exist
in any system of internal controls, however, based on a recognition that the
cost of the system should not exceed its benefits.  The Company believes its
system of internal accounting controls maintains an appropriate cost/benefit
relationship.

         The Company's system of internal accounting controls is evaluated on
an ongoing basis by the Company's internal audit staff.  The Company's
independent public accountants also consider certain elements of the internal
control system in order to determine their auditing procedures for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the financial statements.

         The audit committee of the board of directors, composed of four
directors who are not employees, provides a broad overview of management's
financial reporting and control functions.  Periodically, this committee meets
with management, the internal auditors and the independent public accountants
to ensure that these groups are fulfilling their obligations and to discuss
auditing, internal controls and financial reporting matters.  The internal
auditors and the independent public accountants have access to the members of
the audit committee at any time.

         Management believes that its policies and procedures provide
reasonable assurance that the Company's operations are conducted according to a
high standard of business ethics.  In management's opinion, the financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position,
results of operations and cash flows of Savannah Electric and Power Company in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.





/s/ Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr.           /s/ K. R. Willis
- --------------------------------        -------------------------------------
Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr.               K. R. Willis
President                               Vice-President
and Chief Executive Officer             Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer






                                    II-222

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets and statements of
capitalization of Savannah Electric and Power Company (a Georgia corporation)
as of December 31, 1993 and 1992, and the related statements of income,
retained earnings, paid-in capital, and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1993.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

         We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

         In our opinion, the financial statements (pages II-231 through 
II-244) referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the 
financial position of Savannah Electric and Power Company as of December 31, 
1993 and 1992, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the 
periods stated, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

         As explained in Notes 2 and 7 to the financial statements, effective
January 1, 1993, the Company changed its methods of accounting for
postretirement benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.





                                                /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.

Atlanta, Georgia,
February 16, 1994




                                    II-223

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL
CONDITION
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Savannah Electric and Power Company's net income after dividends on preferred
stock for 1993 totaled $21.5 million, representing a $1.0 million (4.6 percent)
increase from the prior year.  The revenue impact of an increase in retail
energy sales due to exceptionally hot summer weather was partially offset by
the implementation of a work force reduction program which resulted in a
one-time charge to operating expenses of approximately $4.5 million.

         In 1992, earnings were $20.5 million, representing a $3.5 million
(14.6 percent) decrease from the prior year.  This decrease resulted primarily
from increases in maintenance and administrative and general expenses,
partially offset by a 4.6 percent increase in retail operating revenues.
Operating revenues increased despite the negative impact of a $2.8 million
annual reduction in retail base rates effective in June 1992, and mild weather.

REVENUES

Total revenues for 1993 were $218.4 million, reflecting a 10.5 percent increase
over 1992, primarily due to an increase in retail energy sales.

         The following table summarizes the factors impacting operating
revenues compared to the prior year for the 1991-1993 period:






         Total retail revenues increased 11.5 percent in 1993, compared to a
4.6 percent increase in 1992.  The increase in 1993 retail revenues
attributable to growth in both retail customers and average use per customer
was enhanced by exceptionally hot weather during the summer.  The substantial
increase in fuel cost recovery and other revenues reflects increases in net
generation and the unit cost of purchased power.  The increase in 1992 retail
revenues resulted from growth in both retail customers and average use per
customer, but was substantially offset by mild weather and the June 1992 base
rate reduction.





                                    II-224

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


        Under the Company's fuel cost recovery provisions, fuel revenues equal
fuel expense, including the fuel and capacity components of purchased energy,
and have no effect on earnings.  Revenues from sales to non-affiliated
utilities under long-term contracts consist of capacity and energy components.
Capacity revenues reflect the recovery of fixed costs and a return on
investment under the contracts.  Energy is generally sold at variable cost.
The capacity and energy components were:




        Sales to affiliated companies within the Southern electric system
vary from year to year depending on demand and the availability and cost of
generating resources at each company.  These sales have little impact on
earnings.

        Kilowatt-hour sales for 1993 and the percent change by year were
as follows:



        The increases in energy sales in 1993 and 1992 continue to reflect
a growing customer base, an increase in average energy sales per customer, and
improved economic conditions in the Company's service area.  Sales were
enhanced in 1993 by temperature extremes in the summer months and in December.

EXPENSES

Total operating expenses for 1993 increased $20.3 million (12.4 percent) over
the prior year.  This increase includes a $10.8 million increase in fuel
expense, and an $8.7 million increase in other operation expenses.  Fuel
expenses increased primarily because of higher generation due to extremely hot
weather and higher cost fuel sources.  In 1992 an increase in purchased power
reflected a 15.4 percent decrease in generation compared to 1991.  Despite the
decrease in generation, total 1992 fuel expenses were substantially unchanged
from the prior year reflecting generation from higher cost fuel sources.

        The increase in other operation expenses reflects a $4.5 million
cost associated with a one-time charge related to a work force reduction
program.  The Company also recognized higher employee benefits costs under new
accounting rules adopted in 1993.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for
additional information on these new rules.  In 1992, the increase in other
operation expenses was primarily a result of increases in outside services and
administrative and general expenses, which reflected higher employee training
and benefits expenses.  Total interest expense on long-term debt was reduced by
5.4 percent in 1992, as the Company refinanced higher-cost debt.





                                    II-225

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


            The mix of energy supply is determined primarily by system load,
the unit cost of fuel consumed and the availability of units.

            The amount and sources of energy supply and the average cost of
fuel per net kilowatt-hour generated and purchased power were as follows:




EFFECTS OF INFLATION

The Company is subject to rate regulation and income tax laws that are based on
the recovery of historical costs.  Therefore, inflation creates an economic
loss because the Company is recovering its costs of investments in dollars that
have less purchasing power.  While the inflation rate has been relatively low
in recent years, it continues to have an adverse effect on the Company because
of the large investment in long-lived utility plant.  Conventional accounting
for historical cost does not recognize this economic loss nor the partially
offsetting gain that arises through financing facilities with fixed-money
obligations such as long-term debt and preferred stock.  Any recognition of
inflation by regulatory authorities is reflected in the rate of return allowed.

FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL

The results of operations for the past three years are not necessarily
indicative of future earnings potential.  The level of future earnings depends
on numerous factors ranging from growth in energy sales to regulatory matters.

            Future earnings in the near term will depend upon growth in energy
sales, which is subject to a number of factors.  Traditionally, these factors
included changes in contracts with neighboring utilities, energy conservation
practiced by customers, the elasticity of demand, weather, competition, and the
rate of economic growth in the Company's service area.  However, the Energy
Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act) will have a profound effect on the future of
the electric utility industry.  The Energy Act promotes energy efficiency,
alternative fuel use, and increased competition for electric utilities.  The
Energy Act allows Independent Power Producers (IPPs) to access a utility's
transmission network to sell electricity to other utilities.  This may enhance
the incentives for IPPs to build cogeneration plants for the Company's large
industrial and commercial customers.  Although the Energy Act does not require
transmission access to retail customers, pressure for legislation to allow
retail wheeling will continue.  The Company is preparing now to meet the
challenge of these major changes in the traditional business practices of
selling electricity.  If the Company does not remain a low-cost producer and
provide quality service, the Company's retail energy sales growth, as well as
new long-term contracts for energy sales outside the service area, could be
limited, and this could significantly erode earnings.

            Demand-side options -- programs that enable customers to lower or
alter their peak energy requirements -- have been initiated by the Company and
are a significant part of integrated resource planning.  Customers can receive
cash incentives for participating in these programs in addition to reducing
their energy requirements.  Expansion and increased utilization of these
programs will be contingent upon sharing of cost savings between the customers
and the Company.  Besides promoting energy efficiency, another benefit of these
programs could be the ability to defer the need to construct baseload
generating facilities further into the future.  The ability to defer major
construction projects, in conjunction with the precertification approval
process for such projects by the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC), will


                                    II-226

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


diminish the possible exposure to prudency disallowances and the resulting
impact on earnings.

            Compliance costs related to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990
(Clean Air Act) could reduce earnings if such costs are not fully recovered.
The Clean Air Act is discussed later under "Environmental Matters."

            Rates to retail customers served by the Company are regulated by
the GPSC.  In May 1992, the Company requested, and subsequently received,
approval by the GPSC to reduce annual base revenues by $2.8 million, effective
June 1992.  The reduction includes a base rate reduction of approximately $2.5
million spread among all classes of retail customers.  An additional $0.3
million reduction resulted from the implementation of an experimental,
time-of-use rate for certain commercial customers.  As part of this rate
settlement, it was informally agreed that the Company's earned rate of return
on common equity should be 12.95 percent.


NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 112,
Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits, which must be implemented by
1994.  The new standard requires that all types of benefits provided to former
or inactive employees and their families prior to retirement be accounted for
on an accrual basis.  These benefits include salary continuation, severance
pay, supplemental unemployment benefits, disability-related benefits, job
training, and health and life insurance coverage.

            The FASB has issued Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, which is effective in 1994.
Statement No. 115, supersedes FASB Statement No. 12, Accounting for Certain
Marketable Securities.  The Company adopted the new rules January 1, 1994, with
no material effect on the financial statements.

            On January 1, 1993, the Company changed its methods of accounting
for postretirement benefits other than pensions and for income taxes.  See
notes 2 and 7 to the financial statements regarding the impact of these
changes.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

OVERVIEW

The principal change in the Company's financial condition in 1993 was additions
of $73 million to utility plant.  The majority of funds needed for gross
property additions since 1990 have been provided from operating activities,
principally from earnings and non-cash charges to income such as depreciation
and deferred income taxes.  See Statements of Cash Flows for additional
information.

CAPITAL STRUCTURE

As of December 31, 1993, the Company's capital structure consisted of 45.3
percent common equity, 10.3 percent preferred stock and 44.4 percent long-term
debt, excluding amounts due within one year.  The Company's long-term financial
objective for capitalization ratios is to maintain a capital structure of
common equity at 45 percent, preferred stock at 10 percent and debt at 45
percent.

            Maturities and retirements of long-term debt were $4 million in
1993, $53 million in 1992 and $23 million in 1991.

            In November 1993, the Company issued 1,400,000 shares of 6.64
percent series preferred stock.  In December 1993, the Company redeemed all
800,000 shares outstanding of its 9.5 percent series preferred stock at the
prescribed redemption price of $26.57 plus accrued dividends.

            The composite interest rates for the years 1991 through 1993 as of
year-end were as follows:




                                    II-227

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


            The Company's current securities ratings are as follows:





CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION

The Company's projected construction expenditures for the next three years
total $98 million ($33 million in 1994, $32 million in 1995, and $33 million in
1996).  Actual construction costs may vary from this estimate because of such
factors as changes in environmental regulations; revised load projections; the
cost and efficiency of construction labor, equipment and materials; and the
cost of capital.  The largest project during this period is the addition of two
80 megawatt combustion turbine units, to be placed into service in 1994.  The
estimated cost of this project is $61 million.  The Company is also
constructing six combustion turbine units for Georgia Power Company.

OTHER CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

In addition to the funds needed for the construction program, approximately
$5.9 million will be needed by the end of 1996 for present sinking fund
requirements and maturities.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

In November 1990, the Clean Air Act was signed into law.  Title IV of the Clean
Air Act -- the acid rain compliance provision of the new law -- will have a
significant impact on the Company and other subsidiaries of the Southern
electric system.  Specific reductions in sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide
emissions from fossil-fired generating plants will be required in two phases.
Phase I compliance must be implemented in 1995, and affects eight generating
plants -- some 10,000 megawatts of capacity or 35 percent of total capacity --
in the Southern electric system.  Phase II compliance is required in 2000, and
all fossil-fired generating plants in the Southern electric system will be
affected.

            Beginning in 1995, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will
allocate annual sulfur dioxide emission allowances through the newly
established allowance trading program.  An emission allowance is the authority
to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide during a calendar year.  The method for
allocating allowances is based on the fossil fuel consumed from 1985 through
1987 for each affected generating unit.  Emission allowances are transferable
and can be bought, sold, or banked and used in the future.

            The sulfur dioxide emission allowance program is expected to 
minimize the cost of compliance.  The market for emission allowances is
developing slower than expected.  However, The Southern Company's sulfur
dioxide compliance strategy is designed to take advantage of allowances as the
market develops.

            The Southern Company expects to achieve Phase I sulfur dioxide
compliance at the eight affected plants by switching to low-sulfur
coal, and this would require some equipment upgrades.  This compliance strategy
is expected to result in unused emission allowances being banked for later use. 
Additional construction expenditures are required to install equipment for the
control of nitrogen oxide emissions at these eight plants.  Also, continuous
emissions monitoring equipment would be installed on all fossil-fired units. 
Under this Phase I compliance approach, additional construction expenditures
are estimated to total approximately $275 million through 1995 for The Southern
Company, of which the Company's portion is approximately $2 million.

            Phase II compliance costs are expected to be higher because
requirements are stricter and all fossil-fired generating plants are affected.
For sulfur dioxide compliance, The Southern Company could use emission
allowances banked during Phase I and increase fuel switching, install flue gas
desulfurization equipment at selected plants, and/or purchase more allowances
depending on the price and availability of allowances.  Also, in Phase II,
equipment to control nitrogen oxide emissions will be installed on additional
system fossil-fired plants as required to meet anticipated Phase II limits.
Therefore, during the period 1996 through 2000, compliance could require total
construction expenditures ranging from approximately $450 million to $800
million of which the Company's portion is expected to be approximately $25
million.  However, the full impact of



                                    II-228

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


Phase II compliance cannot now be determined with certainty, pending the
development of a market for emission allowances, the completion of EPA
regulations, and the possibility of new emission reduction technologies.

            An increase of up to 5 percent in annual revenue requirements from
customers could be necessary to fully recover the Company's costs of compliance
for both Phase I and II of the Clean Air Act.  Compliance costs include
construction expenditures, increased costs for switching to low-sulfur coal,
and costs related to emission allowances.

            There can be no assurance that all Clean Air Act costs will be
recovered.

            Title III of the Clean Air Act requires a multi-year EPA study of
power plant emissions of hazardous air pollutants.  The study will serve as the
basis for a decision on whether additional regulatory control of these
substances is warranted.  Compliance with any new control standards could
result in significant additional costs.  The impact of new standards -- if any
- -- will depend on the development and implementation of applicable regulations.

            The EPA continues to evaluate the need for a new short-term ambient
air quality standard for sulfur dioxide.  Preliminary results from an EPA study
on the impact of a new standard indicate that a number of plants could be
required to install sulfur dioxide controls.  These controls would be in
addition to the controls already required to meet the acid rain provision of
the Clean Air Act.  The EPA is expected to take some action on this issue in
1994.  The impact of any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the
standard and cannot be determined at this time.

            In addition, the EPA is evaluating the need to revise the ambient
air quality standards for particulate matters, nitrogen oxides, and ozone.  The
impact of any new standard will depend on the level chosen for the standard and
cannot be determined at this time.

            In 1994 or 1995, the EPA is expected to issue revised rules on air
quality control regulations related to stack height requirements of the Clean
Air Act.  The full impact of the final rules cannot be determined at this time,
pending their development and implementation.

            In 1993, the EPA issued a ruling confirming the non-hazardous
status of coal ash.  However, the EPA has until 1998 to classify co-managed
utility wastes--coal ash and other utility wastes--as either non-hazardous or
hazardous.  If the EPA classifies the co-managed wastes as hazardous, then
substantial additional costs for the management of such wastes may be required.
The full impact of any change in the regulatory status will depend on the
subsequent development of co-managed waste requirements.

            Savannah Electric and Power Company must comply with other
environmental laws and regulations that cover the handling and disposal of
hazardous waste.  Under these various laws and regulations, the Company could
incur costs to clean up properties currently or previously owned.  The Company
conducts studies to determine the extent of any required clean-up costs and
will recognize in the financial statements any costs to clean up known sites.

            Several major pieces of environmental legislation are in the
process of being reauthorized or amended by Congress.  These include:  the
Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.  Changes to
these laws could affect many areas of the Company's operations.  The full
impact of these requirements cannot be determined at this time, pending the
development and implementation of applicable regulations.

            Compliance with possible new legislation related to global climate
change, electromagnetic fields, and other environmental and health concerns
could significantly affect The Southern Company.  The impact of new legislation
- -- if any -- will depend on the subsequent development and implementation of
applicable regulations.  In addition, the potential for lawsuits alleging
damages caused by electromagnetic fields exists.

SOURCES OF CAPITAL

At December 31, 1993, the Company had $3.9 million of cash and $14.5 million of
unused credit arrangements with banks to meet its short-term cash needs.  The
Company had $3 million of short-term bank borrowings at December 31, 1993.  In
January 1994, the Company renegotiated a two-year revolving credit arrangement
with four of its





                                    II-229

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


existing banks for a total credit line of $20 million.  The primary purpose of
this additional credit is to provide interim funding for the Company's
combustion turbine construction program.

            It is anticipated that the funds required for construction and
other purposes, including compliance with environmental regulations, will be
derived from operations and the sale of additional first mortgage bonds and
preferred stock and capital contributions from The Southern Company.  The
Company is required to meet certain coverage requirements specified in its
mortgage indenture and corporate charter to issue new first mortgage bonds and
preferred stock.  The Company's coverage ratios are sufficiently high enough to
permit, at present interest levels, any foreseeable security sales.  The amount
of securities which the Company will be permitted to issue in the future will
depend upon market conditions and other factors prevailing at that time.





                                    II-230

    STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
    Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993  Annual Report



    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.






                                    II-231





    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
    For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
    Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    ( ) Denotes use of cash.
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.






                                    II-232





    BALANCE SHEETS
    At December 31, 1993 and 1992
    Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report



    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.






                                    II-233





    BALANCE SHEETS
    At December 31, 1993 and 1992
    Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.






                                    II-234





    STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION
    At December 31, 1993 and 1992
    Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.



                                    II-235





    STATEMENTS OF RETAINED EARNINGS
    For the Years Ended December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991
    Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993  Annual Report



    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements.






                                    II-236





NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

GENERAL

Savannah Electric and Power Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of The
Southern Company, which is the parent company of five operating companies, a
system service company, Southern Electric International (Southern Electric),
Southern Nuclear Operating Company (Southern Nuclear), and various other
subsidiaries related to foreign utility operations and domestic non-utility
operations.  At this time, the operations of the other subsidiaries are not
material.  The operating companies (Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power
Company, Gulf Power Company, Mississippi Power Company, and Savannah Electric
and Power Company) provide electric service in four Southeastern states.
Contracts among the companies -- dealing with jointly owned generating
facilities, interconnecting transmission lines and the exchange of electric
power -- are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) or
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The system service company
provides, at cost, specialized services to The Southern Company and to the
subsidiary companies.  Southern Electric designs, builds, owns and operates
power production facilities and provides a broad range of technical services to
industrial companies and utilities in the United States and a number of
international markets.  Southern Nuclear provides services to The Southern
Company's nuclear power plants.

            The Southern Company is registered as a holding company under the
Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA).  Both The Southern Company
and its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUHCA.
The Company also is subject to regulation by the FERC and the Georgia Public
Service Commission (GPSC).  The Company follows generally accepted accounting
principles and complies with the accounting policies and practices prescribed
by the GPSC.

            Certain prior years' data presented in the financial statements
have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.

REVENUES AND FUEL COSTS

The Company accrues revenues for services rendered but unbilled at the end of
each fiscal period.  Fuel costs are expensed as the fuel is used.  The
Company's electric rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations
in capacity and the energy components of purchased power costs.  Revenues
include the actual cost of fuel and purchased power incurred.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

Depreciation of the original cost of depreciable utility plant in service is
provided primarily by using composite straight-line rates, which approximated
2.9 percent in 1993 and 3.2 percent in 1992, and 1991.  The decrease in 1993
reflects the Company's implementation of new depreciation rates approved by the
GPSC.  These new rates provide for a timely recovery of the investments in the
Company's depreciable properties.

            When property subject to depreciation is retired or otherwise
disposed of in the normal course of business, its cost -- together with the
cost of removal, less salvage -- is charged to the accumulated provision for
depreciation.  Minor items of property included in the original cost of the
plant are retired when the related property unit is retired.

INCOME TAXES

The Company, which is included in the consolidated federal income tax return
filed by The Southern Company, provides deferred income taxes for all
significant income tax temporary differences.  Investment tax credits utilized
are deferred and amortized to income over the average lives of the related
property.

            In years prior to 1993, income taxes were accounted for and
reported under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 11.  Effective January
1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income
Taxes.  Statement No. 109 required, among other things, conversion to the
liability method of accounting for accumulated deferred income taxes.  See Note
7 for additional information about Statement No. 109.





                                    II-237

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report



ALLOWANCE FOR FUNDS USED DURING CONSTRUCTION       
   (AFUDC)

AFUDC represents the estimated debt and equity costs of capital funds that are
necessary to finance the construction of new facilities.  While cash is not
realized currently from such allowance, it increases the revenue requirement
over the service life of the plant through a higher rate base and higher
depreciation expense.  The composite rates used by the Company to calculate
AFUDC were 8.77 percent in 1993, 11.27 percent in 1992, and 11.38 percent in
1991.

UTILITY PLANT

Utility plant is stated at original cost, which includes materials, labor,
minor items of property, appropriate administrative and general costs,
payroll-related costs such as taxes, pensions and other benefits and the
estimated cost of funds used during construction.  The cost of maintenance,
repairs, and replacement of minor items of property is charged to maintenance
expense.  The cost of replacements of property (exclusive of minor items of
property) is charged to utility plant.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, temporary cash investments are
considered cash equivalents.  Temporary cash investments are securities with
original maturities of 90 days or less.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 107, Disclosure About Fair Value
of Financial Instruments, items for which the carrying amount does not
approximate fair value must be disclosed.  At December 31, 1993, the fair value
of long-term debt was $164 million and the carrying amount was $154 million. 
The fair value of long-term debt was $117 million and the carrying amount was
$109 million at December 31, 1992.  The fair value for long-term debt was based
on either closing market prices or closing prices of comparable instruments.

MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

Generally, materials and supplies include the cost of transmission,
distribution, and generating plant materials.  Materials are charged to
inventory when purchased and then expensed or capitalized to plant, as
appropriate, when installed.

2.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

PENSION PLANS

The Company has a defined benefit, trusteed, non-contributory pension plan that
covers substantially all regular employees.  Benefits under this plan reflect
the employee's years of service, age at retirement and average compensation for
the three years immediately preceding retirement.  The Company uses the
projected unit credit actuarial method for funding purposes, subject to
limitations under federal income tax regulations.  Amounts funded to the
pension fund are primarily invested in equity and debt securities.  FASB
Statement No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions, requires use of the
"projected unit credit" actuarial method for financial reporting purposes.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS

The Company also provides certain medical care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees.  Substantially all employees may become eligible for these
benefits when they retire.  A qualified trust for medical benefits has been
established for funding amounts to the extent deductible under federal income
tax regulations.  Accrued costs of life insurance benefits, other than current
cash payments for retirees, currently are not being funded.

            Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement No.
106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, on
a prospective basis.  Statement No. 106 requires that medical care and life
insurance benefits for retired employees be accounted for on an accrual basis
using a specified actuarial method, "benefit/years-of-service."











                                    II-238

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


            Consistent with regulatory treatment, the Company recognized these
costs on a cash basis as payments were made in 1992 and 1991.  The total costs
of such benefits recognized by the Company amounted to  $375 thousand in 1992
and $487 thousand in 1991.

STATUS AND COST OF BENEFITS

Shown in the following tables are actuarial results and assumptions for pension
and postretirement medical and life insurance benefits as computed under the
requirements of FASB Statements Nos. 87 and 106, respectively.  Retiree medical
and life insurance information is shown for 1993 only because Statement No. 106
was adopted as of January 1, 1993, on a prospective basis.  The funded status
of the plans at December 31 was as follows:




The weighted average rates assumed in the actuarial calculations
were:





            In accordance with Statement No. 87, an additional liability
related to under-funded accumulated benefit obligations was recognized at
December 31, 1993.  A corresponding net-of-tax charge of $2.1 million was
recognized as a separate component of Common Stock Equity in the Statements of
Capitalization.




            The assumption used in measuring the accumulated postretirement
medical benefit obligation was a weighted average medical care cost trend rate
of 11.3 percent for 1993, decreasing gradually to 6.0 percent through the year
2000 and remaining at that level thereafter.  An annual increase in the assumed
medical care cost trend rate by 1.0 percent would increase the accumulated
medical benefit obligation as of December 31, 1993, by $1.7 million and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of the net retiree
medical cost by $0.2 million.



                                    II-239

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


            Components of the plans' net costs are shown below:


                              
                                      
            Of the above net pension amounts, $2.0 million in 1993, $1.7
million in 1992 and $1.5 million in 1991 were recorded in operating expenses,
and the remainder was recorded in construction and other accounts.





                   Net postretirement medical and life insurance costs of $1.8
million in 1993 were charged to operating expenses.

                   The Company has a supplemental retirement plan for certain
executive employees.  The plan is unfunded and payable from the general funds
of the Company.  The Company has purchased life insurance on participating
executives, and plans to use these policies to satisfy this obligation.
Benefit costs associated with this plan for 1993, 1992 and 1991 were $980
thousand, $316 thousand and $338 thousand, respectively.  The 1993 benefit
costs reflect a one-time expense related to employees who were part of the work
force reduction program.

WORK FORCE REDUCTION PROGRAM

The Company has incurred additional costs for a one-time charge related to the
implementation of a work force reduction program.  In 1993, $4.5 million was
charged to operating expenses and $0.6 million was charged to other income
(expense).

3.  REGULATORY MATTERS

RATE MATTERS

In May 1992, the Company filed for, and subsequently received, GPSC approval to
implement new base rates designed to decrease base operating revenues by $2.8
million annually.  The reduction included a base rate reduction of
approximately $2.5 million spread among all classes of customers, effective
June 1992.  An additional $0.3 million reduction resulted from the
implementation of an experimental, time-of-use rate for certain commercial
customers in August 1992.

4.  CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM

The Company is engaged in a continuous construction program, currently
estimated to total $33 million in 1994, $32 million in 1995 and $33 million in
1996.  The estimates include AFUDC of $1.6 million in 1994, $0.6 million in
1995 and $0.7 million in 1996.  The construction program is subject to periodic
review and revision, and actual construction costs may vary from the above
estimates because of numerous factors.  These factors include:  changes in
business conditions; revised load growth estimates; changes in environmental
regulations; increasing cost of labor, equipment and materials; and cost of
capital.  The construction of two combustion turbine peaking units totaling 160
megawatts is planned to be completed in mid 1994.  The Company is also
constructing six combustion turbine peaking units owned by Georgia Power
Company.  The construction is to be completed in 1996.

                   See Management's Discussion and Analysis under
"Environmental Matters" for information on the impact of the Clean Air Act
Amendments of 1990 and other environmental matters.





                                    II-240

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report


5.  FINANCING AND COMMITMENTS

GENERAL

To the extent possible, the Company's construction program is expected to be
financed from internal sources and from the issuance of additional long-term
debt and preferred stock and capital contributions from The Southern Company.
Should the Company be unable to obtain funds from these sources, the Company
would have to use short-term indebtedness or other alternative, and possibly
costlier, means of financing.

                   The amounts of long-term debt and preferred stock that can
be issued in the future will be contingent on market conditions, the
maintenance of adequate earnings levels, regulatory authorizations and other
factors.  See Management's Discussion and Analysis for information regarding
the Company's earnings coverage requirements.

BANK CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS

At the beginning of 1994, unused credit arrangements with four banks totaled
$14.5 million, and expire at various times during 1994.

                   The Company has $20 million of revolving credit arrangements
expiring December 31, 1995.  These agreements allow short-term borrowings to be
converted into term loans, payable in 12 equal quarterly installments, with the
first installment due at the end of the first calendar quarter after the
applicable termination date or at an earlier date at the Company's option.  In
connection with these credit arrangements, the Company agrees to pay
commitments fees based on the unused portions of the commitments.

                   In connection with all other lines of credit, the Company
has the option of paying fees or maintaining compensating balances, which are
substantially all the cash of the Company except for daily working funds and
similar items.  These balances are not legally restricted from withdrawal.

ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN

As amended and supplemented, the Company's Indenture of Mortgage,  which
secures the first mortgage bonds issued by the Company, constitutes a direct
first lien on substantially all of the Company's fixed property and franchises.

OPERATING LEASES

The Company has rental agreements with various terms and expiration dates.
Rental expenses totaled $1.5 million, $1.5 million, and $1.4 million for 1993,
1992, and 1991, respectively.  At December 31, 1993, estimated future minimum
lease payments for non-cancelable operating leases were as follows:


                                                                     
                                                                             

6.  LONG-TERM POWER SALES AGREEMENTS

The operating subsidiaries of The Southern Company, including the Company, have
entered into long-term contractual agreements for the sale of capacity and
energy to certain non-affiliated utilities located outside the system's service
area.  Certain of these agreements are non-firm and are based on capacity of
the system in general.  Other agreements are firm and pertain to the capacity
related to specific generating units.  Because the energy is generally sold at
cost under these agreements, revenues from capacity sales primarily affect
profitability.  The Company's portion of capacity revenues has been as follows:





                   Long-term non-firm power of 400 megawatts was sold by the
Southern electric system in 1993 to Florida Power Corporation (FPC).  In
January 1994, this amount decreased to 200 megawatts, and the contract will
expire at year-end.




                                    II-241

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report



7.  INCOME TAXES

Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted FASB Statement No. 109,
Accounting for Income Taxes.  The adoption of Statement No. 109 resulted in
cumulative adjustments that had no material effect on net income.  The adoption
also resulted in the recording of additional deferred income taxes and related
assets and liabilities.  The related assets of $25 million are revenues to be
received from customers.  These assets are attributable to tax benefits flowed
through to customers in prior years and to taxes applicable to capitalized
AFUDC.  The related liabilities of $26 million are revenues to be refunded to
customers.  These liabilities are attributable to deferred taxes previously
recognized at rates higher than current enacted tax law and unamortized
investment tax credits.  Additionally, deferred income taxes related to
accelerated tax depreciation previously shown as a reduction to utility plant
were reclassified.

                   Details of the federal and state income tax provisions are
as follows:





                   The tax effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and
their respective tax bases, which give rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities are as follows:




                   Deferred investment tax credits are amortized over the life
of the related property with such amortization normally applied as a credit to
reduce depreciation in the Statements of Income.  Credits amortized in this
manner amounted to $0.7 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991.  At December 31, 1993,
all investment tax credits available to reduce federal income taxes payable had
been utilized.

                   A reconciliation of the effective income tax rate to the
statutory tax rate is as follows:



                   The Southern Company and its subsidiaries file a
consolidated federal income tax return.  Under a joint consolidated income tax
agreement, each company's current and deferred tax expense is computed on a
stand-alone basis, and consolidated tax savings are allocated to each company
based on its ratio of taxable income to total consolidated taxable income.



                                    II-242

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report



8.  CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK

In November 1993, the  Company issued 1,400,000 shares of 6.64 percent Series
Preferred stock which has redemption provisions of $26.66 per share plus
accrued dividends if on or prior to November 1, 1998, and at $25 per share plus
accrued dividends thereafter.

         In December 1993, the Company redeemed all 800,000 shares outstanding
of its 9.5 percent Series Preferred stock at the prescribed redemption price of
$26.57 plus accrued dividends.  Cumulative preferred stock dividends are
preferential to the payment of dividends on common stock.

9.  LONG-TERM DEBT

         The Company's Indenture related to its First Mortgage Bonds is 
unlimited as to the authorized amount of bonds which may be issued, provided 
that required property additions, earnings and other provisions of such 
Indenture are met.

         On February 19, 1993, the Company refunded its $4.1 million,
6.25 percent Series Pollution Control Bonds, due 1998 with $4.1 million of
variable rate Series Pollution Control Bonds due 2016.

         In 1994, there is a first mortgage bond maturity of $3.7
million.  The sinking fund requirements of first mortgage bonds are being
satisfied by certification of property additions.  See Note 10 "Long-Term Debt
Due Within One Year" for details.

         Details of other long-term debt are as follows:



         Sinking fund requirements and /or maturities through 1998
applicable to long-term debt are as follows:  $4.5 million in 1994; $0.7
million in 1995; $0.7 million in 1996; $0.1 million in 1997 and no requirement
is needed for 1998.

         Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded as utility plant
in service and the related obligation is classified as other long-term debt.
Leases are capitalized at the net present value of the future lease payments.
However, for ratemaking purposes, these obligations are treated as operating
leases, and as such, lease payments are charged to expense as incurred.

         The Company leases combustion turbine generating equipment under a
non-cancelable lease expiring in 1995, with renewal options extending until
2010.  The Company also leases a portion of its transportation fleet.  Under
the terms of these leases, the Company is responsible for taxes, insurance and
other expenses.




                                    II-243

NOTES (continued)
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report



10.  LONG-TERM DEBT DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

A summary of the improvement fund/sinking fund requirements and scheduled
maturities and redemptions of long-term debt due within one year is as follows:




            The first mortgage bond improvement (sinking) fund requirements
amount to 1 percent of each outstanding series of bonds authenticated under the
indentures prior to January 1 of each year, other than those issued to
collateralize pollution control and other obligations.  The requirements may be
satisfied by depositing cash or reacquiring bonds, or by pledging additional
property equal to 1 2/3 times the requirements.

11.  COMMON STOCK DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

The Company's Charter and Indentures contain certain limitations on the payment
of cash dividends on the preferred and common stocks.  At December 31, 1993,
approximately $55 million of retained earnings was restricted against the
payment of cash dividends on common stock under the terms of the Mortgage
Indenture.

12.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
     (UNAUDITED)

Summarized quarterly financial data for 1993 and 1992 are as follows (in
thousands):




                    The Company's business is influenced by seasonal weather
conditions, a seasonal rate structure and the timing of rate changes, among
other factors.




                                    II-244


    SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
    Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report




    Note:
    NR = Not Rated






                                    II-245




SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA
Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report








                                    II-246

    SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA (continued)
    Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report

                                                 






                                    II-247





     SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA  (continued)
     Savannah Electric and Power Company 1993 Annual Report








                                    II-248










    STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    Savannah Electric and Power Company

     

    * Tax-free common stock/bond exchange


                                    II-249






    STATEMENTS OF INCOME
    Savannah Electric and Power Company







                                    II-250






    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
    Savannah Electric and Power Company


                                    II-251



    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
    Savannah Electric and Power Company



                                    II-252




    BALANCE SHEETS
    Savannah Electric and Power Company



                                    II-253





    BALANCE SHEETS
    Savannah Electric and Power Company


                                    II-254 





    BALANCE SHEETS
    Savannah Electric and Power Company







                         II-255






    BALANCE SHEETS
    Savannah Electric and Power Company






                                    II-256





                                       
                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
                                       
                            OUTSTANDING SECURITIES
                             AT DECEMBER 31, 1993
                                       
                             FIRST MORTGAGE BONDS












                                    II-257


                     SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

                              SECURITIES RETIRED
                                 DURING 1993


                           POLLUTION CONTROL BONDS







                                    II-258

                                    PART III



Items 10, 11, 12 and 13 for SOUTHERN are incorporated by reference to ELECTION
OF DIRECTORS in SOUTHERN's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1994
annual meeting of stockholders.

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
          OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS

                   ALABAMA

  (a) (1)  Identification of directors of ALABAMA.

ELMER B. HARRIS (1)
President and Chief Executive Officer of ALABAMA
Age 54
Served as Director since 3-1-89.

BILL M. GUTHRIE
Executive Vice President of ALABAMA
Age 60
Served as Director since 12-16-88

EDWARD L. ADDISON (2)
Age 63
Served as Director since 11-1-83

WHIT ARMSTRONG (2)
Age 46
Served as Director since 9-24-82

PHILIP E. AUSTIN (2)
Age 52
Served as Director since 1-25-91

MARGARET A. CARPENTER (2)
Age 69
Served as Director since 2-26-93

PETER V. GREGERSON, SR. (2)
Age 65
Served as Director since 10-22-93

CRAWFORD T. JOHNSON, III (2)
Age 68
Served as Director since 4-18-69

CARL E. JONES, JR. (2)
Age 53
Served as Director since 4-22-88

WALLACE D. MALONE, JR. (2)
Age 57
Served as Director since 6-22-90

WILLIAM V. MUSE (2)
Age 54
Served as Director since 2-26-93

JOHN T. PORTER (2)
Age 62
Served as Director since 10-22-93

GERALD H. POWELL (2)
Age 67
Served as Director since 2-28-86

ROBERT D. POWERS (2)
Age 43
Served as Director since 1-24-92

JOHN W. ROUSE (2)
Age 56
Served as Director since 4-22-88

WILLIAM J. RUSHTON, III (2)
Age 64
Served as Director Since 9-18-70

JAMES H. SANFORD (2)
Age 49
Served as Director since 8-1-83

JOHN C. WEBB, IV (2)
Age 51
Served as Director since 4-22-77

LOUIS J. WILLIE (2)
Age 70
Served as Director since 3-23-84

JOHN W. WOODS (2)
Age 62
Served as Director since 4-20-73

(1)   Previously served as Director of ALABAMA from 1980 to 1985.
(2)   No position other than Director.

   Each of the above is currently a director of ALABAMA, serving a term running
from the last annual meeting of ALABAMA's stockholder (April 23, 1993) for





                                     III-1

meeting of ALABAMA's stockholder (April 23, 1993) for one year until the next
annual meeting or until a successor is elected and qualified, except for the
individuals elected in October 1993.
   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings with
directors or officers of ALABAMA acting solely in their capacities as such.

   (b)(1)  Identification of executive officers of ALABAMA.

ELMER B. HARRIS (1)
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 54
Served as Executive Officer since 3-1-89

BANKS H. FARRIS
Senior Vice President
Age 59
Served as Executive Officer since 12-3-91

WILLIAM B. HUTCHINS, III
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Age 50
Served as Executive Officer since 12-3-91

T. HAROLD JONES
Senior Vice President
Age 63
Served as Executive Officer since 12-1-91

CHARLES D. MCCRARY
Senior Vice President
Age 42
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-91

(1)   Previously served as executive officer of ALABAMA from 1979 to 1985.

   Each of the above is currently an executive officer of ALABAMA, serving a
term running from the last annual meeting of the directors (April 23, 1993) for
one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified.

   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
ALABAMA acting solely in their capacities as such.

   (c)(1)  Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

   (d)(1)  Family relationships.
           None.

   (e)(1)  Business experience.

ELMER B. HARRIS - Elected in 1989; Chief Executive Officer.  He previously
served as Senior Executive Vice President of GEORGIA from 1986 to 1989.
Director of SOUTHERN and AmSouth Bancorporation.

BILL M. GUTHRIE - Elected in 1988; also served since 1991 as Chief Production
Officer of SOUTHERN system and Executive Vice President and Chief Production
Officer of SCS; Vice President of SOUTHERN, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH and
Executive Vice President of GEORGIA.  Responsible primarily for providing
overall management of materials management, fuel services, operating and
planning services, fossil, hydro and bulk power operations of the Southern
electric system.

EDWARD L. ADDISON - Elected in 1983; President of SOUTHERN from 1983 until
elected Chairman of the Board in 1994.  Director of SOUTHERN, GEORGIA, Phelps
Dodge Corporation, Protective Life Corporation, Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A.,
Wachovia Corporation of Georgia and CSX Corporation.

WHIT ARMSTRONG - President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The
Citizens Bank, Enterprise, Alabama.  Also, President and Chairman of the Board
of Enterprise Capital Corporation, Inc.

PHILIP E. AUSTIN - Chancellor, The University of Alabama System.  Previously
President and Chancellor of Colorado State University.

MARGARET A. CARPENTER - President, Compos-it, Inc. (typographics), Montgomery,
Alabama.

PETER V. GREGERSON, SR. - Chairman Emeritus of Gregerson's Foods, Inc. (retail
groceries), Gadsden, Alabama.  Director of AmSouth Bank of Gadsden, Alabama.


                                     III-2


CRAWFORD T. JOHNSON, III - Chairman of Coca-Cola Bottling Company United, Inc.,
Birmingham, Alabama.  Director of Protective Life Corporation, AmSouth
Bancorporation and Russell Corporation.

CARL E. JONES, JR. - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of First Alabama
Bank, Mobile, Alabama.

WALLACE D. MALONE, JR. - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SouthTrust
Corporation, bank holding company, Birmingham, Alabama.

WILLIAM V. MUSE - President and Chief Executive Officer of Auburn University.
He previously served as President of the University of Akron from 1984 to 1992.

JOHN T. PORTER  - Pastor of Sixth Avenue Baptist Church, Birmingham, Alabama.
Director of Citizen Federal Bank.

GERALD H. POWELL - President, Dixie Clay Company of Alabama, Inc. (refractory
clay producer), Jacksonville, Alabama.

ROBERT D. POWERS - President, The Eufaula Agency, Inc. (real estate and
insurance), Eufaula, Alabama.

JOHN W. ROUSE - President and Chief Executive Officer of Southern Research
Institute (non-profit research institute), Birmingham, Alabama.  Director of
Protective Life Corporation.

WILLIAM J. RUSHTON, III - Chairman of the Board, Protective Life Corporation
(insurance holding company), Birmingham, Alabama.  Director of SOUTHERN and
AmSouth Bancorporation.

JAMES H. SANFORD - President, HOME Place Farms Inc. (diversified farmers and
ginners), Prattville, Alabama.

JOHN C. WEBB, IV - President, Webb Lumber Company, Inc. (wholesale lumber),
Demopolis, Alabama.

LOUIS J. WILLIE - Chairman of the Board and President of Booker T. Washington
Insurance Co.  Director of SOUTHERN.

JOHN W. WOODS - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, AmSouth Bancorporation
(multi-bank holding company), Birmingham, Alabama.  Director of Protective Life
Corporation.

BANKS H. FARRIS - Elected in 1991; responsible primarily for providing the
overall management of the Human Resources, Information Resources, Power
Delivery and Marketing Departments and the six geographic divisions.  He
previously served as Vice President - Human Resources from 1989 to 1991 and
Division Vice President from 1985 to 1989.

WILLIAM B. HUTCHINS, III - Elected in 1991; Chief Financial Officer,
responsible primarily for providing the overall management of accounting and
financial planning activities.  He previously served as Vice President and
Treasurer from 1983 to 1991.

T. HAROLD JONES - Elected in 1991; responsible primarily for providing the
overall management of the Fossil Generation, Hydro Generation, Power Generation
Services and Fuels Departments.  He previously served as Vice President -
Fossil Generation from 1986 to 1991.

CHARLES D. MCCRARY - Elected in 1991; responsible for the External Relations
Department, Operating Services and Corporate Services.  Also, assumes
responsibility for financial matters while Mr. Hutchins is on medical leave.
He previously served as Vice President of Administrative Services - Nuclear of
SCS from 1988 to 1991.

  (f)(1)  Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
          None.





                                     III-3

                     GEORGIA

   (a)(2)  Identification of directors of GEORGIA.

H. ALLEN FRANKLIN
President and Chief Executive Officer.
Age 49
Served as Director since 1-1-94.

WARREN Y. JOBE
Executive Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer.
Age 53
Served as Director since 8-1-82

EDWARD L. ADDISON (1)
Age 63
Served as Director since 11-1-83

BENNETT A. BROWN (1)
Age 64
Served as Director since 5-15-80

WILLIAM P. COPENHAVER (1)
Age 69
Served as Director since 6-18-86

A. W. DAHLBERG (1)
Age 53
Served as Director since 6-1-88

WILLIAM A. FICKLING, JR. (1)
Age 61
Served as Director since 4-18-73

L. G. HARDMAN, III (1)
Age 54
Served as Director since 6-25-79

JAMES R. LIENTZ, JR. (1)
Age 50
Served as Director since 7-1-93

WILLIAM A. PARKER, JR. (1)
Age 66
Served as Director since 5-19-65

G. JOSEPH PRENDERGAST (1)
Age 48
Served as Director since 1-20-93

HERMAN J. RUSSELL (1)
AGE 63
Served as Director since 5-18-88

GLORIA M. SHATTO (1)
Age 62
Served as Director since 2-20-80

ROBERT STRICKLAND (1)
Age 66
Served as Director since 11-21-79

WILLIAM JERRY VEREEN (1)
Age 53
Served as Director since 5-18-88

THOMAS R. WILLIAMS (1)
Age 65
Served as Director since 3-17-82

    (1)    No position other than Director.

   Each of the above is currently a director of GEORGIA, serving a term running
from the last annual meeting of GEORGIA's stockholder (May 19, 1993) for one
year until the next annual meeting or until a successor is elected and
qualified, except Messrs.  Franklin and Lientz.

   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he/she was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or
understandings with directors or officers of GEORGIA acting solely in their
capacities as such.

   (b)(2)  Identification of executive officers of GEORGIA.

H. ALLEN FRANKLIN
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 49
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-94

WARREN Y. JOBE
Executive Vice President, Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer and Director
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-82





                                     III-4


DWIGHT H. EVANS
Executive Vice President - External Affairs
Age 45
Served as Executive Officer since 4-19-89

GENE R. HODGES
Executive Vice President - Customer Operations
Age 55
Served as Executive Officer since 11-19-86

KERRY E. ADAMS
Senior Vice President - Fossil and Hydro Power
Age 49
Served as Executive Officer since 5-1-89

WAYNE T. DAHLKE
Senior Vice President - Power Delivery
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 4-19-89

JAMES K. DAVIS
Senior Vice President - Corporate Relations
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 10-1-93

ROBERT H. HAUBEIN
Senior Vice President - Administrative Services
Age 54
Served as Executive Officer since 2-19-92

GALE E. KLAPPA
Senior Vice President - Marketing
Age 43
Served as Executive Officer since 2-19-92

FRED D. WILLIAMS
Senior Vice President - Bulk Power Markets
Age 49
Served as Executive Officer since 11-18-92

   Each of the above is currently an executive officer of GEORGIA, serving a
term running from the last annual meeting of the directors (May 19,1993) for
one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified, except Messrs. Franklin and Davis.

   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
GEORGIA acting solely in their capacities as such.

   (c)(2)    Identification of certain significant employees.
             None.

   (d)(2)    Family relationships.
             None.

   (e)(2)    Business experience.

H. ALLEN FRANKLIN - President and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994.
He previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS from 1988
through 1993.  Director of SOUTHERN and SouthTrust Bank.

WARREN Y. JOBE - Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since
1982 and Treasurer since 1992.  Responsible for financial and accounting
operations and planning, internal auditing, procurement, corporate secretary
and treasury operations.

EDWARD L. ADDISON - President of SOUTHERN from 1983 until his election as
Chairman of Board in 1994.  Director of SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, Wachovia Bank of
Georgia, N.A., Wachovia Corporation of Georgia, Phelps Dodge Corporation,
Protective Life Corporation and CSX Corporation.

BENNETT A. BROWN - Retired from serving as Chairman of the Board of NationsBank
on December 31, 1992.  Previously Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of C&S/Sovran Corporation.  Director of Confederation Life Insurance
Company.

WILLIAM P. COPENHAVER - Director, Arcadian Fertilizer, L.P. (agricultural and
industrial chemicals).  Director of SOUTHERN and Georgia Bank & Trust Company.

A. W. DAHLBERG - President of SOUTHERN effective in 1994.  He previously served
as President and Chief Executive Officer of GEORGIA from 1988 through 1993.
Director of SOUTHERN, Trust Company Bank, Trust Company of Georgia, Protective
Life Corporation and Equifax, Inc.

WILLIAM A. FICKLING, JR. - Chairman of the Board, Mulberry Street Investment
Company, Macon, Georgia, and Co-chairman of Beech Street Corporation
(insurance).


                                     III-5


L. G. HARDMAN, III -   Chairman of the Board of First National Bank of
Commerce, Georgia and Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
First Commerce Bancorp.  Chairman of the Board, President and Treasurer of
Harmony Grove Mills, Inc. (real estate investments).  Director of SOUTHERN.

JAMES R. LIENTZ, JR. - President of NationsBank of Georgia since 1993.  He
previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of former Citizens &
Southern Bank of South Carolina (now NationsBank) from 1990 to 1993, and from
1987 to 1990, he was head of Corporate Bank Group of NationsBank of Georgia,
N.A.

WILLIAM A. PARKER, JR. - Chairman of the Board, Cherokee Investment Company,
Inc. (private investments), Atlanta, Georgia.  Director of SOUTHERN, Genuine
Parts Company, Life Insurance Company of Georgia, First Union Real Estate
Investment Trust, Atlantic Realty Company, ING North America Insurance Company,
Post Properties, Inc. and Haverty Furniture Companies, Inc.

G. JOSEPH PRENDERGAST - President and Chief Executive Officer, Wachovia
Corporation of Georgia and Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A.  since 1993.  From
1988 to 1993, he served as Executive Vice President of Wachovia Corporation and
President of Wachovia Corporate Services, Inc.

HERMAN J. RUSSELL - Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, H. J.
Russell & Company (construction), Atlanta, Georgia.  Chairman of the Board,
Citizens Trust Bank, and Citizens Bancshares Corporation Atlanta, Georgia.
Director of Wachovia Corporation.

GLORIA M. SHATTO - President, Berry College, Mount Berry, Georgia.  Director of
SOUTHERN, Becton Dickinson & Company, Kmart Corporation and Texas Instruments,
Inc.

ROBERT STRICKLAND - Retired Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
of SunTrust Banks, Inc.  Director of Georgia US Corporation, Equifax, Inc.,
Life Insurance Company of Georgia, Oxford Industries, Inc. and The Investment
Centre.

WILLIAM JERRY VEREEN - President and Chief Executive Officer of Riverside
Manufacturing Company (manufacture and sale of uniforms), Moultrie, Georgia.
Director of Gerber Garment Technology, Inc. and Textile Clothing Technology
Corp.

THOMAS R. WILLIAMS - President of The Wales Group, Inc. (investments) Atlanta,
Georgia.  Director of ConAgra, Inc., BellSouth Corporation, National Life
Insurance Company of Vermont, AppleSouth, Inc., and American Software, Inc.

DWIGHT H. EVANS - Executive Vice President - External Affairs since 1989.
Senior Vice President - Public Affairs from 1988 to 1989.

GENE R. HODGES - Executive Vice President - Customer Operations since 1992.
Senior Vice President  - Region/Land Operations from 1990 to 1992.  Senior Vice
President - Division Operations from 1986 to 1990.

KERRY E. ADAMS - Senior Vice President - Fossil and Hydro Power since 1989.

WAYNE T. DAHLKE - Senior Vice President - Power Delivery since February 1992.
Senior Vice President - Marketing from 1989 to 1992.

JAMES K. DAVIS - Senior Vice President - Corporate Relations since October
1993.  Vice President of Corporate Relations from 1988 to 1993.

ROBERT H. HAUBEIN - Senior Vice President - Administrative Services since 1992.
Vice President - Northern Region from 1990 to 1992.  Division Vice President of
ALABAMA from 1985 to 1990.

GALE E. KLAPPA - Senior Vice President - Marketing since 1992.  Vice President
- - Public Relations of SCS from 1981 to 1992.

FRED D. WILLIAMS - Senior Vice President - Bulk Markets since 1992.  Vice
President - Bulk Power Markets from 1984 to 1992.

   (f)(2)  Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.





                                     III-6


                         GULF

   (a)(3)  Identification of directors of GULF.

D. L. MCCRARY (1)
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Age 64
Served as Director since 4-28-83

TRAVIS J. BOWDEN
President
Age 55
Served as Director since 2-1-94

PAUL J. DENICOLA (2)
Age 45
Served as Director since 4-19-91

REED BELL, SR., M.D. (2)
Age 67
Served as Director since 1-17-86

FRED C. DONOVAN, SR. (2)
Age 53
Served as Director since 1-18-91

W. D. HULL, JR. (2)
Age 61
Served as Director since 10-14-83

C. W. RUCKEL (2)
Age 66
Served as Director since 4-20-62

J. K. TANNEHILL (2)
Age 60
Served as Director since 7-19-85

   (1)    Retires May 1, 1994.
   (2)    No position other than Director.

   Each of the above is currently a director of GULF, serving a term running
from the last annual meeting of GULF's stockholder (June 29, 1993) for one year
until the next annual meeting or until a successor is elected and qualified,
except for Mr. Bowden.

   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or understandings with
directors or officers of GULF acting solely in their capacities as such.

   (b)(3)  Identification of executive officers of GULF.

D. L. MCCRARY
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Age 64
Served as Executive Officer since 5-1-83

TRAVIS J. BOWDEN
President
Age 55
Served as Executive Officer since 2-1-94

F. M. FISHER, JR.
Vice President - Employee and External Relations
Age 45
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-89

JOHN E. HODGES, JR.
Vice President - Customer Operations
Age 50
Served as Executive Officer since 5-19-89

G. EDISON HOLLAND, JR.
Vice President and Corporate Counsel
Age 41
Served as Executive Officer since 4-25-92

EARL B. PARSONS, JR.
Vice President - Power Generation and Transmission
Age 55
Served as Executive Officer since 4-14-78

A. E. SCARBROUGH
Vice President - Finance
Age 57
Served as Executive Officer since 9-21-77

   Each of the above is currently an executive officer of GULF, serving a term
running from the last annual meeting of the directors (July 23, 1993) for one
year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified, except for Mr. Bowden.


                                     III-7


   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
GULF acting solely in their capacities as such.

   (c)(3)  Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

   (d)(3)  Family relationships.
           None.

   (e)(3)  Business experience.

D. L. MCCRARY - Elected Chairman of the Board effective February 1994.  He
previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1983 to 1994;
responsible primarily for formation of overall corporate policy.

TRAVIS J. BOWDEN - Elected President effective February 1994 and, upon Mr.
McCrary's retirement May 1994, Chief Executive Officer.  He previously served
as Executive Vice President of ALABAMA from 1985 to 1994.

PAUL J. DENICOLA - President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS effective
January 1994.  He previously served as Executive Vice President of SCS from
1991 through 1993 and President and Chief Executive Officer of MISSISSIPPI from
1989 to 1991.  Director of SOUTHERN, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH.

REED BELL, SR., M.D. - Medical Doctor and since 1989, employee of the State of
Florida.  He serves as Medical Director of Children's Medical Services,
District 1.  He previously served as Medical Director of the Escambia County
Public Health Unit until July 1992.  He also previously maintained a private
medical practice and served as Medical Director of Children's Medical Services
from 1988 to 1989.

FRED C. DONOVAN, SR. - President of Baskerville - Donovan, Inc., Pensacola,
Florida, an architectural and engineering firm.  Director of Baptist Health
Care, Inc.  

W. D. HULL, JR. - Vice Chairman of the Sun Bank/West Florida,
Panama City, Florida.  He previously served as President and Chief Executive
Officer and Director of the Sun Commercial Bank, Panama City, Florida from 1987
to 1992.

C. W. RUCKEL - Chairman of the Board of The Vanguard Bank and Trust Company,
Valparaiso, Florida.  President and owner of Ruckel Properties, Inc.,
Valparaiso, Florida.

J. K. TANNEHILL - President and Chief Executive Officer of Tannehill
International Industries, Lynn Haven, Florida.  He previously served as
President and Chief Executive Officer of Stock Equipment Company, Chagrin
Falls, Ohio, until 1991.  Director of Sun Bank/West Florida, Panama City,
Florida.

F. M. FISHER, JR. - Elected Vice President - Employee and External Relations in
1989.  He previously served as General Manager of Central Division from 1988 to
1989.

JOHN E. HODGES, JR. - Elected Vice President - Customer Operations in 1989.  He
previously served as General Manager of Western Division from 1986 to 1989.

G. EDISON HOLLAND, JR. - Elected Vice President and Corporate Counsel in 1992;
responsible for all legal matters associated with GULF and serves as compliance
officer.  Also served, since 1982, as a partner in the law firm, Beggs & Lane.

EARL B. PARSONS, JR. - Elected Vice President - Power Generation and
Transmission in 1989; responsible for generation and transmission of electrical
energy.  He previously served as Vice President - Electric Operations from 1978
to 1989.

A. E. SCARBROUGH - Elected Vice President - Finance in 1980; responsible for
all accounting and financial services of GULF.

   (f)(3)  Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.





                                     III-8


                       MISSISSIPPI

   (a)(4)  Identification of directors of MISSISSIPPI.

DAVID M. RATCLIFFE
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 45
Served as Director since 4-24-91

PAUL J. DENICOLA (1)
Age 45
Served as Director since 5-1-89

EDWIN E. DOWNER (1)
Age 62
Served as Director since 4-24-84

ROBERT S. GADDIS (1)
Age 62
Served as Director since 1-21-86

WALTER H. HURT, III (1)
Age 58
Served as Director since 4-6-82

AUBREY K. LUCAS (1)
Age 59
Served as Director since 4-24-84

EARL D. MCLEAN, JR. (1)
Age 68
Served as Director since 10-21-78

GERALD J. ST. Pe (1)
Age 54
Served as Director since 1-21-86

LEO W. SEAL, JR. (1)
Age 69
Served as Director since 4-4-67

N. EUGENE WARR (1)
Age 58
Served as Director since 1-21-86

   (1)     No position other than Director.

   Each of the above is currently a director of MISSISSIPPI, serving a term
running from the last annual meeting of MISSISSIPPI's stockholder (April 6,
1993) for one year until the next annual meeting or until a successor is
elected and qualified.
   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or
understandings with directors or officers of MISSISSIPPI acting solely in their
capacities as such.

   (b)(4)  Identification of executive officers of MISSISSIPPI.

DAVID M. RATCLIFFE
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 45
Served as Executive Officer since 4-24-91

H. E. BLAKESLEE
Vice President - Customer Services and Marketing
Age 53
Served as Executive Officer since 1-25-84

THOMAS A. FANNING
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Age 37
Served as Executive Officer since 4-1-92

DON E. MASON
Vice President - External Affairs and Corporate Services
Age 52
Served as Executive Officer since 7-27-83

   Each of the above is currently an executive officer of MISSISSIPPI, serving
a term running from the last annual meeting of the directors (April 28, 1993)
for one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected
and qualified.

   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
MISSISSIPPI acting solely in their capacities as such.

   (c)(4)  Identification of certain significant employees.
           None.

   (d)(4)  Family relationships.
           None.

   (e)(4)  Business experience.





                                     III-9


DAVID M. RATCLIFFE - President and Chief Executive Officer since 1991.  He
previously served as Executive Vice President of SCS from 1989 to 1991 and Vice
President of SCS from 1985 to 1989.

PAUL J. DENICOLA - President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS effective 1994.
Executive Vice President of SCS from 1991 through 1993.  He previously served
as President and Chief Executive Officer of MISSISSIPPI from 1989 to 1991.
Director of SOUTHERN, SAVANNAH and GULF.

EDWIN E. DOWNER - Business consultant specializing in economic analysis,
management controls and procedural studies since 1990.  President and Chief
Executive Officer, Unifirst Bank for Savings, F.A., Midland Division, Meridian,
Mississippi from 1985 to 1990.

ROBERT S. GADDIS - President of the Trustmark National Bank - Laurel,
Mississippi.

WALTER H. HURT, III - President and Director of NPC Inc. (Investments).  Vicar,
All Saints Church, Inverness, Mississippi, and St.  Thomas Church, Belzoni,
Mississippi.  Retired newspaper editor and publisher.

AUBREY K. LUCAS - President of the University of Southern Mississippi,
Hattiesburg, Mississippi.

EARL D. MCLEAN, JR. - Co-owner of the T. C. Griffith Insurance Agency, Inc.
(insurance and real estate), Columbia, Mississippi.  Director of SOUTHERN.

GERALD J. ST. Pe - President of Ingalls Shipbuilding and Corporate Vice
President of Litton Industries, Inc. since 1985.  Director of Merchants and
Marine Bank, Pascagoula, Mississippi.

LEO W. SEAL, JR. - Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Hancock
Bank, Gulfport, Mississippi, and Chairman of the Board of Harrison Life
Insurance Company.  Director of Hancock Bank and Bank of Wiggins.

N. EUGENE WARR - Retailer (Biloxi and Gulfport, Mississippi.)  Chairman of the
Board of First Jefferson Corporation and the Jefferson Bank of Biloxi,
Mississippi.  

H. E. BLAKESLEE - Elected Vice President in 1984.  Primarily responsible
for rate design, economic analysis and revenue forecasting, economic
development, marketing and district operations.

THOMAS A. FANNING - Elected Vice President in 1992; responsible primarily for
accounting, treasury, finance, information resources and risk management.  He
previously served as Treasurer of SEI from 1986 to 1992 and Director of
Corporate Finance of SCS from 1988 to 1992.

DON E. MASON - Elected Vice President in 1983.  Primarily responsible for the
external affairs functions, including governmental and regulatory affairs,
corporate communications, security, materials and general services, as well as
the human resources function.

   (f)(4)  Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.

                        SAVANNAH

   (a)(5)  Identification of directors of SAVANNAH.

ARTHUR M. GIGNILLIAT, JR.
President and Chief Executive Officer
Age 61
Served as Director since 8-31-82

HELEN QUATTLEBAUM ARTLEY (1)
Age 66
Served as Director since 5-17-77

PAUL J. DENICOLA (1)
Age 45
Served as Director since 3-14-91

BRIAN R. FOSTER (1)
Age 44
Served as Director since 5-16-89

WALTER D. GNANN (1)
Age 58
Served as Director since 5-17-83

JOHN M. MCINTOSH (1)
Age 69
Served as Director since 2-27-68





                                     III-10


ROBERT B. MILLER, III (1)
Age 48
Served as Director since 5-17-83

JAMES M. PIETTE (1)
Age 69
Served as Director since 6-12-73

ARNOLD M. TENEBAUM (1)
Age 57
Served as Director since 5-17-77

FREDERICK F. WILLIAMS, JR. (1)
Age 66
Served as Director since 7-2-75

   (1)   No Position other than Director.

   Each of the above is currently a director of SAVANNAH, serving a term
running from the last annual meeting of SAVANNAH's stockholder (May 18, 1993)
for one year until the next annual meeting or until a successor is elected and
qualified.

   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he/she was or is to be
selected as a director or nominee, other than any arrangements or
understandings with directors or officers of SAVANNAH acting solely in their
capacities as such.

   (b)(5)  Identification of executive officers of SAVANNAH.

ARTHUR M. GIGNILLIAT, JR.
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Age 61
Served as Executive Officer since 2-15-72

W. MILES GREER
Vice President - Marketing and Customer Services
Age 50
Served as Executive Officer since 11-20-85

LARRY M. PORTER
Vice President - Operations
Age 49
Served as Executive Officer since 7-1-91

KIRBY R. WILLIS
Vice President, Treasurer and
Chief Financial Officer
Age 42
Served as Executive Officer since 1-1-94

   Each of the above is currently an executive officer of SAVANNAH, serving a
term running from the last annual meeting of the directors (May 18, 1993) for
one year until the next annual meeting or until his successor is elected and
qualified, except Mr. Willis.

   There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals
listed above and any other person pursuant to which he was or is to be selected
as an officer, other than any arrangements or understandings with officers of
SAVANNAH acting solely in their capacities as such.

  (c)(5)  Identification of certain significant employees.
          None.

  (d)(5)  Family relationships.
          None.

  (e)(5)  Business experience.

ARTHUR M. GIGNILLIAT, JR. - Elected President and Chief Executive Officer in
1985.  Director of Savannah Foods and Industries, Inc.

HELEN QUATTLEBAUM ARTLEY - Homemaker and Civic Worker.

PAUL J. DENICOLA - President and Chief Executive Officer of SCS effective
January 1994.  Executive Vice President of SCS from 1991 through 1993.  He
previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of MISSISSIPPI from
1989 to 1991.  Director of SOUTHERN, GULF and MISSISSIPPI.

BRIAN R. FOSTER - President of NationsBank of Georgia, N.A., in Savannah since
1988.

WALTER D. GNANN - President of Walt's TV, Appliance and Furniture Co., Inc.,
Springfield, Georgia.  Past Chairman of the Development Authority of Effingham
County, Georgia.

                                     III-11


JOHN M. MCINTOSH - Chairman of the Executive Committee, SAVANNAH; retired
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, SAVANNAH from
1974 to 1984.  Director of SOUTHERN.

ROBERT B. MILLER, III - President of American Builders of Savannah.

JAMES M. PIETTE - Vice President - Special Projects, Union Camp Corporation,
since 1989.  Retired Vice Chairman, Board of Directors, Union Camp Corporation
from 1987 to 1989.

ARNOLD M. TENENBAUM - President of Chatham Steel Corporation.  Director of
First Union National Bank of Georgia and Savannah Foods and Industries, Inc.

FREDERICK F. WILLIAMS, JR. - Retired Partner and Consultant, Hilb, Rogal and
Hamilton Employee Benefits, Incorporated (Insurance Brokers), formerly Jones,
Hill & Mercer.

W. MILES GREER - Vice President - Marketing and Customer Services effective
January 1994.  Formerly served as Vice President - Economic Development and
Corporate Services from 1989 through 1993 and Vice President - Economic
Development and Governmental Affairs from 1985 to 1989.

LARRY M. PORTER - Vice President - Operations since 1991.  Responsible for
managing the areas of fuel procurement, power production, transmission and
distribution, engineering and system operation.  Previously he served as
Assistant Plant Manager of GEORGIA's Plant Scherer from 1984 to 1991.

KIRBY R. WILLIS - Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer
effective January 1994.  Responsible for all financial activities, Information
Resources, Human Resources, Corporate Services, and Environmental Affairs and
Safety.  He previously served as Treasurer, Controller and Assistant Secretary
from 1991 to 1993 and Treasurer and Secretary from 1987 to 1991.

   (f)(5)  Involvement in certain legal proceedings.
           None.





                                     III-12


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION


     (A)  SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLES.  The following tables set forth 
information concerning the Chief Executive Officer and the four most highly 
compensated executive officers for each of the operating affiliates (ALABAMA,
GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH), serving as of December 31, 1993 whose
total annual salary and bonus exceeded $100,000.  No information is provided 
for any person for any year in which such person did not serve as an executive 
officer of the operating affiliate.  The number of SOUTHERN common shares do 
not reflect the stock distribution resulting from the two-for-one common stock 
split approved by SOUTHERN's board of directors in January, 1994.

KEY TERMS used in this Item will have the following meanings:-

AME...........   ABOVE-MARKET EARNINGS ON DEFERRED COMPENSATION
ESP...........   EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN        
ESOP..........   EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN
SBP...........   SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT PLAN    
VBP...........   VEHICLE BUYOUT PROGRAM       
                            

                                    ALABAMA

                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE







                                     III-13

                                    ALABAMA
                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
                                  (CONTINUED)





(1)  Tax reimbursement by ALABAMA and certain personal benefits, including
membership fee of $28,402 for Mr. Jones in 1992.  In accordance with the 
transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is omitted. 
(2)  Payouts made in 1992, 1993 and 1994 for the four-year performance periods
ending December 31, 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively.    
(3)  ALABAMA contributions to the ESP, ESOP, non-pension related accruals under
the SBP (ERISA excess plan under which accruals are made to offset Internal
Revenue Code imposed limitations under the Employee Savings and Stock Ownership
Plans), and payments under a VBP for the following:-
Name                      ESP      ESOP       SBP        VBP
- ----                      ---      ----       ---        ---
E. B. Harris            $6,746    $1,709    $12,933    $18,000
T. J. Bowden             8,369     1,709      3,193     18,000
B. H. Farris             7,193     1,499        726     18,000
T. H. Jones              6,908     1,331        754      5,100
W. B. Hutchins, III      6,746     1,400        671     18,000
In accordance with the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is
omitted.
(4)  Effective January 31, 1994, Mr. Bowden resigned to become president of
GULF.


                                     III-14


                                    GEORGIA
                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE





(1)  Due to the pay schedules at GEORGIA, 1992 salary reflects one additional 
pay period compared with 1991.  
(2)  Tax reimbursement by GEORGIA on certain personal benefits.  In accordance 
with the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is omitted.  
(3)  Payouts made in 1992, 1993 and 1994 for the four-year performance periods 
ending December 31, 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively.  
(4)  GEORGIA contributions to the ESP, ESOP, non-pension related accruals 
under the SBP (ERISA excess plan under which accruals are made to offset 
Internal Revenue Code imposed limitations under the Employee Savings and Stock 
Ownership Plans) and payments under a VBP for the following:-
Name                 ESP            ESOP              SBP            VBP
- ----                 ---            ----              ---            ---
A. W. Dahlberg      $6,746         $1,709           $18,092        $18,000
D. H. Evans          8,592          1,709             1,218         18,000
W. Y. Jobe           7,667          1,709             1,882         18,000
G. R. Hodges         7,349          1,620             3,660         18,000
K. E. Adams          7,204          1,634             1,462         18,000
In accordance with the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is
omitted.
(5)  Effective December 31, 1993, Mr. Dahlberg resigned to become president of
SOUTHERN.

                                     III-15

                                      GULF
                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE





(1)  Tax reimbursement by GULF on certain personal benefits.  In accordance with
the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is omitted.  
(2)  Payouts made in 1992, 1993 and 1994 for the four-year performance periods 
ending December 31, 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively.  
(3)  GULF contributions to the ESP, ESOP, non-pension related accruals under 
the SBP (ERISA excess plan under which accruals are made to offset Internal 
Revenue Code imposed limitations under the Employee Savings and Stock 
Ownership Plans) and payments under a VBP for the following:-
Name                    ESP       ESOP         SBP         VBP
- ----                    ---       ----         ---         ---
D. L. McCrary         $9,300     $1,709      $6,057     $ 2,788
G. E. Holland, Jr.     4,652          -           -      16,363
E. B. Parsons, Jr      6,948      1,709         410      16,363
A. E. Scarbrough       6,746      1,338         282      16,363
J. E. Hodges, Jr.      6,651      1,313           -      16,363
In accordance with the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is
omitted.
(4)  Employee and executive officer of GULF since April 25, 1992.  Not eligible
to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan until January 1, 1993. 
(5)  "All Other Compensation" previously reported as $4,149 for Mr. Holland
in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992, should have been $0 since
Mr. Holland was not yet eligible to participate in ESP and ESOP.


                                    III-16


                                  MISSISSIPPI
                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE





(1)  Tax reimbursement by MISSISSIPPI on certain personal benefits.  In
accordance with the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is 
omitted.
(2)  Payouts made in 1992, 1993 and 1994 for the four-year performance periods
ending December 31, 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively.
(3)  MISSISSIPPI contributions to the ESP, ESOP, non-pension related accruals
under the SBP (ERISA excess plan under which accruals are made to offset
Internal Revenue Code imposed limitations under the Employee Savings and Stock
Ownership Plans) and payments under a VBP for the following:-
Name                       ESP             ESOP             SBP         VBP
- ----                       ---             ----             ---         ---
David M. Ratcliffe       $7,895           $1,709          $2,774      $5,509
R. G. Dawson              6,746            1,252               -       7,045
H. E. Blakeslee           6,843            1,355               -       7,452
D. E. Mason               6,671            1,286               -       7,452
T. A. Fanning             5,520            1,019               -       8,116
In accordance with the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is 
omitted.
(4)  Effective March 1, 1994, Mr. Dawson resigned to become a vice president of
SEI.
(5)  Benefits under MISSISSIPPI's VBP for 1992 in the amounts of $13,169 and
$12,425 to Messrs. Dawson and Fanning, respectively, previously reported in the
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992, under the "Other Annual
Compensation" column have been moved to the "All Other Compensation" column.

                                     III-17


                                    SAVANNAH
                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE




(1)  Tax reimbursement by SAVANNAH on certain personal benefits.  In accordance
with the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is omitted.
(2)  Payouts made in 1992, 1993 and 1994 for the four-year performance periods
ending December 31, 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively.
(3)  SAVANNAH contributions to the ESP, under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code, ESOP, AME and payments under a VBP for the following:-
Name                  ESP            ESOP             AME           VBP
- ----                  ---            ----             ---           ---
A. M. Gignilliat     $6,746         $3,092          $7,479        $14,195
E. O. Veale           6,163          2,359           5,702              -
L. M. Porter          4,943          1,774             658         14,195
W. M. Greer           5,045          1,764             877         14,195
J. L. Rayburn         2,284          1,650           1,911         14,195
In accordance with the transition rules of the SEC, information for 1991 is
omitted.
(4)  Retired effective December 31, 1993.
(5)  Not eligible for Long-term Incentive Payout until January 1, 1994.
(6)  Resigned effective December 31, 1993.

                                     III-18




                          STOCK OPTION GRANTS IN 1993

      (B)    STOCK OPTION GRANTS.   The following table sets forth all stock
option grants to the named executive officers of each operating subsidiary
during the year ending December 31, 1993.  The number of SOUTHERN common shares
shown and the per share exercise price and market price do not reflect the
stock distribution resulting from the two-for-one common stock split approved
by SOUTHERN's board of directors in January, 1994.



See next page for footnotes.





                                     III-19




                                                STOCK OPTION GRANTS IN 1993






(1) Grants were made on July 19, 1993, and vest 25% per year on the anniversary
date of the grant.  Grants fully vest upon termination incident to death,
disability, or retirement.  The exercise price is the average of the high and
low fair market value of SOUTHERN's common stock on the date granted.  In
accordance with the terms of the Executive Stock Plan, Mr. Jones' unexercised
options expire on April 1, 1998, three years after his normal retirement date;
Mr. McCrary's unexercised options expire on May 1, 1997, three years after his
normal retirement date; and Mr. Gignilliat's unexercised options expire on
September 3, 2000, three years after his normal retirement date.
(2) A total of 179,746 stock options were granted in 1993 to key executives
participating in SOUTHERN's Executive Stock Plan.
(3) Based on the Black-Scholes option valuation model.  The actual value, if 
any, an executive officer may realize ultimately depends on the market value of
SOUTHERN's common stock at a future date.  This valuation is provided pursuant
to SEC disclosure rules and there is no assurance that the value realized will 
be at or near the value estimated by the Black-Scholes model.  Assumptions used
to calculate this value:  price volatility - 12.45%; risk-free rate of return - 
5.81%; dividend yield - 5.37%; and time to exercise - ten years.


                                    III-20




      AGGREGATED STOCK OPTION EXERCISES IN 1993 AND YEAR-END OPTION VALUES


    (C)   AGGREGATED STOCK OPTION EXERCISES.  The following table sets forth
information concerning options exercised during the year ending December 31,
1993, by the named executive officers and the value of unexercised options held
by them as of December 31, 1993.  The number of SOUTHERN common shares shown
and the per share exercise price and market price do not reflect the stock
distribution resulting from the two-for-one common stock split approved by
SOUTHERN's board of directors in January, 1994.




See next page for footnotes.





                                     III-21




     AGGREGATED STOCK OPTION EXERCISES IN 1993 AND YEAR-END OPTION VALUES






(1) This represents the excess of the fair market value of SOUTHERN's common
stock of $44.125 per share, as of December 31, 1993, above the exercise price
of the options.  One column reports the "value" of options that are vested and
therefore could be exercised; the other "value" of options that are not vested
and therefore could not be exercised as of December 31, 1993.
(2) The "Value Realized" is ordinary income, before taxes, and represents the
amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the shares at the time
of exercise over the exercise price.

                                     III-22




                   LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS - AWARDS IN 1993

     (D)   LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS.  The following table sets forth the
long-term incentive plan awards made to the named executive officers for the
performance period January 1, 1993 through December 31, 1996.








See next page for footnotes.





                                     III-23




                   LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS - AWARDS IN 1993









                                     III-24




                               PENSION PLAN TABLE

     (e)(1) The following table sets forth the estimated combined annual pension
benefits under the pension and supplemental defined benefit plans in effect
during 1993 for ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF and MISSISSIPPI.  Employee compensation
covered by the pension and supplemental benefit plans for pension purposes is
limited to the average of the highest three of the final 10 years' base salary
and wages (reported under column titled "Salary" in the Summary Compensation
Tables on pages III-13 through III-18).

        The amounts shown in the table were calculated according to the final 
average pay formula and are based on a single life annuity without reduction
for joint and survivor annuities (although married employees are required to
have their pension benefits paid in one of various joint and survivor annuity
forms, unless the employee elects otherwise with the spouse's consent) or
computation of the Social Security offset which would apply in most cases. 
This offset amounts to one-half of the estimated Social Security benefit
(primary insurance amount) in excess of $3,000 per year times the number of
years of accredited service, divided by the total possible years of accredited
service to normal retirement age.




       As of December 31, 1993, the applicable compensation levels and years of
accredited service are presented in the following tables:








                                     III-25






       SAVANNAH has in effect a qualified, trusteed, noncontributory, defined
benefit pension plan which provides pension benefits to employees upon
retirement at the normal retirement age after designated periods of accredited
service and at a specified compensation level.  The plan provides pension
benefits under a formula which includes each participant's years of service
with the Southern system and average annual earnings of the highest three of
the final ten years of service with the Southern system preceding retirement.
Plan benefits are reduced by a portion of the benefits participants are
entitled to receive under Social Security.  The plan provides for reduced early
retirement benefits at age 55 and a pension for the surviving spouse equal to
one-half of the deceased retiree's pension.

       The following table sets forth the estimated annual pension benefits
under the pension plan in effect during 1993 which are payable by SAVANNAH to
employees upon retirement at the normal retirement age after designated periods
of accredited service and at a specified compensation level.






(1)The number of accredited years of service includes ten years credited to Mr. 
Holland pursuant to a supplemental pension agreement.

                                     III-26







       As of December 31, 1993, the applicable compensation levels and years of
accredited service is presented in the following table:

                                                                

          (e)(2)      DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN; SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE
RETIREMENT PLAN.

     SAVANNAH has in effect a voluntary deferred compensation plan for certain
executive employees pursuant to which such employees may defer a portion of
their respective annual salaries.  In addition, SAVANNAH has a supplemental
executive retirement plan for certain of its executive employees which became
effective January 1, 1984.  The deferred compensation plan is designed to
provide supplemental retirement or survivor benefit payments.  The supplemental
executive retirement plan is also designed to provide retiring executives of
SAVANNAH with a supplemental retirement benefit, which, in conjunction with
social security and benefits under SAVANNAH's qualified pension plan, will
equal 70 percent of the highest three of the final ten years average annual
compensation (including deferrals under the deferred compensation plan).  Both
of these plans are unfunded and the liability is payable from general funds of
SAVANNAH.  The deferred compensation plan became effective December 1, 1983,
and all of SAVANNAH's executive officers are participating in the plan.  In
addition, all executives are participating in the supplemental executive
retirement plan.

       In order to provide for its liabilities under the deferred compensation
plan and the supplemental executive retirement plan, SAVANNAH has purchased
life insurance on participating executive employees in actuarially determined
amounts which, based upon assumptions as to mortality experience, policy
dividends, tax effects, and other factors which, if realized, along with
compensation deferred by employees and the death benefits payable to






(1) The plan benefits are subject to the maximum benefit limitations set forth
in Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code.

                                     III-27





SAVANNAH, are expected to cover all such insurance premium payments, and all
benefit payments to participants, plus a factor for the cost of funds of
SAVANNAH.

(f)    COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS.


       (1) Standard Arrangements.  The following table presents compensation
paid to the directors, during 1993 for service as a member of the board of
directors and any board committee(s), except that employee directors received
no fees or compensation for service as a member of the board of directors or
any board committee.  All or a portion of these fees may be deferred until
membership on the board is terminated.




         ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH also provide
retirement benefits to non-employee directors who are credited with a minimum
of 60 months of service on the board of directors of one or more system
companies, under the Outside Directors Pension Plan.  Eligible directors are
entitled to benefits under the Plan upon retirement from the board on the
retirement date designated in the respective companies by-laws. The annual
benefit payable ranges from 75 to 100 percent of the annual retainer fee in
effect on the date of retirement, based upon length of service.  Payments
continue for the greater of the lifetime of the participant or 10 years.

         (2) Other Arrangements.  No director received other compensation for
services as a director during the year ending December 31, 1993 in addition to
or in lieu of that specified by the standard arrangements specified above.








(1) Committee Chairmen receive an additional $500 per year fee. 
(2) Established for period September 15, 1993 through May 31, 1994.    
(3) Chairman of Executive Committee receives an additional $3,000 per month fee.

                                     III-28






(g)      EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS AND TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AND CHANGE IN
         CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS.

         None.


(h)      REPORT ON REPRICING OF OPTIONS.

         None.

(i)      ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
         INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION IN COMPENSATION DECISION.


         ALABAMA

                Elmer B. Harris serves on the Compensation Committee of AmSouth
         Bancorporation.  John W. Woods, a director of ALABAMA is an executive
         officer of AmSouth Bancorporation.

         GULF

                Messrs. Paul J. DeNicola and Douglas L. McCrary are ex officio
         members of its Compensation Committee.





                                     III-29





ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         (A)    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS.

     SOUTHERN is the beneficial owner of 100% of the outstanding common
stock of registrants ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH.



         (B)    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT.  The following table shows
the number of shares of SOUTHERN common stock and operating subsidiary
preferred stock owned by the directors, nominees and executive officers as of
December 31, 1993.  It is based on information furnished by the directors,
nominees and executive officers.  The shares owned by all directors, nominees
and executive officers as a group constitute less than one percent of the total
number of shares of the respective classes outstanding on December 31, 1993.
The number of SOUTHERN common shares shown do not reflect the stock
distribution resulting from the two-for-one common stock split approved by
SOUTHERN'S board of directors in January, 1994.




                                     III-30











                                     III-31











                                     III-32









                                     III-33











(1)  As used in this table, "beneficial ownership" means the sole or shared 
power to vote, or to direct the voting of, a security and/or investment power
with respect to a security (i.e., the power to dispose of, or to direct the 
disposition of, a security).
(2)  The shares  shown include shares  of common stock  of which certain
directors and executive  officers have the  right to acquire beneficial
ownership within 60  days pursuant to the  Executive Stock Plan, as follows:
Mr. Addison, 86,357  shares; Mr. Blakeslee, 660 shares; Mr. Bowden, 5,763
shares;  Mr. Dahlberg, 4,278 shares; Mr. Farris, 863 shares; Mr. Gignilliat,
8,556 shares; Mr. Guthrie 15,720 shares;  Mr. Harris,  14,215 shares; Mr.
Haubein, 835 shares; Mr. Hodges, 5,429 shares; Mr. Holland, 698 shares; Mr.
Hutchins, 706 shares; Mr. Jones, 848 shares; Mr. Klappa,  671 shares, Mr. C. D.
McCrary, 691 shares;  Mr. D. L. McCrary, 9,668 shares; and  Mr.  Ratcliffe,
5,643 shares.  Also  included are shares  of SOUTHERN common  stock held by
the spouses of the  following directors: Mr.  Addison, 670 shares; Mr.
Copenhaver, 350 shares; Mr. Harris, 155 shares; Mr. Parker, 22 shares; and Dr.
Shatto, 5,067 shares.


                                     III-34






       (C)  CHANGES IN CONTROL.  The operating affiliates know of no
arrangements which may at a subsequent date result in any change in control.


       GEORGIA'S Mr. Russell failed to file on a timely basis a single report
disclosing one transaction on Form 4 as required by Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

       MISSISSIPPI'S Messrs. McLean, Jr., Hurt and Seal, Jr. each failed to
file on a timely basis a single report disclosing one transaction on Form 4 as
required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

       SAVANNAH'S Mr. Gnann failed to file on a timely basis a single report
disclosing one transaction on Form 4 as required by Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

       MR. DENICOLA, a director of GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH, failed to
file on a timely basis a single report, disclosing one transaction on Form 4 as
required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.





                                     III-35





ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

                                    ALABAMA

   (a)    Transactions with management and others.

   During 1993, ALABAMA, in the ordinary course of business, paid premiums
amounting to approximately $400,000 for various types of insurance policies
purchased from Protective Life Insurance Company, a subsidiary of Protective
Life Corporation, a company in which Mr. William J. Rushton, III, a director of
ALABAMA, owns an interest and of which he serves as Chairman.

   The firm of Inzer, Stivender, Haney & Johnson, P.A., performed certain legal
services for ALABAMA during 1993.  Mr. James C.  Inzer, Jr., partner in this
firm, is also a director of ALABAMA.

   ALABAMA purchased automobiles and parts in the amount of approximately
$200,000 from companies in which Mr. Blount, a director of ALABAMA, owns 85%
interests.

   ALABAMA purchased electrical supplies in the amount of approximately
$200,000 from L & K Electric Supply Company, Ltd. during 1993.  Mr. Willie,
director of ALABAMA and SOUTHERN, owns an interest in and serves as president
of this firm.

   ALABAMA believes that these transactions have been on terms representing
competitive market prices that are no less favorable than those available from
others.

   (b)    Certain business relationships.
          None.

   (c)    Indebtedness of management.
          None.

   (d)    Transactions with promoters.
          None.

                                    GEORGIA

   (a)    Transactions with management and others.

   In 1993, GEORGIA was indebted in a maximum amount of $105 million to
Wachovia Bank and its affiliates, of which G. Joseph Prendergast serves as
President and Chief Executive Officer of Wachovia Corporation of Georgia and
Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A.

   In 1993, GEORGIA was indebted in a maximum amount of $285 million to
NationsBank and its affiliates of which Mr. James R. Lientz, Jr. serves as
President of NationsBank of Georgia.

   (b)    Certain business relationships.
          None.

   (c)    Indebtedness of management.
          None.

   (d)    Transactions with promoters.
          None.

                                      GULF

   (a)    Transactions with management and others.

   The firm of Beggs & Lane, P.A. serves as local counsel for GULF and received
from GULF approximately $800,000 for services rendered.  Mr. G. Edison Holland,
Jr. is a partner in the firm and also serves as Vice President and Corporate
Counsel of GULF.

   (b)    Certain business relationships.
          None.

   (c)    Indebtedness of management.
          None.

   (d)    Transactions with promoters.
          None.

                                  MISSISSIPPI

   (a)    Certain business relationships.

   During 1993, MISSISSIPPI was indebted in a maximum amount of $12.4 million
to Hancock Bank, of which Leo W. Seal, Jr. serves as Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer.

   (b)    Certain business relationships.
          None.

   (c)    Indebtedness of management.
          None.

                                    III-36



   (d)    Transactions with promoters.
          None.

                                    SAVANNAH

   (a)    Transactions with management and others.

   Mr. Tenenbaum is a Director of First Union national Bank of Georgia, and Mr.
Foster is President of NationsBank of Georgia, N.A., in Savannah.  During 1993,
these banks furnished a number of regular banking services in the ordinary
course of business to SAVANNAH.  SAVANNAH intends to maintain normal banking
relations with all of the aforesaid banks in the future.

   (b)    Certain business relationships.

   (c)    Indebtedness of management.
          None.

   (d)    Transactions with promoters.
          None.





                                    III-37

                                   PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

   (a)    The following documents are filed as a part of this report on this
          Form 10-K:

          (1)    Financial Statements:

                 Reports of Independent Public Accountants on the financial
                 statements for SOUTHERN and Subsidiary Companies, ALABAMA,
                 GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH are listed under Item
                 8 herein.

                 The financial statements filed as a part of this report for
                 SOUTHERN and Subsidiary Companies, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                 MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH are listed under Item 8 herein.

          (2)    Financial Statement Schedules:

                 Reports of Independent Public Accountants as to Schedules for
                 SOUTHERN and Subsidiary Companies, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                 MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH are included herein on pages IV-12
                 through IV-17.

                 Financial Statement Schedules for SOUTHERN and Subsidiary 
                 Companies, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SAVANNAH 
                 are listed in the Index to the Financial Statement Schedules 
                 at page S-1.

          (3)    Exhibits:

                 Exhibits for SOUTHERN, ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and
                 SAVANNAH are listed in the Exhibit Index at page E-1.

   (b)    Reports on Form 8-K:  During the fourth quarter of 1993 the
          registrants filed Current Reports on Form 8-K as follows:

          ALABAMA filed Forms 8-K dated October 27, 1993, and November 16,
          1993, to facilitate security sales.

          GEORGIA filed a Form 8-K dated October 20, 1993, to facilitate a
          security sale.

          GULF filed a Form 8-K dated November 3, 1993, to facilitate a
          security sale.

          SAVANNAH filed a Form 8-K dated November 9, 1993, to facilitate a
          security sale.





                                     IV-1

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    THE SOUTHERN COMPANY

    By  Edward L. Addison, Chairman


    By  Wayne Boston
       (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having
reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    Edward L. Addison
    Chairman of the Board
    (Principal Executive Officer)

    W. L. Westbrook
    Financial Vice President
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)


                 Directors:


 W. P. Copenhaver       John M. McIntosh.
 A. W. Dahlberg         Earl D. McLean, Jr.
 Paul J. DeNicola       William A. Parker
 Jack Edwards           William J. Rushton, III
 H. Allen Franklin      Gloria M. Shatto
 L. G. Hardman, III     Herbert Stockham
 Elmer B. Harris        Louis J. Willie


    By  Wayne Boston
       (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

    By  Elmer B. Harris, President

    By  Wayne Boston
       (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having
reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    Elmer B. Harris
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
    (Principal Executive Officer)

    Charles D. McCrary
    Senior Vice President
    (Principal Financial Officer)

    David L. Whitson
    Vice President and Comptroller
    (Principal Accounting Officer)


                 Directors:

 Edward L. Addison           William V. Muse
 Whit Armstrong              John T. Porter
 Philip E. Austin            Gerald H. Powell
 Margaret A. Carpenter       Robert D. Powers
 Peter V. Gregerson, Sr.     John W. Rouse
 Bill M. Guthrie             James H. Sanford
 Crawford T. Johnson, III    John Cox Webb, IV
 Carl E. Jones, Jr.          Louis J. Willie
 Wallace D. Malone, Jr.      John W. Woods

    By  Wayne Boston
      (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

                                     IV-2    


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

    By  H. Allen Franklin, President


    By  Wayne Boston
       (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having
reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    H. Allen Franklin
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
    (Principal Executive Officer)

    Warren Y. Jobe
    Executive Vice President,
    Treasurer, Chief Financial Officer and Director
    (Principal Financial Officer)

    C. B. Harreld
    Vice President and Comptroller
    (Principal Accounting Officer)


                      Directors:
 Edward L. Addison              G. Joseph Prendergast
 Bennett A. Brown               Herman J. Russell
 William P. Copenhaver          Gloria M. Shatto
 A. W. Dahlberg                 Robert Strickland
 William A. Fickling, Jr.       William Jerry Vereen
 L. G. Hardman, III             Thomas R. Williams
 James R. Lientz, Jr.

    By  Wayne Boston
    (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)
    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    GULF POWER COMPANY

    By  D. L. McCrary, Chairman of the Board


    By  Wayne Boston
       (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having
reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    D. L. McCrary
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
    (Principal Executive Officer)

    A. E. Scarbrough
    Vice President - Finance
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

       Directors:
       Reed Bell
       Travis J. Bowden
       Paul J. DeNicola
       Fred C. Donovan
       W. D. Hull, Jr.
       C. W. Ruckel
       J. K. Tannehill


    By  Wayne Boston
    (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25,1994





                                     IV-3



Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

    By  David M. Ratcliffe, President


    By  Wayne Boston
    (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having
reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    David M. Ratcliffe
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
    (Principal Executive Officer)

    Thomas A. Fanning
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)


       Directors:
       Paul J. DeNicola
       Edwin E. Downer
       Robert S. Gaddis
       Walter H. Hurt, III
       Aubrey K. Lucas
       Earl D. McLean, Jr.
       Gerald J. St. Pe'
       Leo W. Seal, Jr.
       N. Eugene Warr


    By  Wayne Boston
    (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  The signature of the
undersigned company shall be deemed to relate only to matters having reference
to such company and any subsidiaries thereof.

    SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

    By  Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr., President


    By  Wayne Boston
      (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.  The signature of
each of the undersigned shall be deemed to relate only to matters having
reference to the above-named company and any subsidiaries thereof.

     Arthur M. Gignilliat, Jr.
     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
     (Principal Executive Officer)

     Kirby R. Willis
     Vice President, Treasurer and
     Chief Financial Officer
     (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)


       Directors:
       Helen Q. Artley
       Paul J. DeNicola
       Brian R. Foster
       Walter D. Gnann
       John M. McIntosh
       Robert B. Miller, III
       James M. Piette
       Arnold M. Tenenbaum
       Frederick F. Williams, Jr.


    By  Wayne Boston
    (Wayne Boston, Attorney-in-fact)

    Date:  March 25, 1994





                                     IV-4



EXHIBIT 21.     SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANTS.


   (1)     Owned by Alabama Power Company.
   (2)     Owned by Georgia Power Company.
   (3)     Owned by SEI Holdings, Inc.
   (4)     94% owned jointly by Asociados de Electricidad, S. A. (14%) and SEI
           Holdings, Inc. (80%)
   (5)     59% owned by SEI y Asociados de Argentina, S. A.
   (6)     Owned by SEI Holdings III, Inc.
   (7)     36% owned by SEI Chile, S. A.
   (8)     Owned by SEI Holdings IV, Inc.
   (9)     Owned jointly by Inversores de Electricidad, S. A. (15%) and SEI
           Bahamas Argentina I, Inc. (85%)
   (10)    Owned by Southern Electric Bahamas Holdings, Ltd.
   (11)    50% owned by Southern Electric Bahamas, Ltd.
   (12)    Owned equally by Alabama Power Company and Georgia Power Company.
   (13)    Owned by Southern Electric International, Inc.
   (14)    Owned by Southern Electric Wholesale Generators, Inc.





                                      IV-5

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.


                                                                   Exhibit 23(a)





                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





     As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 16, 1994 on the financial statements of The
Southern Company and its subsidiaries and the related financial statement
schedules, included in this Form 10-K, into The Southern Company's previously
filed Registration Statement File Nos. 2-78617, 33-3546, 33-23152, 33-30171,
33-23153 and 33-51433.

                                       /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.



Atlanta, Georgia
March 25, 1994





                                      IV-6

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



                                                                   Exhibit 23(b)





                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





     As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 16, 1994 on the financial statements of Alabama
Power Company and the related financial statement schedules, included in this
Form 10-K, into Alabama Power Company's previously filed Registration Statement
File No. 33-49653.

                                        /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.



Birmingham, Alabama
March 25, 1994





                                      IV-7

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



                                                                   Exhibit 23(c)





                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





     As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 16, 1994 on the financial statements of Georgia
Power Company and the related financial statement schedules, included in this
Form 10-K, into Georgia Power Company's previously filed Registration Statement
File No. 33-49661.



                          /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.
                                        



Atlanta, Georgia
March 25, 1994





                                      IV-8

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



                                                                   Exhibit 23(d)





                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





     As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 16, 1994 on the financial statements of Gulf
Power Company and the related financial statement schedules, included in this
Form 10-K, into Gulf Power Company's previously filed Registration Statement
File No. 33-50165.


                          /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.




Atlanta, Georgia
March 25, 1994





                                      IV-9

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



                                                                   Exhibit 23(e)





                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





    As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 16, 1994 on the financial statements of
Mississippi Power Company and the related financial statement schedules,
included in this Form 10-K, into Mississippi Power Company's previously filed
Registration Statement File Nos. 33-49320 and 33-49649.


                                 /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.


Atlanta, Georgia
March 25, 1994





                                     IV-10

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



                                                                   Exhibit 23(f)





                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS





     As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation
of our reports dated February 16, 1994 on the financial statements of Savannah
Electric and Power Company and the related financial statement schedules,
included in this Form 10-K, into Savannah Electric and Power Company's
previously filed Registration Statement File Nos. 33-45757 and 33-52509.


                                        /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.


Atlanta, Georgia
March 25, 1994





                                     IV-11

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To The Southern Company:

   We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements of The Southern Company and its
subsidiaries included in this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon
dated February 16, 1994.  Our report on the consolidated financial statements
includes an explanatory paragraph which states that an uncertainty exists with
respect to the actions of the regulators regarding recoverability of the
investment in the Rocky Mountain pumped storage hydroelectric project, as
discussed in Note 4 to The Southern Company's consolidated financial
statements.  Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on
those statements taken as a whole.  The schedules listed under Item 14(a)(2)
herein as it relates to The Southern Company and its subsidiaries (pages S-2
and S-3, S-11 through S-14, S-35 through S-37, S-53, and S-59) are the
responsibility of The Southern Company's management and are presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and
are not part of the basic consolidated financial statements.  These schedules
have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the
basic consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in
all material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.


                                   /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.


Atlanta, Georgia
February 16, 1994





                                     IV-12

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Alabama Power Company:

   We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Alabama Power Company included in this Form 10-K,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 16, 1994.  Our audits were
made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a
whole.  The schedules listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to
Alabama Power Company (pages S-4, S-15 through S-18, S-38 through S-40, S-54,
and S-60) are the responsibility of Alabama Power Company's management and are
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and are not part of the basic financial statements.  These
schedules have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits
of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.


Birmingham, Alabama
February 16, 1994





                                     IV-13

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Georgia Power Company:

     We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Georgia Power Company included in this Form 10-K,
and have issued our report thereon dated February 16, 1994.  Our report on the
financial statements includes an explanatory paragraph which states that an
uncertainty exists with respect to the actions of the regulators regarding the
recoverability of Georgia Power Company's investment in the Rocky Mountain
pumped storage hydroelectric project, as discussed in Note 4 to Georgia Power
Company's financial statements.  Our audits were made for the purpose of
forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.  The schedules listed
under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to Georgia Power Company (pages S-5,
S-19 through S-22, S-41 through S-43, S-55, and S-61) are the responsibility
of Georgia Power Company's management and are presented for purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not part
of the basic financial statements.  These schedules have been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements
and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.


                                             /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.


Atlanta, Georgia
February 16, 1994





                                     IV-14

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Gulf Power Company:

   We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Gulf Power Company included in this Form 10-K, and
have issued our report thereon dated February 16, 1994.  Our audits were made
for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.
The schedules listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to Gulf Power
Company (pages S-6, S-23 through S-26, S-44 through S-46, S-56, and S-62) are
the responsibility of Gulf Power Company's management and are presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and
are not part of the basic financial statements.  These schedules have been
subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic
financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material respects
the financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole.


                                      /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.


Atlanta, Georgia
February 16, 1994





                                     IV-15

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Mississippi Power Company:

   We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Mississippi Power Company included in this Form
10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated February 16, 1994.  Our audits
were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a
whole.  The schedules listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it relates to
Mississippi Power Company (pages S-7 and S-8, S-27 through S-30, S-47 through
S-49, S-57, and S-63) are the responsibility of Mississippi Power Company's
management and are presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and are not part of the basic financial statements.
These schedules have been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the
audits of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in
all material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                           /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.


Atlanta, Georgia
February 16, 1994





                                     IV-16

                            ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS AS TO SCHEDULES


To Savannah Electric and Power Company:

   We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements of Savannah Electric and Power Company included in
this Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated February 16, 1994.
Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements
taken as a whole.  The schedules listed under Item 14(a)(2) herein as it
relates to Savannah Electric and Power Company (pages S-9 and S-10, S-31
through S-34, S-50 through S-52, S-58, and S-64) are the responsibility of
Savannah Electric and Power Company's management and are presented for purposes
of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and are not
part of the basic financial statements.  These schedules have been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements
and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.

                                    /s/ Arthur Andersen & Co.



Atlanta, Georgia
February 16, 1994



                                     IV-17






                     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



   Schedules I through XIV not listed above are omitted as not applicable or
not required.  Columns omitted from schedules filed have been omitted because
the information is not applicable or not required.





                                      S-1











                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
               SCHEDULE V - UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)






See Summary of Transactions and Notes on Page S-3


                                      S-2







                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
               SCHEDULE V - UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




Total additions and total retirements for 1991, 1992 and 1993, as summarized
below, were each less than 10% of the total balances as of the respective
year-ends.  Retirements include non-depreciable plant retirements and
unamortized portions of retirements to acquisition adjustments.  There were  no
additions to individual accounts in excess of two percent of total assets
other than transfers from Construction Work in Progress.

                                                                 



(NOTE 1)  OTHER CHANGES INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

                                                                    
                                      S-3






                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
               SCHEDULE V -- UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)






Total additions and total retirements for 1991, 1992 and 1993, as summarized
below, were each less than 10% of the total balances as of the respective
year-ends.  Retirements below include non-depreciable plant retirements.  There
were no additions to individual accounts in excess of two percent of total
assets other than transfers from Construction Work in Progress.  Other changes
include a reduction to utility plant of $61,960,000 for the partial sale of
Miller Steam Plant in 1992.



                                      S-4







                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
               SCHEDULE V - UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)






Total additions and total retirements for 1991, 1992 and 1993, as summarized
below, were each less than 10% of the total balances as of the respective
year-ends.  Retirements include non-depreciable plant retirements and
unamortized portions of Plant Scherer acquisition adjustment retired for sales
in 1991 and 1993.  There were no additions to individual accounts in excess
of two percent of total assets other than transfers from Construction Work in
Progress.  Other changes for 1993, include an increase to plant of $46,473,000
for the taxes applicable to capitalized AFUDC debt.



                                     S-5






                               GULF POWER COMPANY
               SCHEDULE V - UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)






Total additions and total retirements for 1991, 1992 and 1993, as summarized
below, were each less than 10% of the total  balances as of the respective
year-ends.  There were no additions to individual accounts in excess of two
percent of total assets other than transfers from Construction Work in
Progress.



                                      S-6






                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY
               SCHEDULE V - UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)







Total additions and total retirements for 1991 and 1992, as summarized below,
were each less than 10% of the total balances as of the respective year-ends.
Additions for 1993 were greater than 10% of the year-end balance and,
consequently, 1993 is reported in full detail on page S-8.  There were no
additions to individual accounts in excess of two percent of total assets
other than transfers from Construction Work in Progress.



                                      S-7






                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY
               SCHEDULE V - UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,1993
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)





                                      S-8






                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
               SCHEDULE V - UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)






Total additions and total retirements for 1991 and 1992, as summarized below,
were each less than 10% of the total balances as of the respective year-ends.
Additions for 1993 were greater than 10% of the year-end balance and,
consequently, 1993 is reported in full detail on page S-10.  There were no
additions to individual accounts in excess of two percent of total assets
other than transfers from Construction Work in Progress.




                                      S-9






                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
               SCHEDULE V - UTILITY PLANT, INCLUDING INTANGIBLES
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)







                                     S-10







                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)







See Notes on Page S-14


                                     S-11






                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                                                       


See Notes on Page S-14


                                     S-12






                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                                                      


See Notes on Page S-14

                                     S-13






                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 NOTES TO SCHEDULE VI -ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
             FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                     S-14






                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                                                   


See Notes on Page S-18

                                     S-15






                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                                                                       


See Notes on Page S-18

                                     S-16






                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI --ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                                                                     
                                                                             
                                                                             
See Notes on Page S-18                                              


                                     S-17






                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY
 NOTES TO SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
             FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)


                                                                     



                                     S-18






                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                                                    
                                                                            
                                                                              
See Notes on Page S-22

                                     S-19






                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                                                                    
                                                                            



See Notes on Page S-22                                                      
                                                                              
                                                                              
                                     S-20






                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)





                                                                              
                                                                              
See Notes on Page S-22                                                        
                                     S-21                                     
                                                                              
                   
                                                                              






                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY
 NOTES TO SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
             FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                     S-22






                               GULF POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                                                   
                                                                           
See Notes on Page S-26                                                     
                                                                           

                                     S-23







                               GULF POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                                                                   


See Notes on Page S-26
                                     S-24






                               GULF POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                                                                      


See Notes on Page S-26

                                     S-25



                               GULF POWER COMPANY
 NOTES TO SCHEDULE VI -ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
             FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)


 
                                     S-26






                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI --ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                                                      


See Notes on Page S-30

                                     S-27






                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI --ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                                                                       


See Notes on Page S-30

                                     S-28






                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI --ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                                                                       


See Notes on Page S-30


                                     S-29







                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY
   NOTES TO SCHEDULE VI -ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PL
             FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)


  

                                     S-30






                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI --ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)




                                                                       
                                                                      

See Notes on Page S-34

                                     S-31






                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)






See Notes on Page S-34

                                     S-32






                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
     SCHEDULE VI --  ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)



                                                


See Notes on Page S-34

                                     S-33






                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY
 NOTES TO SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED PROVISION FOR DEPRECIATION OF UTILITY PLANT
             FOR THE YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                        (STATED IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)


                                                                       


                                     S-34




                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)






- -------------------------
Notes:
    (1)    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible,
           less recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
    (2)    Insurance recoveries net of charges to reserve for purposes for 
           which reserve was created.  
    (3)    See Note 1 to SOUTHERN's financial statements under "Nuclear 
           Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further information.  
    (4)    Represents additional funding to reserve.  
    (5)    See Note 1 to SOUTHERN's financial statements under "Revenues and 
           Fuel Costs" in Item 8 herein for further information.


                                     S-35


                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)






- -----------------------------
Notes:
    (1)    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible,
           less recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
    (2)    See Note 1 to SOUTHERN's financial statements under "Depreciation 
           and Nuclear Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further 
           information.
    (3)    See Note 1 to SOUTHERN's financial statements under "Revenues and
           Fuel Costs" in Item 8 herein for further information.
    (4)    Capitalized.

                                     S-36

                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

         SCHEDULE VIII--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)





- ------------------
Notes:
    (1)    See Note 8 to SOUTHERN's financial statements in Item 8 herein for a
           description of the Gulf States settlement.  
    (2)    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, 
           less recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
    (3)    Insurance recoveries net of charges to reserve for purposes for 
           which reserve was created.  
    (4)    See Note 1 to SOUTHERN's financial statements under "Depreciation 
           and Nuclear Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further 
           information.





                                      S-37

                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)


                                                                


- ------------------
Notes:
    (1)    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible,
           less recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
    (2)    See Note 1 to ALABAMA's financial statements under "Depreciation 
           and Nuclear Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further 
           information.
    (3)    Represents additional funding to reserve.
    (4)    See Note 1 to ALABAMA's financial statements under "Revenues and
           Fuel Costs" in Item 8 herein for further information.





                                      S-38

                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)






- -----------------------------
Notes:
    (1)    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible,
           less recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
    (2)    See Note 1 to ALABAMA's financial statements under "Depreciation 
           and Nuclear Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further 
           information.
    (3)    See Note 1 to ALABAMA's financial statements under "Revenues and
           Fuel Costs" in Item 8 herein for further Information.





                                      S-39

                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)






- -----------------------
Notes:
   (1)   See Note 7 to the financial statements in Item 8 herein for a
         description of the Gulf States settlement.  The provision for
         uncollectible was reversed.
   (2)   Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
   (3)   See Note 1 to ALABAMA's financial statements under "Depreciation and 
         Nuclear Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further information.





                                      S-40

                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)






- --------------------
Notes:
   (1)   Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
   (2)   See Note 1 to GEORGIA's financial statements under "Nuclear 
         Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further information.  
   (3)   Represents additional funding to reserve.  
   (4)   See Note 1 to GEORGIA's financial statements under "Revenues and Fuel 
         Costs" in Item 8 herein for further information.





                                      S-41

                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)






- -----------------------
Notes:
   (1)   Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
   (2)   See Note 1 to GEORGIA's financial statements under "Nuclear 
         Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further information.
   (3)   See Note 1 to GEORGIA's financial statements under "Revenues and Fuel
         Costs" in Item 8 herein for further information.





                                      S-42

                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)




- ------------------
Note:
   (1)   See Note 3 to GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein for a
         description of the Gulf States settlement.  The provision for
         uncollectible accounts was reversed.
   (2)   Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.  
   (3)   See Note 1 to GEORGIA's financial statements under "Nuclear 
         Decommissioning" in Item 8 herein for further information.





                                      S-43

                               GULF POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)




- ---------------
Note:    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-44

                               GULF POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)



- --------------------
Note:    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-45

                               GULF POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)



- ------------------
Notes:
   (1)   See Note 7 to GULF's financial statements in Item 8 herein for a
         description of the Gulf States settlement.  The provision for 
         uncollectible was reversed.
   (2)   Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-46

                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)




- ---------------
Note:    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-47

                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)




- ------------------
Note:    Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-48

                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991

                        (Stated in thousands of Dollars)

                                                          


- -----------------
Notes:
   (1)   See Note 7 to MISSISSIPPI's financial statements in Item 8 herein for
         a description of the Gulf States settlement.  The provision for
         uncollectible was reversed.
   (2)   Represents write-off of accounts considered to be uncollectible, less
         recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-49

                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)





- --------------------------
Note:    Represents write-off of accounts receivable considered to be
         uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-50

                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY


         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1992

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)



- ----------------------
Note:    Represents write-off of accounts receivable considered to be
         uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-51

                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

         SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)




Note:    Represents write-off of accounts receivable considered to be
         uncollectible, less recoveries of amounts previously written off.





                                      S-52

                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                      SCHEDULE IX - SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

                        DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)





- ----------------------
Notes:
   (1)   At month-end.
   (2)   Average based on daily borrowings during period (averages and rates
         quoted on an actual day year basis).  
   (3)   This note payable is an obligation of SEI and does not include 
         borrowings from SOUTHERN.  
   (4)   See Note 5 to SOUTHERN's financial statements in Item 8 herein for 
         details regarding SOUTHERN's and its subsidiaries lines
         of credit and general terms of commitment agreements.





                                      S-53

                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

                      SCHEDULE IX - SHORT -TERM BORROWINGS

                         DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992, 1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)







- -----------------
Notes:
   (1)   At month-end.
   (2)   Average based on daily borrowings during the period (averages and
         rates quoted on an actual day year basis).  
   (3)   ALABAMA also issued commercial paper during 1993, although none was 
         outstanding at year-end. The data shown reflects the issuance of 
         commercial paper.
   (4)   See Note 5 to ALABAMA's financial statements in Item 8 herein for
         details regarding ALABAMA's lines of credit.





                                      S-54

                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

                      SCHEDULE IX - SHORT -TERM BORROWINGS

                       DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND  1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)






- --------------------
Notes:
   (1)   At month-end
   (2)   Average based on daily borrowings during period (averages and rates
         quoted on an actual day year basis).  
   (3)   See Note 8 to GEORGIA's financial statements in Item 8 herein for 
         details regarding GEORGIA's lines of credit and general terms of its 
         commitment agreements.





                                      S-55

                               GULF POWER COMPANY

                      SCHEDULE IX - SHORT -TERM BORROWINGS

                       DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND  1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)







- ----------------------
Notes:
   (1)   At month-end
   (2)   Average based on daily borrowings during period (averages and rates
         quoted on an actual day year basis).  
   (3)   See Note 5 to GULF's financial statements in Item 8 herein for a 
         description of this short-term indebtedness.  
   (4)   See Note 5 to GULF's financial statements in Item 8 herein for 
         details regarding GULF's lines of credit and general terms of its 
         commitment agreements.





                                      S-56

                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

                      SCHEDULE IX - SHORT -TERM BORROWINGS

                       DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND  1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)







- ----------------------
Notes:
   (1)   At month-end
   (2)   Average based on daily borrowings during period (averages and rates
         quoted on an actual day year basis).  
   (3)   See Note 5 to MISSISSIPPI's financial statements in Item 8 herein for 
         details regarding MISSISSIPPI's lines of credit and general terms of 
         its commitment agreements.





                                      S-57

                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

                      SCHEDULE IX - SHORT -TERM BORROWINGS

                       DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND  1991

                        (Stated in Thousands of Dollars)




                                                                 


Notes:
   (1)   At month-end
   (2)   Average based on daily borrowings during period (averages and rates
         quoted on an actual day year basis).  
   (3)   See Note 5 to SAVANNAH's financial statements in Item 8 herein for 
         details regarding SAVANNAH's lines of credit and general terms of its 
         commitment agreements.





                                      S-58

                 THE SOUTHERN COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

            SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                        DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991

                             (Thousands of Dollars)








                                      S-59

                             ALABAMA POWER COMPANY

            SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                        DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991

                             (Thousands of Dollars)









                                      S-60

                             GEORGIA POWER COMPANY

            SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                        DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991

                             (Thousands of Dollars)








                                      S-61

                               GULF POWER COMPANY

            SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                        DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991

                             (Thousands of Dollars)








                                      S-62

                           MISSISSIPPI POWER COMPANY

            SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                        DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991

                             (Thousands of Dollars)









                                      S-63

                      SAVANNAH ELECTRIC AND POWER COMPANY

            SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION

                        DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991

                             (Thousands of Dollars)









                                      S-64

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

     The following exhibits indicated by an asterisk preceding the exhibit
number are filed herewith.  The balance of the exhibits have heretofore been
filed with the SEC, respectively, as the exhibits and in the file numbers
indicated and are incorporated herein by reference.  Reference is made to a
duplicate list of exhibits being filed as a part of this Form 10-K, which list,
prepared in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K of the SEC, immediately
precedes the exhibits being physically filed with this Form 10-K.

(3)      ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION AND BY-LAWS

     SOUTHERN

     (a) 1     -    Composite Certificate of Incorporation of SOUTHERN, 
                    reflecting all amendments to date.  (Designated in 
                    Registration No. 33-3546 as Exhibit 4(a), in Certificate 
                    of Notification, File No. 70-7341, as Exhibit A and in 
                    Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8181, as Exhibit 
                    A.)

     (a) 2     -    By-laws of SOUTHERN as amended effective October 21, 1991, 
                    and as presently in effect.  (Designated in Form U-1, File 
                    No. 70-8181 as Exhibit A-2.)

     ALABAMA

     (b) 1     -    Charter of ALABAMA and amendments thereto through November 
                    19, 1993.  (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-59634 as 
                    Exhibit 2(b), 2-60209 as Exhibit 2(c), 2-60484 as Exhibit 
                    2(b), 2-70838 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 2-85987 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 
                    33-25539 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-43917 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in 
                    Form 8-K dated February 5, 1992, File No. 1-3164, as 
                    Exhibit 4(b)-3, in Form 8-K dated July 8, 1992, File No. 
                    1-3164, as Exhibit 4(b)-3, in Form 8-K dated October 27, 
                    1993, File No. 1-3164, as Exhibits 4(a) and 4(b) and in 
                    Form 8-K dated November 16, 1993, File No. 1-3164, as 
                    Exhibit 4(a).)

     (b) 2     -    By-laws of ALABAMA as amended effective April 24, 1992, 
                    and as presently in effect.  (Designated in Registration 
                    No. 33-48885 as Exhibit 4(c).)

     GEORGIA

     (c) 1     -    Charter of GEORGIA and amendments thereto through October 
                    25, 1993.  (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-63392 as 
                    Exhibit 2(a)-2, 2-78913 as Exhibits 4(a)-(2) and 4(a)-(3), 
                    2-93039 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-96810 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 
                    33-141 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-1359 as Exhibit 4(a)(2), 
                    33-5405 as Exhibit 4(b)(2), 33-14367 as Exhibits 4(b)-(2) 
                    and 4(b)-(3), 33-22504 as Exhibits 4(b)-(2), 4(b)-(3) and 
                    4(b)-(4), in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended 
                    December 31, 1991, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibits 4(a)(2) 
                    and 4(a)(3), in Registration No. 33-48895 as Exhibits 
                    4(b)-(2) and 4(b)-(3), in Form 8-K dated December 10, 1992, 
                    File No. 1-6468 as Exhibit 4(b), in Form 8-K dated June 17, 
                    1993, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(b) and in Form 8-K 
                    dated October 20, 1993, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(b).)


                                     E-1

     (c) 2     -    By-laws of GEORGIA as amended effective July 18, 1990, and 
                    as presently in effect.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 
                    10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No.1-6468, 
                    as Exhibit 3.)
     GULF

     (d) 1     -    Restated Articles of Incorporation of GULF and amendments 
                    thereto through November 8, 1993.  (Designated in 
                    Registration No. 33-43739 as Exhibit 4(b)-1, in Form 8-K 
                    dated January 15, 1992, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 1(b), 
                    in Form 8-K dated August 18, 1992, File No. 0-2429, as 
                    Exhibit 4(b)-2, in Form 8-K dated September 22, 1993, File 
                    No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4 and in Form 8-K dated November 3, 
                    1993, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit 4.)

    *(d) 2     -    By-laws of GULF as amended effective February 25, 1994, and 
                    as presently in effect.

     MISSISSIPPI

     (e) 1     -    Articles of incorporation of MISSISSIPPI, articles of 
                    merger of Mississippi Power Company (a Maine corporation) 
                    into MISSISSIPPI and articles of amendment to the articles 
                    of incorporation of MISSISSIPPI through August 19, 1993.  
                    (Designated in Registration No. 2-71540 as Exhibit 4(a)-1,
                    in Form U5S for 1987, File No. 30-222-2, as Exhibit B-10, 
                    in Registration No. 33-49320 as Exhibit 4(b)-(1), in Form 
                    8-K dated August 5, 1992, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibits 
                    4(b)-2 and 4(b)-3, in Form 8-K dated August 4, 1993, File 
                    No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(b)-3 and in Form 8-K dated August 
                    18, 1993, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(b)-3.)

     (e) 2     -    By-laws of MISSISSIPPI as amended effective August 22, 
                    1989, and as presently in effect.  (Designated in 
                    MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
                    1989, as Exhibit 3(b).)

     SAVANNAH

     (f) 1     -    Charter of SAVANNAH and amendments thereto through 
                    November 10, 1993.  (Designated in Registration Nos. 
                    33-25183 as Exhibit 4(b)-(1), 33-45757 as Exhibit 4(b)-(2) 
                    and in Form 8-K dated November 9, 1993, File No. 1-5072, 
                    as Exhibit 4(b).)

    *(f) 2     -    By-laws of SAVANNAH as amended effective February 16, 1994, 
                    and as presently in effect.

(4) INSTRUMENTS DESCRIBING RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS, INCLUDING INDENTURES

     ALABAMA

     (b)       -    Indenture dated as of January 1, 1942, between ALABAMA and 
                    Chemical Bank, as Trustee, and indentures supplemental 
                    thereto through that dated as of January 1, 1994.  
                    (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-59843 as Exhibit 2(a)-2, 
                    2-60484 as Exhibits 2(a)-3 and 2(a)-4, 2-60716 as Exhibit 
                    2(c), 2-67574 as


                                     E-2

                   Exhibit 2(c), 2-68687 as Exhibit 2(c), 2-69599 as Exhibit 
                   4(a)-2, 2-71364 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 2- 73727 as Exhibit 
                   4(a)-2, 33-5079 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-17083 as Exhibit 
                   4(a)-2, 33-22090 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in ALABAMA's Form 10-K 
                   for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-3164, as 
                   Exhibit 4(c), in Registration Nos. 33-43917 as Exhibit 
                   4(a)-2, 33-45492 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33- 48885 as Exhibit 
                   4(a)-2, 33-48917 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in Form 8-K dated 
                   January 20, 1993, File No. 1-3436, as Exhibit 4(a)-3, in 
                   Form 8-K dated February 17, 1993, File No.1-3436, as 
                   Exhibit 4(a)-3, in Form 8-K dated March 10, 1993, File No. 
                   1-3436, as Exhibit 4(a)-3, in Certificate of Notification,
                   File No. 70-8069, as Exhibits A and B, in Form 8-K dated 
                   June 24, 1993, File No. 1- 3436, as Exhibit 4, in 
                   Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8069, as Exhibit A, 
                   in Form 8-K dated November 16, 1993, File No. 1-3436, as 
                   Exhibit 4(b) and in Certificate of Notification, File No. 
                   70-8069, as Exhibits A and B.)

     GEORGIA

     (d)     -     Indenture dated as of March 1, 1941, between GEORGIA and     
                   Chemical Bank, as Trustee, and indentures supplemental 
                   thereto dated as of March 1, 1941, March 3, 1941 (3 
                   indentures), March 6, 1941 (139 indentures), March 1, 1946
                   (88 indentures) and December 1, 1947, through January 1, 
                   1994. (Designated in Registration Nos. 2-4663 as Exhibits B-3
                   and B-3(a), 2-7299 as Exhibit 7(a)-2, 2- 61116 as Exhibit
                   2(a)-3 and 2(a)-4, 2-62488 as Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-63393 as
                   Exhibit 2(a)-4, 2-63705 as Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-68973 as Exhibit
                   2(a)-3, 2-70679 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-72324 as Exhibit
                   4(a)-2, 2-73987 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-77941 as Exhibits
                   4(a)-(2) and 4(a)-(3), 2-79336 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-81303
                   as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 2-90105 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-5405 as
                   Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-14367 as Exhibits 4(a)-(2) and 4(a)-(3),
                   33-22504 as Exhibits 4(a)-(2), 4(a)-(3) and 4(a)-(4),
                   33-32420 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2),  33-35683 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2),
                   in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990,
                   File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(a)(3), in Form 10-K for the
                   year ended December 31, 1991, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                   4(a)(5), in Registration No. 33-48895 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), in
                   Form 8-K dated August 26, 1992, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                   4(a)-(3), in Form 8-K dated September 9, 1992, File No.
                   1-6468, as Exhibits 4(a)-(3) and 4(a)-(4), in Form 8-K dated
                   September 23, 1992, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(a)-(3), in
                   Form 8-A dated October 12, 1992, as Exhibit 2(b), in Form 8-K
                   dated January 27, 1993, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4(a)-(3),
                   in Registration No. 33-49661 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), in Form 8-K
                   dated July 26, 1993, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 4, in
                   Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-7832, as Exhibit M
                   and in Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-7832, as
                   Exhibit C.)

     GULF

     (e)     -     Indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, between GULF and 
                   The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) and The 
                   Citizens & Peoples National Bank of Pensacola, as Trustees, 
                   and indentures supplemental thereto through


                                     E-3

                   November 1, 1993.  (Designated in Registration Nos.
                   2-4833 as Exhibit B-3, 2-62319 as Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-63765 as
                   Exhibit 2(a)-3, 2-66260 as Exhibit 2(a)-3, 33-2809 as
                   Exhibit 4(a)-2, 33-43739 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in GULF's Form
                   10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991, File No. 0-2429,
                   as Exhibit 4(b), in Form 8-K dated August 18, 1992, File No.
                   0-2429, as Exhibit 4(a)-3, in Registration No. 33-50165 as
                   Exhibit 4(a)-2, in Form 8-K dated July 12, 1993, File No.
                   0-2429, as Exhibit 4 and in Certificate of Notification,
                   File No. 70-8229, as Exhibit A.)

     MISSISSIPPI

     (f)      -    Indenture dated as of September 1, 1941, between 
                   MISSISSIPPI and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 
                   as Trustee, and indentures supplemental thereto through 
                   November 1, 1993.  (Designated in Registration Nos.
                   2-4834 as Exhibit B-3, 2-62965 as Exhibit 2(b)-2, 2-66845 as
                   Exhibit 2(b)-2, 2-71537 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-5414 as
                   Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-39833 as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in
                   MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                   1991, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(b), in Form 8-K dated
                   August 5, 1992, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in
                   Second Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-7941, as
                   Exhibit I, in MISSISSIPPI's Form 8-K dated February 26,
                   1993, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 4(a)-2, in Certificate of
                   Notification, File No. 70-8127, as Exhibit A, in Form 8-K
                   dated June 22, 1993, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 1 and in
                   Certificate of Notification, File No. 70-8127, as Exhibit
                   A.)

     SAVANNAH

     (g)      -    Indenture dated as of March 1, 1945, between SAVANNAH and 
                   NationsBank of Georgia, National Association, as
                   Trustee, and indentures supplemental thereto through July 1,
                   1993.  (Designated in Registration Nos. 33-25183 as Exhibit
                   4(a)-(1), 33-41496 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2), 33-45757 as Exhibit
                   4(a)-(2), in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year ended
                   December 31, 1991, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4(b), in Form
                   8-K dated July 8, 1992, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4(a)-3,
                   in Registration No. 33-50587 as Exhibit 4(a)-(2) and in Form
                   8-K dated July 22, 1993, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 4.)

(10) MATERIAL CONTRACTS

     SOUTHERN

     (a) 1    -    Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and Amendment 
                   No. 1 dated as of September 6, 1985, between SCS and
                   ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,  MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN. 
                   (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the  year ended
                   December 31, 1984, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a) and in 
                   SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1985,
                   File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)(3).)

     (a) 2    -    Service contract dated as of July 17, 1981, between SCS and 
                   SEI.  (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended 
                   December 31, 1985, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)(2).)


                                     E-4

     (a) 3   -    Service contract dated as of March 3, 1988, between SCS and 
                  SAVANNAH.  (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year 
                  ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit 10-p.)

     (a) 4   -    Service contract dated as of January 15, 1991, between SCS 
                  and Southern Nuclear. (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K 
                  for the year ended December 31, 1991, File No. 1-3526, as 
                  Exhibit 10(a)(4).)

     (a) 5   -    Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, effective 
                  January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, 
                  SAVANNAH and SCS.  (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for 
                  the year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as 
                  Exhibit 10(b).)

     (a) 6   -    Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959 and Amendment No. 1 
                  dated as of October 27, 1982, among SEGCO, ALABAMA and 
                  GEORGIA.  (Designated in Registration No. 2-59634 as Exhibit 
                  5(c) and in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 
                  31, 1982, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(d)(2).)

     (a) 7   -    Joint Committee Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, among 
                  GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  (Designated in Registration
                  No. 2-61116 as Exhibit 5(d).)

     (a) 8   -    Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Purchase and Ownership 
                  Participation Agreement dated as of January 6, 1975, between 
                  GEORGIA and OPC.  (Designated in Form 8-K for January, 1975, 
                  File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(1).)

     (a) 9   -    Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as of 
                  January 6, 1975, between GEORGIA and OPC.  (Designated in 
                  Form 8-K for January, 1975, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 
                  (b)(3).)

     (a) 10  -    Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System 
                  Agreement dated as of November 12, 1990, between GEORGIA and 
                  OPC.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended 
                  December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(g).)

     (a) 11  -    Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation 
                  Agreement dated as of March 26, 1976, between GEORGIA and 
                  OPC.  (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File No. 
                  70-5592, as Exhibit A.)

     (a) 12  -    Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of March 26, 
                  1976, between GEORGIA and OPC.  (Designated in Certificate of 
                  Notification, File No. 70-5592, as Exhibit B.)

     (a) 13  -    Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Purchase and Ownership 
                  Participation Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, between 
                  GEORGIA, MEAG and Dalton.  (Designated in Form 8-K dated as 
                  of June 13, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(1).)


                                     E-5

     (a) 14   -   Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement dated as of 
                  August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA, MEAG and Dalton.  
                  (Designated in Form 8-K for February, 1977, File No. 1-6468, 
                  as Exhibit (b)(2).)

     (a) 15   -   Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two Purchase and 
                  Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976 
                  and Amendment No. 1 dated as of January 18, 1977, among 
                  GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  (Designated in Form U-1, 
                  File No. 70-5792, as Exhibit B-1 and in Form 8-K for
                  January 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (B)(3).)

     (a) 16   -   Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two Operating 
                  Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, among GEORGIA, OPC, 
                  MEAG and Dalton.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-5792, 
                  as Exhibit B-2.)

     (a) 17   -   Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two Purchase, 
                  Amendment, Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated as of 
                  November 16, 1983, between GEORGIA and MEAG.  (Designated in 
                  GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1983, 
                  File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(k)(4).)

     (a) 18   -   Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation 
                  Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA and 
                  MEAG.  (Designated in Form 8-K dated as of July 5, 1977, 
                  File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(2).)

     (a) 19   -   Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of August 27, 
                  1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG. (Designated in Form 8-K dated 
                  as of July 5, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(4).)

     (a) 20   -   Integrated Transmission System Agreement dated as of August 
                  27, 1976, between GEORGIA and Dalton.  (Designated in Form 
                  8-K dated as of July 5, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 
                  (b)(8).)

     (a) 21   -   Integrated Transmission System Agreement dated as of August 
                  27, 1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG.  (Designated in Form 8-K 
                  for February, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(4).)

     (a) 22   -   Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership Participation 
                  Agreement dated as of April 19, 1977, between GEORGIA and 
                  Dalton.  (Designated in Form 8-K dated as of June 13, 1977, 
                  File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit (b)(3).)

     (a) 23   -   Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of April 19, 
                  1977, between GEORGIA and Dalton.  (Designated in Form 8-K 
                  dated as of June 13, 1977, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 
                  (b)(7).)

     (a) 24   -   Plant Robert W. Scherer Units Number One and Two Purchase 
                  and Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of May 15, 
                  1980, Amendment No. 1 dated as of December 30, 1985, 
                  Amendment No. 2 dated as of July 1, 1986 and Amendment No. 3 
                  dated as of August 1, 1988, among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and
                  Dalton.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6481, as 
                  Exhibit B-3, in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended 
                  December 31, 1987, File


                                     E-6

                     No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(o)(2) and in SOUTHERN's Form 
                     10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989, File No. 
                     1-3526, as Exhibit 10(n)(2).)

     (a) 25     -    Plant Robert W. Scherer Units Number One and Two Operating 
                     Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980 and Amendment No. 1
                     dated as of December 3, 1985, among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and
                     Dalton.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6481, as
                     Exhibit B-4 and in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                     December 31, 1987, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(o)(4).)

     (a) 26     -    Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase, Sale and Option 
                     Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980, between GEORGIA and
                     MEAG.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6481, as
                     Exhibit B-1.)

     (a) 27     -    Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase and Sale Agreement dated 
                     as of May 16, 1980, between GEORGIA and Dalton. 
                     (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6481, as Exhibit
                     B-2.)

     (a) 28     -    Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Purchase and 
                     Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of March 1,
                     1984, Amendment No. 1 dated as of July 1, 1986 and
                     Amendment No. 2 dated as of August 1, 1988, between
                     GEORGIA and GULF.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No.
                     70-6573, as Exhibit B-4, in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the
                     year ended December 31, 1987, as Exhibit 10(o)(2) and in
                     SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989,
                     as Exhibit 10(n)(2).)

     (a) 29     -    Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three Operating 
                     Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984, between GEORGIA
                     and GULF.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-6573, as
                     Exhibit B-5.)

     (a) 30     -    Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Amended and Restated 
                     Purchase and Ownership Participation Agreement by and
                     among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA, dated as of December 31,
                     1990.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7843, as
                     Exhibit B-1.)

     (a) 31     -    Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Operating Agreement 
                     by and among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA, dated as of
                     December 31, 1990.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No.
                     70-7843, as Exhibit B-2.)

     (a) 32     -    Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated 
                     February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18,
                     1982, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI
                     and SCS.  (Designated in MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the
                     year ended December 31, 1981, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit
                     10(c)(2) and in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended
                     December 31, 1982, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit 10(r)(3).)

     (a) 33     -    Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May 
                     19, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated August 30, 1984 and
                     Amendment No. 2 dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and
                     ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.  (Designated
                     in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year

                                     E-7

                     ended December 31, 1982, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                     10(s)(2), in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                     December 31, 1984, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(r)(2)
                     and in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                     1990, File No. 1-6468 as Exhibit 10(s)(2).)

     (a) 34   -      Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between 
                     FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                     and SCS. (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for the year
                     ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as Exhibit
                     10(d).)

     (a) 35   -      Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988, 
                     between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.  (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for
                     the year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as
                     Exhibit 10(e).)

     (a) 36   -      Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988, 
                     between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.  (Designated in SAVANNAH's Form 10-K for
                     the year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-5072, as
                     Exhibit 10(f).)

     (a) 37   -      Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 1990, between 
                     Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for
                     the year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as
                     Exhibit 10(x).)

     (a) 38   -      The Southern Company Executive Stock Plan For the Southern 
                     Electric System and the First Amendment thereto. 
                     (Designated in Registration No. 33-30171 as Exhibit 4(c).)

     (a) 39   -      Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, 
                     between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.  (Designated in GULF's Form 10-K for the
                     year ended December 31, 1991, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit
                     10(1).)

     (a) 40   -      Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, 
                     between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.  (Designated in GULF's Form 10-K for the
                     year ended December 31, 1991, File No. 0-2429, as Exhibit
                     10(m).)

     (a) 41   -      Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project 
                     Ownership Participation Agreement dated November 18,
                     1988,  between OPC and GEORGIA.  (Designated in GEORGIA's
                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988, File No.
                     1-6468, as Exhibit 10(x).)

     (a) 42   -      Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Project 
                     Operating Agreement dated November 18, 1988, between
                     OPC and GEORGIA.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for
                     the year ended December 31, 1988, File No. 1-6468, as
                     Exhibit 10(y).) 


                                     E-8

     (a) 43     -    Purchase and Ownership Agreement for Joint Ownership 
                     Interest in the James H. Miller, Jr. Steam Electric
                     Generating Plant Units One and Two dated November 18,
                     1988, between ALABAMA and AEC. (Designated in Form U-1,
                     File No. 70-7609, as Exhibit B-1.)

     (a) 44     -    Operating Agreement for Joint Ownership Interest in the 
                     James H. Miller, Jr. Steam Electric Generating Plant
                     Units One and Two dated November 18, 1988, between ALABAMA
                     and AEC.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70-7609, as
                     Exhibit B-2.)

     (a) 45     -    Transmission Facilities Agreement dated February 25, 1982, 
                     Amendment No. 1 dated May 12, 1982 and Amendment No. 2
                     dated December 6, 1983, between Gulf States and
                     MISSISSIPPI.  (Designated in MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for
                     the year ended December 31, 1981, File No. 0-6849, as
                     Exhibit 10(f), in MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year
                     ended December 31, 1982, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit
                     10(f)(2) and in MISSISSIPPI's Form 10-K for the year ended
                     December 31, 1983, File No. 0-6849, as Exhibit 10(f)(3).)

     (a) 46     -    Form of commitment agreement, Amendment No. 1 and 
                     Amendment No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN, ALABAMA,
                     GEORGIA and MISSISSIPPI revolving credits.  (Designated in
                     Form U-1, File No. 70-7738, as Exhibit A-5 and in Form
                     U-1, File No. 70-7937, as A-5(b).)

     (a) 47     -    Block Power Sale Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC dated 
                     as of November 12, 1990.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form
                     10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No.
                     1-6468, as Exhibit 10(cc).)

     (a) 48     -    Coordination Services Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC 
                     dated as of November 12, 1990. (Designated in GEORGIA's
                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No.
                     1-6468, as Exhibit 10(dd).)

    *(a) 49    -     Amended and Restated Nuclear Managing Board Agreement for 
                     Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG
                     and Dalton dated as of July 1, 1993.

     (a) 50     -    Integrated Transmission System Agreement, Power Sale and 
                     Coordination Umbrella Agreement between GEORGIA and OPC
                     dated as of November 12, 1990.  (Designated in GEORGIA's
                     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, File No.
                     1-6468, as Exhibit 10(ff).)

     (a) 51     -    Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System 
                     Agreement between GEORGIA and Dalton dated as of
                     December 7, 1990.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for
                     the year ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as
                     Exhibit 10(gg).)

     (a) 52     -    Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission System 
                     Agreement between GEORGIA and MEAG dated as of December
                     7, 1990.  (Designated in GEORGIA's Form 10-K for the year
                     ended December 31, 1990, File No. 1-6468, as Exhibit
                     10(hh).) 


                                     E-9

     (a) 53    -     Long Term Transmission Service Agreement between Entergy 
                     Power, Inc. and ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI and SCS. 
                     (Designated in SOUTHERN's Form 10-K for the year ended
                     December 31, 1992, File No. 1-3526, as Exhibit 10(a)53.)

    *(a) 54    -     Amendment No. 4 to the Plant Robert W. Scherer Units 
                     Number One and Two Purchase and Ownership Participation
                     Agreement dated as of December 31, 1990.

    *(a) 55    -     Amendment No. 2 to the Plant Robert W. Scherer Units 
                     Number One and Two Operating Agreement dated as of
                     December 31, 1990.

    *(a) 56    -     Plant Scherer Managing Board Agreement dated as of 
                     December 31, 1990 among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG, Dalton,
                     GULF, FP&L and JEA.

    *(a) 57    -     Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Purchase and Ownership 
                     Participation Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH
                     dated as of December 15, 1992.

    *(a) 58    -     Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Operating Agreement 
                     between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as of December 15,
                     1992.

    *(a) 59    -     Power Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 1993 
                     between GEORGIA and FPC.

     ALABAMA

     (b) 1     -     Indenture dated as of June 1, 1959, between SEGCO and 
                     Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, and indentures supplemental
                     thereto through December 1, 1962.  (Designated in
                     Registration No. 2-59843 as Exhibit 2(a)-8.)

     (b) 2     -     Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and 
                     Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 6, 1985, between
                     SCS and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and
                     SOUTHERN.  See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein.

     (b) 3     -     Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, effective 
                     January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                     MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein.

     (b) 4     -     Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959 and Amendment No. 
                     1 dated as of October 27, 1982, among SEGCO, ALABAMA
                     and GEORGIA.  See Exhibit 10(a)6 herein.

     (b) 5     -     Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated 
                     February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated May 18,
                     1982, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI
                     and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)32 herein.

                                     E-10

     (b) 6    -      Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement dated May 
                     19, 1982, Amendment No. 1, dated August 30, 1984 and
                     Amendment No. 2, dated October 30, 1987, between JEA and
                     ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.  See Exhibit
                     10(a)33 herein.

     (b) 7    -      Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, between 
                     FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH
                     and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)34 herein.

     (b) 8    -      Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20, 1988, 
                     between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)35 herein.

     (b) 9    -      Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 17, 1988, 
                     between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)36 herein.

     (b) 10   -      Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 1990, 
                     between Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                     MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)37
                     herein.

     (b) 11   -      Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, 
                     between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)39 herein.

     (b) 12   -      Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 1990, 
                     between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI,
                     SAVANNAH and SCS.   See Exhibit 10(a)40 herein.

     (b) 13   -      Firm Power Purchase Contract between ALABAMA and AMEA.  
                     (Designated in Certificate of Notification, File No.
                     70-7212, as Exhibit B.)

     (b) 14   -      1991 Firm Power Purchase Contract between ALABAMA and 
                     AMEA.  (Designated in Form U-1, File No. 70- 7873, as
                     Exhibit B-1.)

     (b) 15   -      Purchase and Ownership Agreement for Joint Ownership 
                     Interest in the James H. Miller, Jr. Steam Electric
                     Generating Plant Units One and Two dated November 18,
                     1988, between ALABAMA and AEC.  See Exhibit 10(a)43
                     herein.

     (b) 16   -      Operating Agreement for Joint Ownership Interest in the 
                     James H. Miller, Jr. Steam Electric Generating Plant
                     Units One and Two dated November 18, 1988, between ALABAMA
                     and AEC.  See Exhibit 10(a)44 herein.

     (b) 17   -      Form of commitment agreement, Amendment No. 1 and 
                     Amendment No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN, ALABAMA,
                     GEORGIA and MISSISSIPPI revolving credits.  See Exhibit
                     10(a)46 herein. 


                                     E-11

     (b) 18           -       Long Term Transmission Service Agreement between
                              Entergy Power, Inc. and ALABAMA, MISSISSIPPI and
                              SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)53 herein.

     GEORGIA

     (c) 1            -       Indenture dated as of June 1, 1959, between 
                              SEGCO and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, and 
                              indentures supplemental thereto through December
                              1, 1962.  See Exhibit 10(b)1 herein.

     (c) 2            -       Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and
                              Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 6, 1985,
                              between SCS and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIP
                              PI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN.  See Exhibit 10(a)1 
                              herein.

     (c) 3            -       Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, 
                              effective January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, 
                              GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  
                              See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein.

     (c) 4            -       Agreement dated as of January 27, 1959 and 
                              Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 27, 1982, 
                              among SEGCO, ALABAMA and GEORGIA.  See Exhibit 
                              10(a)6 herein.

     (c) 5            -       Joint Committee Agreement dated as of August 27,
                              1976, among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  See
                              Exhibit 10(a)7 herein.

     (c) 6            -       Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Purchase and 
                              Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of 
                              January 6, 1975, between GEORGIA and OPC.  See 
                              Exhibit 10(a)8 herein.

     (c) 7            -       Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement
                              dated as of January 6, 1975, between GEORGIA and
                              OPC.  See Exhibit  10(a)9 herein.

     (c) 8            -       Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission 
                              System Agreement dated as of November 12, 1990,
                              between GEORGIA and OPC.  See Exhibit 10(a)10 
                              herein.

     (c) 9            -       Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership 
                              Participation Agreement dated as of March 26, 
                              1976, between GEORGIA and OPC.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              11 herein.

     (c) 10           -       Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of
                              March 26, 1976, between GEORGIA and OPC.  See
                              Exhibit 10(a)12 herein.

     (c) 11           -       Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Purchase and 
                              Ownership Participation Agreement dated as of 
                              August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA, MEAG and 
                              Dalton.  See Exhibit 10(a)13 herein.

     (c) 12           -       Edwin I. Hatch Nuclear Plant Operating Agreement
                              dated as of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA,
                              MEAG and Dalton.  See Exhibit 10(a)14 herein.


                                     E-12

     (c) 13           -       Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two
                              Purchase and Ownership Participation Agreement
                              dated as of August 27, 1976 and Amendment No. 1 
                              dated as of January 18, 1977, among GEORGIA, OPC,
                              MEAG and Dalton.  See Exhibit 10(a)15 herein.

     (c) 14           -       Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two
                              Operating Agreement dated as of August 27, 1976,
                              among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  See Exhibit
                              10(a)16 herein.

     (c) 15           -       Alvin W. Vogtle Nuclear Units Number One and Two 
                              Purchase, Amendment, Assignment and Assumption
                              Agreement dated as of November 16, 1983, between 
                              GEORGIA and MEAG.  See Exhibit 10(a)17 herein.

     (c) 16           -       Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership 
                              Participation Agreement dated as of August 27, 
                              1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG.  See Exhibit 
                              10(a)18 herein.

     (c) 17           -       Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as 
                              of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG. See
                              Exhibit 10(a)19 herein.

     (c) 18           -       Integrated Transmission System Agreement dated 
                              as of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA and Dalton.
                              See Exhibit 10(a)20 herein.

     (c) 19           -       Integrated Transmission System Agreement dated 
                              as of August 27, 1976, between GEORGIA and MEAG.
                              See Exhibit 10(a)21 herein.

     (c) 20           -       Plant Hal Wansley Purchase and Ownership 
                              Participation Agreement dated as of April 19, 
                              1977, between GEORGIA and Dalton.  See Exhibit 
                              10(a)22 herein.

     (c) 21           -       Plant Hal Wansley Operating Agreement dated as of
                              April 19, 1977, between GEORGIA and Dalton.  See
                              Exhibit 10(a)23 herein.

     (c) 22           -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Units Number One and Two 
                              Purchase and Ownership Participation Agreement
                              dated as of May 15, 1980, Amendment No. 1 dated 
                              as of December 30, 1985, Amendment No. 2 dated as
                              of July 1, 1986 and Amendment No. 3 dated as of 
                              August 1, 1988, among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and
                              Dalton.  See Exhibit 10(a)24 herein.

     (c) 23           -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Units Number One and Two 
                              Operating Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980 and
                              Amendment No. 1 dated as of December 3, 1985, 
                              among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton.  See Exhibit
                              10(a)25 herein.

     (c) 24           -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase, Sale and Option
                              Agreement dated as of May 15, 1980, between
                              GEORGIA and MEAG.  See Exhibit 10(a)26 herein.

     (c) 25           -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Purchase and Sale 
                              Agreement dated as of May 16, 1980, between 
                              GEORGIA and Dalton.  See Exhibit 10(a)27 herein.


                                     E-13

     (c) 26           -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three 
                              Purchase and Ownership Participation Agreement 
                              dated as of March 1, 1984, Amendment No. 1 dated
                              as of July 1, 1986 and Amendment No. 2 dated as 
                              of August 1, 1988, between GEORGIA and GULF. See 
                              Exhibit 10(a)28 herein.

     (c) 27           -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three 
                              Operating Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984, 
                              between GEORGIA and GULF.  See Exhibit 10(a)29 
                              herein.

     (c) 28           -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Amended and
                              Restated Purchase and Ownership Participation
                              Agreement by and among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA 
                              dated as of December 31, 1990.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              30 herein.

     (c) 29           -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit No. Four Operating 
                              Agreement by and among GEORGIA, FP&L and JEA dated
                              as of December 31, 1990.  See Exhibit 10(a)31 
                              herein.

     (c) 30           -       Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement 
                              dated February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated
                              May 18, 1982, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA,
                              GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)32
                              herein.

     (c) 31           -       Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement 
                              dated May 19, 1982, Amendment No. 1, dated August
                              30, 1984 and Amendment No. 2 dated October 30, 
                              1987, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)33 herein.

     (c) 32           -       Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, 
                              between FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, 
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              34 herein.

     (c) 33           -       Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20,
                              1988, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              35 herein.

     (c) 34           -       Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 
                              17, 1988, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              36 herein.

     (c) 35           -       Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 
                              1990, between Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, 
                              GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See 
                              Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

    *(c) 36           -       Power Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 
                              1993 between GEORGIA and FPC.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              59 herein.

     (c) 37           -       Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 
                              1990, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              39 herein.


                                     E-14

     (c) 38           -       Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 
                              1990, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              40 herein.

     (c) 39           -       Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric 
                              Project Ownership Participation Agreement dated
                              November 18, 1988, between OPC and GEORGIA.  See 
                              Exhibit 10(a)41 herein.

     (c) 40           -       Rocky Mountain Pumped Storage Hydroelectric 
                              Project Operating Agreement dated November 18, 
                              1988, between OPC and GEORGIA.  See Exhibit 
                              10(a)42 herein.

     (c) 41           -       Form of commitment agreement, Amendment No. 1 
                              and Amendment No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN,
                              ALABAMA, GEORGIA and MISSISSIPPI revolving 
                              credits.  See Exhibit 10(a)46 herein.

     (c) 42           -       Block Power Sale Agreement between GEORGIA and 
                              OPC dated as of November 12, 1990.  See Exhibit
                              10(a)47 herein.

     (c) 43           -       Coordination Services Agreement between GEORGIA 
                              and OPC dated as of November 12, 1990.  See
                              Exhibit 10(a)48 herein.

    *(c) 44           -       Amended and Restated Nuclear Managing Board 
                              Agreement for Plant Hatch and Plant Vogtle among
                              GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG and Dalton dated as of July 1,
                              1993.  See Exhibit 10(a)49 herein.

     (c) 45           -       Integrated Transmission System Agreement, Power 
                              Sale and Coordination Umbrella Agreement between
                              GEORGIA and OPC dated as of November 12, 1990.  
                              See Exhibit 10(a)50 herein.

     (c) 46           -       Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission 
                              System Agreement between GEORGIA and Dalton dated
                              as of December 7, 1990.  See Exhibit 10(a)51 
                              herein.

     (c) 47           -       Revised and Restated Integrated Transmission 
                              System Agreement between GEORGIA and MEAG dated 
                              as of December 7, 1990.  See Exhibit 10(a)52 
                              herein.

    *(c) 48           -       Amendment No. 4 to the Plant Robert W. Scherer 
                              Units Number One and Two Purchase and Ownership
                              Participation Agreement dated as of December 31, 
                              1990.  See Exhibit 10(a)54 herein.

    *(a) 49           -       Amendment No. 2 to the Plant Robert W. Scherer 
                              Units Number One and Two Operating Agreement dated
                              as of December 31, 1990.  See Exhibit 10(a)55 
                              herein.

    *(c) 50           -       Plant Scherer Managing Board Agreement dated as 
                              of December 31, 1990 among GEORGIA, OPC, MEAG,
                              Dalton, GULF, FP&L and JEA.  See Exhibit 10(a)56 
                              herein.


                                     E-15

    *(c) 51           -       Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Purchase and 
                              Ownership Participation Agreement between GEORGIA
                              and SAVANNAH dated as of December 15, 1992.  See 
                              Exhibit 10(a)57 herein.

    *(c) 52           -       Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Operating 
                              Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated as of
                              December 15, 1992.  See Exhibit 10(a)58 herein.

     GULF

     (d) 1            -       Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and
                              Amendment No. 1 dated as of September 6, 1985,
                              between SCS and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SEGCO and SOUTHERN.  See Exhibit 
                              10(a)1 herein.

     (d) 2            -       Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, 
                              effective January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, 
                              GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  
                              See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein.

     (d) 3            -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three 
                              Purchase and Ownership Participation Agreement 
                              dated as of March 1, 1984, Amendment No. 1 dated 
                              as of July 1, 1986 and Amendment No. 2 dated as 
                              of August 1, 1988, between GEORGIA and GULF.  
                              See Exhibit 10(a)28 herein.

     (d) 4            -       Plant Robert W. Scherer Unit Number Three 
                              Operating Agreement dated as of March 1, 1984, 
                              between GEORGIA and GULF.  See Exhibit 10(a)29 
                              herein.

     (d) 5            -       Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement 
                              dated February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated
                              May 18, 1982, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA,
                              GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)32
                              herein.

     (d) 6            -       Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement 
                              dated May 19, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated August
                              30, 1984 and Amendment No. 2 dated October 30, 
                              1987, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)33 herein.

     (d) 7            -       Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, 
                              between FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              34 herein.

     (d) 8            -       Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20,
                              1988, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              35 herein.

     (d) 9            -       Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 
                              17, 1988, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              36 herein.


                                     E-16

     (d) 10           -       Agreement between GULF and AEC, effective August 
                              1, 1985.  (Designated in GULF's Form 10-K for the
                              year ended December 31, 1985, File No. 0-2429, as
                              Exhibit 10(g).)

     (d) 11           -       Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 
                              1990, between Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, 
                              GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See 
                              Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

     (d) 12           -       Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 
                              1990, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              39 herein.

     (d) 13           -       Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 
                              1990, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              40 herein.

     MISSISSIPPI

     (e) 1            -       Service contracts dated as of January 1, 1984 and
                              Amendment No. 1 dated September 6, 1985, between
                              SCS and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, 
                              SEGCO and SOUTHERN.  See Exhibit 10(a)1 herein.

     (e) 2            -       Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, 
                              effective January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, 
                              GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  
                              See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein.

     (e) 3            -       Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement 
                              dated February 18, 1982 and Amendment No. 1 dated
                              May 18, 1982, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, 
                              GULF, MISSISSIPPI and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)32
                              herein.

     (e) 4            -       Amended and Restated Unit Power Sales Agreement 
                              dated May 19, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated August
                              30, 1984, and Amendment No. 2 dated October 30, 
                              1987, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)33 herein.

     (e) 5            -       Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, 
                              between FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              34 herein.

     (e) 6            -       Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20,
                              1988, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              35 herein.

     (e) 7            -       Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 
                              17, 1988, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              36 herein.


                                     E-17

     (e) 8            -       Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 
                              1990, between Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, 
                              GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See 
                              Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.

     (e) 9            -       Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 
                              1990, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              39 herein.

     (e) 10           -       Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 
                              1990, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              40 herein.

     (e) 11           -       Transmission Facilities Agreement dated February 
                              25, 1982, Amendment No. 1 dated May 12, 1982 and
                              Amendment No. 2 dated December 6, 1983, between 
                              Gulf States and MISSISSIPPI.   See Exhibit 10(a)45
                              herein.

     (e) 12           -       Form of commitment agreement, Amendment No. 1 and
                              Amendment No. 2 with respect to SOUTHERN, 
                              ALABAMA, GEORGIA and MISSISSIPPI revolving 
                              credits.  See Exhibit 10(a)46 herein.

     (e) 13           -       Long Term Transmission Service Agreement between 
                              Entergy Power, Inc. and ALABAMA  MISSISSIPPI and
                              SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)53 herein.

     SAVANNAH

     (f) 1            -       Service contract dated as of March 3, 1988, 
                              between SCS and SAVANNAH.  See Exhibit 10(a)3 
                              herein.

     (f) 2            -       Interchange contract dated October 28, 1988, 
                              effective January 1, 1989, between ALABAMA, 
                              GEORGIA, GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  
                              See Exhibit 10(a)5 herein.

     (f) 3            -       Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 19, 1988, 
                              between FPC and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              34 herein.

     (f) 4            -       Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated July 20,
                              1988, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              35 herein.

     (f) 5            -       Amended Unit Power Sales Agreement dated August 
                              17, 1988, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              36 herein.

     (f) 6            -       Unit Power Sales Agreement dated December 8, 
                              1990, between Tallahassee and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, 
                              GULF, MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See 
                              Exhibit 10(a)37 herein.


                                     E-18

      (f) 7           -       Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 
                              1990, between JEA and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              39 herein.

      (f) 8           -       Transition Energy Agreement dated December 31, 
                              1990, between FP&L and ALABAMA, GEORGIA, GULF,
                              MISSISSIPPI, SAVANNAH and SCS.  See Exhibit 10(a)
                              40 herein.

     *(f) 9           -       Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Purchase and 
                              Ownership Participation Agreement between GEORGIA
                              and SAVANNAH dated as of December 15, 1992.  See 
                              Exhibit 10(a) 57 herein.

     *(f) 10          -       Plant McIntosh Combustion Turbine Operating 
                              Agreement between GEORGIA and SAVANNAH dated 
                              December 15, 1992.  See Exhibit 10(a)58 herein.


(21)     *SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANTS - Contained herein at page IV-5.

(23)     CONSENTS OF EXPERTS AND COUNSEL

     SOUTHERN

     *(a)             -       The consent of Arthur Andersen & Co. is contained
                              herein at page IV-6.

     ALABAMA

     *(b)             -       The consent of Arthur Andersen & Co. is contained
                              herein at page IV-7.

     GEORGIA

     *(c)             -       The consent of Arthur Andersen & Co. is contained
                              herein at page IV-8.

     GULF

     *(d)             -       The consent of Arthur Andersen & Co. is contained
                              herein at page IV-9.

     MISSISSIPPI

     *(e)             -       The consent of Arthur Andersen & Co. is contained
                              herein at page IV-10.

     SAVANNAH

     *(f)             -       The consent of Arthur Andersen & Co. is contained
                              herein at page IV-11.


                                     E-19

(24)     POWERS OF ATTORNEY AND RESOLUTIONS

     SOUTHERN

     *(a)             -       Power of Attorney and resolution.

     ALABAMA

     *(b)             -       Power of Attorney and resolution.

     GEORGIA

     *(c)             -       Power of Attorney and resolution.

     GULF

     *(d)             -       Power of Attorney and resolution.

     MISSISSIPPI

     *(e)             -       Power of Attorney and resolution.

     SAVANNAH

     *(f)             -       Power of Attorney and resolution.


                                     E-20

    

