
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                               ---------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
   ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
 
   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997.
 
                                      OR
 
[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
   FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM         TO
 
                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-16760
 
                               ---------------
 
                                MGM GRAND, INC.
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     NONE
 
                               ---------------
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 Regulation S-K ((S)229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  The aggregate market value of Registrant's Common Stock held by non-
affiliates (based on the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange--
Composite Transactions on March 12, 1998) was approximately $779.2 million. As
of March 12, 1998, 57,990,640 shares of Registrant's Common Stock, $.01 par
value, were outstanding.
 
  Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1997 and Proxy Statement dated April 15, 1998 are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
SAFE HARBOR PROVISIONS
 
  The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe
harbor" for forward-looking statements. Certain information included or
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K contains statements that are
forward-looking, such as statements relating to plans for future expansion and
other business development activities, as well as other capital spending,
financing sources, the effects of regulation (including gaming and tax
regulations) and competition. Such forward-looking information involves
important risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect anticipated
results in the future and, accordingly, such results may differ from those
expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the
Company. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those
relating to development and construction activities, dependence on existing
management, leverage and debt service (including sensitivity to fluctuations
in interest rates), domestic or global economic conditions (including
sensitivity to fluctuations in foreign currencies), changes in federal or
state tax laws or the administration of such laws, changes in gaming laws or
regulations (including legalization of gaming in certain jurisdictions) and
the requirement to apply for licenses and approvals under applicable
jurisdictional laws and regulations (including gaming laws and regulations).
 
GENERAL
 
  MGM Grand, Inc. (the "Company") was organized as a Delaware corporation on
January 29, 1986.
 
  Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, MGM Grand Hotel, Inc., the Company owns
and operates the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino ("MGM Grand Las Vegas"), a
hotel/casino entertainment complex offering a full range of destination resort
amenities. The resort is located on approximately 114 acres at the northeast
corner of Las Vegas Boulevard South (the "Strip") and Tropicana Avenue (the
"New Four Corners") in Las Vegas, Nevada, across the street from New York-New
York Hotel and Casino. MGM Grand Hotel Finance Corp. ("MGM Finance"), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, was formed to issue First Mortgage
Notes to the public, to incur bank debt, and to lend the aggregate proceeds
thereof to MGM Grand Hotel to finance the construction and opening of MGM
Grand Las Vegas. The MGM Finance First Mortgage Notes were defeased on July 3,
1996, in accordance with the terms of the bond indenture, and on October 29,
1996, all Company asset liens related thereto were released and the defeasance
was finalized.
 
  Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, MGM Grand Australia Pty Ltd., the
Company owns and operates the MGM Grand Australia, a hotel/casino resort in
Darwin, Australia. MGM Grand Australia is located on 18 acres of beachfront
property on the north central coast of Australia. The resort includes a public
and private casino, 96 rooms and suites, restaurants, and other facilities.
 
  The Company and Primadonna Resorts, Inc. ("Primadonna") each owns 50% of New
York-New York Hotel and Casino, LLC. ("NYNY LLC"), which completed development
of the $460 million architecturally distinctive, themed destination resort New
York-New York Hotel and Casino ("NYNY") in December 1996. NYNY opened on
January 3, 1997, and is located on approximately 20 acres at the northwest
side of the New Four Corners, across from MGM Grand Las Vegas. NYNY features a
2,033-room hotel, an 84,000 square foot casino, themed entertainment
attractions, restaurants, and retail outlets.
 
  Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, MGM Grand South Africa, Inc., the
Company manages casinos in Nelspruit and Witbank, in the Mpumalanga Province
of the Republic of South Africa, which began operations on October 15, 1997
and March 10, 1998, respectively. A third license was granted in the city of
Johannesburg for which a temporary casino could open by late 1998. On July 30,
1996, the Company entered into an agreement with Tsogo Sun Holdings (Pty)
Limited ("Tsogo Sun"), a joint venture company formed by the Southern Sun
Group and Tsogo Investment Holding Company (Pty) Limited, to act as the
exclusive casino project developer and manager for the joint venture company,
which contemplates applying for up to 15 casino licenses in the
 

 
Republic of South Africa. Under the agreement, the Company will earn fees for
the development and management of all casino operations of Tsogo Sun. Tsogo
Sun will provide or procure all of the financing necessary for the
hotel/casino projects. The National Gambling Act was approved and assented to
by the President of the government of South Africa on June 27, 1996.
 
  Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc., the
Company intends to construct and operate a destination resort hotel/casino,
entertainment and retail facility in Atlantic City, New Jersey, at a minimum
approximate cost of $700 million, on approximately 35 acres of land on the
Atlantic City Boardwalk. Construction of the project is subject to the receipt
of various governmental approvals. On July 24, 1996, the Company was found
suitable for licensing by the New Jersey Casino Control Commission.
 
  On June 26, 1997, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary MGM Grand
Detroit, Inc., and its partners in Detroit formed a joint venture, MGM Grand
Detroit, LLC, to develop a hotel/casino and entertainment complex at a minimum
approximate cost of $700 million. On November 20, 1997, MGM Grand Detroit,
L.L.C. was chosen as one of the three finalists to develop, own and operate
one of Detroit's three new casinos pending negotiation of a development
agreement with the City of Detroit and subject to approval by governmental
authorities. The plans for the project call for an 800 room hotel and casino,
exciting signature restaurant/retail outlets, a showroom and other
entertainment venues. On March 12, 1998, MGM Grand Detroit, LLC entered into a
development agreement with the City of Detroit and its Economic Development
Corporation with respect to such project. The agreement is subject to a number
of conditions. See "Buisness--Detroit Project."
 
  For certain information about the Company's industry segments, see Note 20
to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Exhibit 13,
which is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
  The Company's principal executive offices are located at 3799 Las Vegas
Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109. The Company's telephone number is
(702) 891-3333.
 
LAS VEGAS HOTELS AND GAMING
 
 MGM Grand Las Vegas
 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas, the Company's flagship property, is a multi-themed
destination resort, located on approximately 114 acres, which management
believes is a "must see" attraction for visitors to Las Vegas. The resort
opened on December 18, 1993, and has over 350 feet of frontage on the Strip
and 1,450 feet of frontage on Tropicana Avenue. The complex is easily
accessible from McCarran International Airport and from Interstate 15 via
Tropicana Avenue.
 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas creates an exciting and unique gaming and entertainment
experience which is intended to appeal to all segments of the Las Vegas
market.
 
  The casino is approximately 171,500 square feet in size, which management
believes is one of the largest casinos in the world. The casino has 3,669 slot
machines and 157 table games, a state of the art baccarat room, including
private premium play facilities, a poker room, a race and sports book, and a
keno lounge. The casino features four separate themed areas: Entertainment,
Hollywood, Monte Carlo, and Sports which enhance the entertainment experience
of the casino patron.
 
  The hotel/casino, which management believes is one of the largest in the
world, has 5,005 rooms, including approximately 4,254 typical guest rooms
decorated in five different themes: Deep South, Hollywood, Monte Carlo,
Emerald, and Casablanca. The hotel also has 751 luxury suites, ranging in size
from 650 to 6,000 square feet, representing a suite-to-room ratio which
management believes is one of the highest among the Strip properties.
 
  In an effort to continue a legacy of providing exceptional entertainment
through the leveraging of its highly recognizable brand name, on May 6, 1996,
the Company embarked on an extensive transformation of MGM Grand Las Vegas
into "The City of Entertainment." The $250 million, 30-month Master Plan
program was designed to enhance the quality of the entertainment experience,
through a series of substantive improvements and additions throughout the 114
acre destination resort. The Master Plan was enhanced and increased during
 

 
1997 to more than $700 million, calling for a new 1,500 room "Marriott
Marquis," expansion of the resort's casino capacity by nearly 20 percent to
more than 200,000 square feet; a new "Mansion at the MGM Grand" offering 30
exclusive suites and villas; a new 380,000 square foot state-of-the-art
conference center; a new 6.6 acre pool and spa complex; significantly expanded
and improved parking facilities; and an approximately 50 foot tall new
polished bronze lion sculpture on a 25 foot pedestal which is the resort's
signature, adjoining a re-themed Entertainment Casino that includes a
Rainforest Cafe and a Studio 54 nightclub. The completed "Studio Walk"
portrays a Hollywood sound stage and reflects an appearance that is inspired
by a number of Hollywood landmarks, including the Brown Derby restaurant, the
Farmers Market food court, and Griffith Park Observatory retail facilities.
The Company also announced that by the year 2000, it may construct a 500 room
Ritz-Carlton Hotel at MGM Grand Las Vegas. On December 22, 1997, the Company
announced the signing of a definitive agreement to develop the 1,500 room
Marriott Marquis.
 
  Other entertainment facilities include: a theme park with thrill rides such
as the 250 foot high SkyScreamer Skycoaster; an 11,700 square foot arcade
containing carnival games of skill and an extensive video arcade including
virtual reality simulators; a 660 seat showroom providing celebrity
entertainment; a 1,774 seat showroom specifically designed for the EFX
production show, the Company's original grand spectacle special effects stage
production; eleven restaurants and a food court; 36 retail shopping outlets,
including 19 owned and 17 leased facilities; and a special events center,
which seats a maximum of 16,766 patrons, providing mega entertainment such as
Barbra Streisand, Bette Midler, the Rolling Stones, Rod Stewart, Neil Diamond,
Elton John, Phil Collins, and Luther Vandross, as well as championship boxing
events and various other sporting events.
 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas uses the unique characteristics of the property to
target the following segments of the Las Vegas market: (i) free and
independent travelers; (ii) tour and travel; (iii) special events/conventions;
(iv) high-end gaming; and (v) locals.
 
 New York-New York
 
  The Company's 50% joint venture, NYNY LLC, completed construction of NYNY in
December 1996, and opened NYNY on January 3, 1997. The 47-story destination
resort, which management believes is architecturally the most distinctive
property ever built in Las Vegas, replicates many of Manhattan's landmark
buildings and icons, including the Statue of Liberty, the Empire State
Building, Central Park, the Brooklyn Bridge, and a Coney Island-style roller
coaster.
 
  The casino is approximately 84,000 square feet in size and has approximately
2,400 slot machines and 70 table games. The casino features numerous themed
interiors including: Park Avenue with retail shops; The Financial District
consisting of the cashiers' cage; Central Park setting in the central casino
area; and Little Italy with its traditional food court set inside a typical
residential neighborhood.
 
 Las Vegas Market
 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY operate in the Las Vegas market and are located
on the Strip. Las Vegas is the largest city in Nevada, with a metropolitan
area population in excess of one million and is one of the most traveled
resort destinations in the world.
 
  Gaming has continued to be a strong and growing business in Las Vegas. Las
Vegas Strip gaming revenues have increased at a compound annual growth rate of
8.9% from $1.6 billion in 1987 to $3.8 billion in 1997.
 
  The hotel/casino industry in Las Vegas is highly competitive. Currently,
several new resorts are under construction and several other existing resorts
are undergoing major expansion and renovation. The Company's MGM Grand Las
Vegas, as well as Bellagio, Project Paradise, Caesars, Venetian, Paris and
other hotel/casino properties are in various stages of expansion, construction
or remodeling. While some of the large themed resorts pose direct competition
with MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY, the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors
 

 
Authority ("LVCVA") statistics show that visitor volume for 1997 increased
2.8% over 1996. Total visitors for 1997 exceeded 30.4 million. The Company's
future operating results could be adversely affected by excess room and gaming
capacity.
 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY compete with gaming and resort facilities in
Las Vegas as well as gaming and resort facilities elsewhere in the world. To
some extent, state lotteries and state-authorized and locally approved card
rooms, such as those operating in California compete with the gaming and
resort facilities in Las Vegas. Gambling, with various limitations and
conditions, is currently legal in numerous locations throughout the United
States. The proliferation of such gaming facilities on riverboats and
elsewhere is increasing. Also, as a result of certain legislative and court
decisions, casino-type operations are being established at various Native
American reservations throughout the country. The development of full service
casinos in California would likely have a negative effect on MGM Grand Las
Vegas and NYNY's operations. Furthermore, pursuant to recent reports,
including a California State Assembly Legislative report, it is estimated that
as many as approximately 15,000 slot machines are operating in various
jurisdictions in California, the legality of which is the subject of dispute
between the State of California and various Native American tribes. See
"Competition."
 
 Insurance
 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY carry insurance of the type customary in the
hotel and casino industry and in amounts deemed adequate by management to
protect the properties. The policies provide business and commercial
coverages, including workers' compensation, third party liability, property
damage, boiler and machinery, and business interruption.
 
 Nevada Government Regulation
 
  The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in Clark County,
Nevada are subject to: (i) the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations
promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Nevada Act"); and (ii) various
local regulations. The Company's gaming operations are subject to the
licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the "Nevada
Commission"), the Nevada State Gaming Control Board (the "Nevada Board"), and
the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the "CCLGLB"). The Nevada
Commission, the Nevada Board, and the CCLGLB are collectively referred to as
the "Nevada Gaming Authorities."
 
  The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming
Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy that are concerned
with, among other things: (i) the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons
from having a direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any
capacity; (ii) the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting
practices of licensees, including the establishment of minimum procedures for
internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenues;
(iii) providing reliable record keeping and requiring the filing of periodic
reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities; (iv) the prevention of cheating
and fraudulent practices; and (v) providing a source of state and local
revenues through taxation and licensing fees. Any change in such laws,
regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on the Company's
gaming operations.
 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas operates a casino and is required to be licensed by the
Nevada Gaming Authorities. The gaming license requires the periodic payment of
fees and taxes and is not transferable. MGM Grand Las Vegas is also licensed
as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices, as the operator of the
racebook and sportspool at NYNY, and the Company is licensed as one of the two
managers of NYNY. The Company is also required to be registered by the Nevada
Commission as a publicly traded corporation ("Registered Corporation") and as
such, it is required periodically to submit detailed financial and operating
reports to the Nevada Commission and furnish any other information that the
Nevada Commission may require. No person may become a stockholder or member
of, or receive any percentage of profits from, MGM Grand Las Vegas or NYNY
without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming
Authorities. The Company, MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY have obtained from the
Nevada Gaming Authorities the various registrations, approval permits and
licenses required in order to engage in gaming activities in Nevada.
 
  The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a
material relationship to, or material involvement with, the Company, MGM Grand
Las Vegas or NYNY to determine whether such
 

 
individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a
gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain key employees of MGM Grand
Las Vegas and NYNY must file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities
and may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming
Authorities. Officers, directors and key employees of the Company who are
actively and directly involved in the gaming activities of MGM Grand Las Vegas
or NYNY may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming
Authorities. The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for
licensing for any cause they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is
comparable to licensing, and both require submission of detailed personal and
financial information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant for
licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming licensee by whom the
applicant is employed or for whom the applicant serves, must pay all the costs
of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the
Nevada Gaming Authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an
application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Nevada Gaming
Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position.
 
  If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key
employee unsuitable for licensing or unsuitable to continue having a
relationship with the Company, MGM Grand Las Vegas or NYNY, such company or
companies would have to sever all relationships with such person. In addition,
the Nevada Commission may require the Company, MGM Grand Las Vegas or NYNY to
terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate
applications. Determinations of suitability or of questions pertaining to
licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada.
 
  The Company, MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY are required to submit detailed
financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission. Substantially all
material loans, leases, sales or securities and similar financing transactions
by the Company, MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY must be reported to or approved
by the Nevada Commission.
 
  If it were determined that the Nevada Act was violated by MGM Grand Las
Vegas or NYNY, the gaming licenses they hold could be limited, conditioned,
suspended or revoked, subject to compliance with certain statutory and
regulatory procedures. In addition, MGM Grand Las Vegas, NYNY, the Company and
the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate
violation of the Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission.
Further, a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to operate
the Company's gaming properties and, under certain circumstances, earnings
generated during the supervisor's appointment (except for the reasonable
rental value of the gaming properties) could be forfeited to the State of
Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any gaming license or the
appointment of a supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would)
materially adversely affect the Company's gaming operations.
 
  Any beneficial holder of the Company's voting securities, regardless of the
number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, be
investigated, and have their suitability as a beneficial holder of the
Company's voting securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to
believe that such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared
policies of the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of
investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any such
investigation.
 
  The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of the
Company's voting securities to report the acquisition to the Nevada
Commission. The Nevada Act requires that beneficial owners of more than 10% of
the Company's voting securities apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding
of suitability within thirty days after the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails
the written notice requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an
"institutional investor" as defined in the Nevada Act, which acquires more
than 10% but not more than 15% of the Company's voting securities, may apply
to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability if such
institutional investor holds the voting securities for investment purposes
only. An institutional investor shall not be deemed to hold voting securities
for investment purposes unless the voting securities were acquired and are
held in the ordinary course of business as an institutional investor and not
for the purpose of causing, directly or indirectly, the election of a majority
of the members of the board of directors of the Company, any change in the
Company's corporate charter, bylaws, management, policies or operations of the
Company or any of its gaming affiliates, or any other action which the Nevada
Commission finds to be
 

 
inconsistent with holding the Company's voting securities for investment
purposes only. Activities that are not deemed to be inconsistent with holding
voting securities for investment purposes only include: (i) voting on all
matters voted on by stockholders; (ii) making financial and other inquiries of
management of the type normally made by securities analysts for informational
purposes and not to cause a change in its management, policies or operations;
and (iii) such other activities as the Nevada Commission may determine to be
consistent with such investment intent. If the beneficial holder of voting
securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust,
it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of
beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of the
investigation.
 
  Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a
license within thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada
Commission or the Chairman of the Nevada Board, may be found unsuitable. The
same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request,
fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable and
who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common
stock of a Registered Corporation beyond such period of time as may be
prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. The
Company is subject to disciplinary action if, after it receives notice that a
person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship
with the Company, MGM Grand Las Vegas or NYNY, and subsequently the Company,
MGM Grand Las Vegas or NYNY (i) pays that person any dividend or interest upon
voting securities of the Company; (ii) allows that person to exercise,
directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by
that person; (iii) pays remuneration in any form to that person for services
rendered or otherwise; or (iv) fails to pursue all lawful efforts to require
such unsuitable person to relinquish his voting securities for cash at fair
market value. Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position that it has the
authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any
corporation controlling a gaming license.
 
  The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt
security of a registered Corporation to file an application, be investigated
and be found suitable to own the debt security of a Registered Corporation. If
the Nevada Commission determines that a person is unsuitable to own such
security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the Registered Corporation can be
sanctioned, including through the loss of its approvals, if without the prior
approval of the Nevada Commission, it: (i) pays to the unsuitable person any
dividend, interest, or any distribution whatsoever; (ii) recognizes any voting
right by such unsuitable person in connection with such securities; (iii) pays
the unsuitable person remuneration in any form; or (iv) makes any payment to
the unsuitable person by way of principal, redemption, conversion, exchange,
liquidation, or similar transaction.
 
  The Company is required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada that
may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any
securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder
may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada
Gaming Authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for
finding the record holder unsuitable. The Company is also required to disclose
the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A
failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder
unsuitable. The Company is also required to render maximum assistance in
determining the identity of the beneficial owner. The Nevada Commission has
the power to require the Company's stock certificates to bear a legend
indicating that such securities are subject to the Nevada Act. However, to
date, the Nevada Commission has not imposed such a requirement on the Company.
 
  The Company may not make offerings of any securities without the prior
approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or the proceeds therefrom
are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in
Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. Such
approval, if given, does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval
by the Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the accuracy or adequacy of
the prospectus or the investment merits of the securities. Any representation
to the contrary is unlawful.
 
  On July 24, 1997, the Nevada Commission granted the Company prior approval
to make public offerings for a period of two years, subject to certain
conditions (the "Shelf Approval"). However, the Shelf Approval
 

 
may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an
interlocutory stop order by the Chairman of the Nevada Board. The Shelf
Approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation or approval by the
Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the accuracy or adequacy of the
prospectus or the investment merits of the securities offered. Any
representation to the contrary is unlawful.
 
  Changes in control of the Company through merger, consolidation, stock or
asset acquisitions, management or consulting agreements, or any act or conduct
by any person whereby he or she obtains control, may not occur without the
prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control
of a Registered Corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada
Commission concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming
control of such Registered Corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require
controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a
material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire
control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of
the transaction.
 
  The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed
by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics
affecting Nevada gaming licensees, and Registered Corporations that are
affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive
corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to
ameliorate the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon
Nevada's gaming industry and to further Nevada's policy to: (i) assure the
financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates; (ii)
preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form;
and (iii) promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of
corporate affairs. Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the
Nevada Commission before the Company can make exceptional repurchases of
voting securities above the current market price thereof and before a
corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated.
 
  The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization
proposed by the Company's board of directors in response to a tender offer
made directly to the Registered Corporation's stockholders for the purposes of
acquiring control of the Registered Corporation.
 
  License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending on the type of
gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to Clark
County, Nevada. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees
and taxes are payable either monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon
either: (i) a percentage of the gross revenues received; (ii) the number of
gaming devices operated; or (iii) the number of table games operated. A casino
entertainment tax is also paid by MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY where certain
entertainment is provided in a cabaret, nightclub, cocktail lounge or casino
showroom in connection with the serving or selling of food, refreshments, or
merchandise. Casino entertainment tax is also paid for admission, food and
refreshments at a bar located adjacent to a cabaret nightclub, cocktail lounge
or casino showroom if portions of the bar can clearly see and hear the
entertainment, or at a location adjacent to those venues if such locations'
primary purpose is to provide refreshment to patrons viewing entertainment in
the cabaret, nightclub, cocktail lounge or casino showroom. Nevada licensees
that hold a license as a manufacturer or a distributor, such as MGM Grand Las
Vegas and NYNY, also pay certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada.
 
  Any person who is licensed, required to be licensed, registered, required to
be registered, or is under common control with such persons (collectively,
"Licensees"), and who proposes to become involved in a gaming venture outside
of Nevada, is required to deposit with the Nevada Board, and thereafter
maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $10,000 to pay the expenses of
investigation of the Nevada Board of their participation in such foreign
gaming. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the
discretion of the Nevada Commission. Thereafter, Licensees are also required
to comply with certain reporting requirements imposed by the Nevada Act.
Licensees are also subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if
they knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to
foreign gaming operation, fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in
accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada
gaming operations, engage in activities that are harmful to the State of
Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and
 

 
fees, or employ a person in a foreign operation who has been denied a license
or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal unsuitability.
 
  The sale of alcoholic beverages by MGM Grand Las Vegas and NYNY are subject
to licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local authorities. All
licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies involved have
full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any such license, and any
such disciplinary action could (and revocation would) have a material adverse
effect upon the Company's operations.
 
  Pursuant to a 1985 agreement between the state of Nevada and the United
States Department of the Treasury (the "Treasury"), the Nevada Commission and
the Nevada Board have authority, under Regulation 6A of the Nevada Act, to
enforce their own cash transaction reporting laws applicable to casinos which
substantially parallel the federal Bank Secrecy Act. Under the Money
Laundering Suppression Act of 1994 which was passed by Congress, the Secretary
of the Treasury retained the ability to permit states, including Nevada, to
continue to enforce their own cash transaction reporting laws applicable to
casinos. The Nevada Act requires gaming licensees to file reports related to
cash purchases of chips, cash wagers, cash deposits or cash payment of gaming
debts, if any such transactions aggregate more than $10,000 in a 24-hour
period. Casinos are required to monitor receipts and disbursements of currency
in excess of $10,000 and until November 1, 1997, were required to report them
to the Nevada Board, who in turn reported them to the Treasury. As of November
1, 1997, the casinos were required to submit such reports directly to the
Treasury. Pursuant to amendments to the Nevada Act that became effective on
October 1, 1997, casinos also are required under certain circumstances to file
suspicious activity reports directly with an office of the Treasury and
provide copies thereof to the Nevada Board. Although it is not possible to
quantify the full impact of these requirements on the Company's business, the
changes are believed to have had some adverse effect on results of operations
since inception.
 
 Regulation and Taxes
 
  As stated above, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by the
Nevada Gaming Authorities. The Company will also be subject to regulation,
which may or may not be similar to that in Nevada, by the appropriate
authorities in any other jurisdiction where the Company may conduct gaming
activities in the future. Changes in applicable laws or regulations could have
an adverse effect on the Company.
 
  The gaming industry represents a significant source of tax revenues to the
State of Nevada and Clark County. From time to time, federal and state
legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax law, or in the
administration of such law, affecting the gaming industry. Recent proposals
have included a federal gaming tax and increases in state or local gaming
taxes. They have also included limitations on the federal income tax
deductibility of the cost of furnishing certain complimentary promotional
items to customers, as well as various measures which would require tax
withholding on amounts won by customers. It is not possible to determine with
certainty the likelihood of possible changes in tax law or in the
administration of such law. Such changes, if adopted, could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial results.
 
 Competition
 
  The hotel industry is highly competitive. Hotels located on or near the
strip ("Strip Hotels") compete primarily with other Strip Hotels and with a
few major hotels in downtown Las Vegas. Strip Hotels offering similar prices
compete with each other primarily on the basis of quality of rooms,
restaurants and facilities, entertainment offered, complimentary goods and
services given, credit limits and quality of personal attention offered to
guests and casino customers. The Company's hotel/casino operations also
compete with a large number of hotels and motels, and gaming facilities not
related to hotels or motels, located in and near Las Vegas. Some of the
Company's competitors may have greater resources, and as such place the
Company at a competitive disadvantage.
 
  According to the LVCVA, as of December 31, 1997, there were approximately
105,000 hotel and motel rooms in the Las Vegas area. In addition, the LVCVA
reports projects under construction and/or proposed for future development of
approximately 21,000 more hotel and motel rooms, including three themed
hotel/casino
 

 
properties currently under construction on the Strip north of Tropicana Avenue
and one major facility south of Tropicana Avenue. The Company cannot make any
prediction as to how many additional rooms will be constructed in Las Vegas.
The Company's future operating results could be adversely affected by excess
Las Vegas rooms and gaming capacity.
 
  In addition to competing with hotel/casino facilities elsewhere in Nevada
(i.e., the Reno/Lake Tahoe areas and the Laughlin area) and in Atlantic City,
the Company competes with hotel/casino facilities elsewhere in the world and
with state lotteries. Certain states are currently considering legalizing
casino gaming in specific geographic areas, and several other states have
recently legalized casino gaming. This growth has been driven by the expansion
of traditional land-based casino destinations and the continued development of
new riverboat and Native American reservation casinos throughout the United
States. Currently, some form of casino gaming is operating or is approved in
approximately 32 states. Elsewhere in North America, nearly all of the
Canadian provinces and territories offer some form of casino gaming. Legalized
casino gaming in other states could adversely affect the Company's activities
in Las Vegas, particularly if such legalization were to occur in areas close
to Nevada, such as California. Additionally, certain gaming operations are
conducted or have been proposed on federal Native American reservations,
including those located in the primary market to be served by MGM Grand Las
Vegas. In addition, with respect to group bookings, the Company's hotel/casino
facilities in Las Vegas also compete with hotels and resorts, which do not
include casinos, throughout the United States. See "Las Vegas Market."
 
AUSTRALIA OPERATIONS
 
 MGM Grand Australia
 
  On September 7, 1995, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, MGM
Grand Australia Pty Ltd., completed the acquisition of the MGM Grand Australia
in Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia. MGM Grand Australia is located on 18
acres of beachfront property next to the Arafura Sea on the north central
coast. The resort includes a public and private casino, 96 rooms, restaurants
and other facilities. Casino operations include approximately 32 table games,
360 slots and a keno lounge. The Company has positioned MGM Grand Australia as
a multi-faceted gaming/entertainment facility for the local market and as an
exclusive destination resort for international table game customers.
 
  Two casinos operate in the Northern Territory, including MGM Grand, Inc's
property in Darwin on the northern coast, and a small casino in Alice Springs
in the southern part of the Territory. Unlike the U.S., Australia has granted,
for the most part, regional casino monopolies in its provinces. Gaming
machines (i.e., slots or "poker machines") were installed in clubs and hotels
in the Northern Territory during 1996, and MGM Grand Australia will
effectively receive 22.0% of the revenues from these machines through 2005 in
the form of a tax rebate. Northern Territory Keno machines ("NT Keno") are
also being installed in pubs, hotels and clubs in the Northern Territory. NT
Keno is a territory-wide keno game that the Northern Territory Government has
licensed to MGM Grand Australia, whereby keno tickets are sold in pubs, hotels
and clubs throughout the Northern Territory. The pubs, hotels and clubs act as
agents on behalf of MGM Grand Australia and sell keno tickets in return for a
commission paid by MGM Grand Australia. NT Keno commenced operations on
October 30, 1996.
 
  The success of MGM Grand Australia will depend in part upon a balance of (i)
its ability to effectively serve the local community as well as (ii) its
ability to make efficient use of its strategic location to the South East
Asian gaming market. The Darwin International Airport is an average of 5.5
hours away from the major Asian cities. However, frequency of scheduled air
service is a limiting factor.
 
  There exist 12 casinos in Australia competing for the Far East Market.
Australian casinos operate under exclusive arrangements, which create a
regional monopoly for a fixed term. As such, Australian casinos do not compete
among themselves for the regional middle to low end players. However, Far East
premium players have become an increasingly important source of revenues. In
an effort to attract premium players, MGM Grand Australia completed a $15
million capital improvement program in June 1996, which included renovation of
all 96 rooms (including 16 suites), enhanced casino facilities, and additional
dining, entertainment and retail
 

 
amenities. Competition for the Far East premium player is increasing, as
evidenced by the gaming activity in Kuala Lumpur and Macao, the recent growth
in the number of casinos operating in Australia, and an increase in the
quantity of casino cruise ships. Due to the increasing competition and the
limitations on scheduled air service, the desired mixture of premium players
has not been attained at MGM Grand Australia, and as a result, the operating
margins have been lower than anticipated. MGM Grand Australia has therefore
revisited and revised its marketing efforts with an emphasis on the local
population and commenced a cost reduction program in an effort to strengthen
operating results.
 
 Australia Government Regulation
 
  The Northern Territory of Australia, like Nevada, has comprehensive laws and
regulations governing the conduct of gaming. MGM Grand Australia's operations
are subject to the Gaming Control Act of 1993 and regulations promulgated
thereunder (the "Northern Territory Law") and to the licensing and general
control of the Minister for Racing and Gaming (the "Minister"). MGM Grand
Australia Pty. Ltd. has entered into a Casino Operator's Agreement with the
Minister pursuant to which MGM Grand Australia was granted a license (the
"License") to conduct casino gaming on an exclusive basis through June 30,
2005, in the northern half of the Northern Territory (which includes Darwin,
its largest city, where MGM Grand Australia is located). The License provides
for good faith negotiations to reach agreement on an extension of the License.
The License provides for a tax payable to the Northern Territory Government on
gross profits derived from gaming, including gaming devices. The License is
not exclusive with respect to gaming devices, and the Minister may permit such
devices to be placed in limited numbers in locations not operated by MGM Grand
Australia. However, under the License, a portion of the operators' win on such
gaming devices is to be offset against gaming tax otherwise payable by MGM
Grand Australia.
 
  The License may be terminated if MGM Grand Australia breaches the Casino
Operator's Agreement or the Northern Territory Law or fails to operate in
accordance with the requirements of the License. The Northern Territory
authorities have the right under the Northern Territory Law, the Casino
Operator's Agreement and the License to monitor and approve virtually all
aspects of the conduct of gaming by MGM Grand Australia.
 
  Additionally, under the terms of the License, the Minister has the right to
approve the directors and corporate secretary of the Company and its
subsidiaries which own or operate MGM Grand Australia, as well as changes in
the ownership or corporate structure of such subsidiaries. The Company is
required to file with the Northern Territory authorities copies of all
documents required to be filed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries with
the Nevada Gaming Authorities. In the event of any person becoming the
beneficial owner of 10% or more of the outstanding stock of the Company, the
Minister must be so notified and may investigate the suitability of such
person. If the Minister determines such person to be unsuitable and following
such determination such person remains the beneficial owner of 10% or more of
the Company's stock, that would constitute a default under the License.
 
NEW JERSEY PROJECT
 
 MGM Grand Atlantic City
 
  The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, MGM Grand Atlantic City,
Inc., intends to create a destination resort hotel/casino in Atlantic City
("MGM Grand Atlantic City"), that management believes will be larger and more
elaborate than any other facility currently in existence in that market. The
Company intends to use similar entertainment themes from MGM Grand Las Vegas
at MGM Grand Atlantic City, and plans to offer a wide array of gaming and non-
gaming amenities to its prospective customers. The Company's plans for MGM
Grand Atlantic City also include the development of retail and food and
beverage facilities. The Company believes that the development of MGM Grand
Atlantic City could cost in excess of $700 million, and that the development
could take up to three years following the successful acquisition of land
necessary to complete the project. The design, budget and schedule for
development of the project are at a preliminary stage, and will be subject to
the risks attendant to large-scale projects and may be subject to additional
costs and delays beyond
 

 
preliminary estimates. No assurance can be given that the Company will develop
a hotel/casino in Atlantic City, or if it does, as to its ultimate size,
configuration or cost. Any development or operation in Atlantic City will be
subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals. On July 24, 1996, the Company
was found suitable for licensing by the New Jersey Casino Control Commission.
 
 Atlantic City Market
 
  Atlantic City is, after Las Vegas, the second largest gaming destination in
the United States. The Company believes that it has the potential to
successfully expand its domestic base through developing and operating a
destination resort in Atlantic City. Management believes that Atlantic City
represents an attractive market for additional development due to its
proximity to areas with favorable demographics, including a large population
base with a high level of disposable income. The Atlantic City market
currently consists of 12 hotel/casinos which as of December 31, 1997 had
11,360 rooms, 1,036,705 square feet of casino space, 35,206 slot machines and
1,484 table games. According to the Atlantic City Department of Planning and
Development (the "ACDPD"), more than 58 million people (approximately 23.5% of
the United States population) live within 300 miles of Atlantic City, and more
than 17.8 million people live within 100 miles of Atlantic City. Most of the
Atlantic City visitors are "day-trippers," but there are a substantial number
of overnight visitors, who are believed to have a higher gaming budget. The
Company believes that the overnight visitor component will increase
substantially as destination resorts and "must see" attractions such as the
proposed MGM Grand Atlantic City make Atlantic City a more exciting and
appealing attraction for the middle and high-end gaming customer.
 
  The Atlantic City gaming market has demonstrated continued growth despite
the recent proliferation of new gaming venues across the country. The 12
hotel/casinos in Atlantic City generated approximately $3.91 billion in gaming
revenues in 1997, a 2.6% increase over 1996 gaming revenues of approximately
$3.81 billion. From 1990 to 1997, total annual gaming revenues in Atlantic
City increased 32.1%, while hotel rooms increased only approximately 28.9%
during this period.
 
  The regulatory environment in Atlantic City has improved significantly over
the last several years. New games, such as poker and keno, have been approved,
24-hour gaming has been permitted, registration of hotel employees has been
eliminated, license terms have been extended, and various operational
requirements have been relaxed. These regulatory changes have resulted in
reduced costs for the operators and created a more varied and attractive
environment for the gaming customer. Management believes that the reforms will
serve to permit future reductions in operating expenses of casinos in Atlantic
City and to increase the funds available for additional infrastructure
development through the New Jersey Casino Redevelopment Authority ("CRDA").
Due principally to an improved regulatory environment, general improvements of
economic conditions and high occupancy rates, a majority of the Atlantic City
hotel/casinos have recently expanded, are in the process of expanding or have
announced plans to expand their facilities. In late 1996, other gaming
companies entered the Atlantic City market by acquiring hotel/casino
facilities. In addition, some companies have entered into an agreement with
Atlantic City for the development of the "H-Tract," a 170-acre site in the
Atlantic City Marina. Management believes that these increases in hotel/casino
capacity, together with infrastructure improvements, and community
revitalization programs, will be instrumental in stimulating future revenue
growth in the Atlantic City market and increasing its appeal as a destination
resort.
 
  In addition to the planned casino expansions, major infrastructure
improvements have been proposed or have begun. These improvements include,
among other projects, new housing and retail development, a tunnel connecting
the Atlantic City Expressway to the Marina, and a new $254 million Convention
Center which opened in May 1997. The CRDA is currently overseeing the
development of the "tourist corridor" that will link the Convention Center
with the Boardwalk and will, when completed, feature approximately 500,000
square feet of exhibit and pre-function space, meeting rooms, food-service
facilities and a 1,600 car underground parking garage. The new convention
center will be the largest exhibition space between New York and Washington
D.C.
 

 
 New Jersey Government Regulation
 
  The ownership and operation of hotel/casino facilities and gaming activities
in Atlantic City, New Jersey are subject to extensive state regulation under
the New Jersey Control Act (the "New Jersey Act") and the regulations
("Regulations") of the New Jersey Casino Control Commission (the "New Jersey
Commission") and other applicable laws. In order to operate a hotel/casino
facility in New Jersey, MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc. must obtain a license
from the New Jersey Commission and obtain numerous other licenses, permits or
approvals from other state as well as local governmental authorities. The New
Jersey Act also established the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement (the
"New Jersey Division") to investigate all license applications, enforce the
provisions of the New Jersey Act and Regulations and prosecute all proceedings
for violations of the New Jersey Act and Regulations before the New Jersey
Commission.
 
  The New Jersey Commission has broad discretion regarding the issuance,
renewal, revocation and suspension of casino licenses. The New Jersey Act and
Regulations concern primarily the good character, honesty, integrity and
financial stability of casino licenses, their intermediary and holding
companies, their employees, their security holders and others financially
interested in casino operations; financial and accounting practices used in
connection with casino operations; rules of games, levels of supervision of
games and methods of selling and redeeming chips; manner of granting credit,
duration of credit and enforceability of gaming debts; and distribution of
alcoholic beverages.
 
  The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc., has
applied to be licensed by the New Jersey Commission to operate a casino, and
the Company has applied to be approved as a qualified holding company. On July
24, 1996, the Company and MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc., and their then
officers, directors, and 5% or greater shareholders were found suitable for
licensing by the New Jersey Commission. These findings of suitability are
subject to review and revision by the New Jersey Commission based upon a
change in any material fact that is relevant to the findings.
 
  The New Jersey Act further provides that each person who directly or
indirectly holds any beneficial interest or ownership of the securities issued
by a casino licensee or any of its intermediary or holding companies, those
persons who, in the opinion of the New Jersey Commission, have the ability to
control the casino licensee or its intermediary or holding companies or elect
a majority of the board of directors of said companies, other than a banking
or other licensed lending institution which makes a loan or holds a mortgage
or other lien acquired in the ordinary course of business, lenders and
underwriters of said companies are required to be qualified by the New Jersey
Commission. However, with respect to a publicly traded holding company such as
the Company, a waiver of qualification may be granted by the New Jersey
Commission, with the concurrence of the Director of the New Jersey Division,
if the New Jersey Commission determines that said persons or entities are not
significantly involved in the activities of MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc. and
in the case of security holders, do not have the ability to control the
Company or elect one or more of its directors. There exists a rebuttable
presumption that any person holding 5% or more of the equity securities of a
casino licensee's intermediary or holding company or a person having the
ability to elect one or more of the directors of such a company has the
ability to control the company and thus must obtain qualification from the New
Jersey Commission.
 
  Notwithstanding this presumption of control, the New Jersey Act provides for
a waiver of qualification for passive "institutional investors," as defined by
the New Jersey Act, if the institutional investor purchased publicly traded
securities for investment purposes only and where such securities constitute
(i) less than 10% of the equity securities of a casino licensee's holding or
intermediary company or (ii) debt securities of a casino not exceeding 20% or
(iii) a percentage of any issue of the outstanding debt of such company not
exceeding 50%. The waiver of qualification is subject to certain conditions
including, upon request of the New Jersey Commission, filing a certified
statement that the institutional investor has no intention of influencing or
affecting the affairs of the issuer, except that an institutional investor
holding voting securities shall be permitted to vote on matters put to a vote
of the holders outstanding voting securities. Additionally, a waiver of
qualifications may also be granted to institutional investors holding a higher
percentage of securities of a casino licensee's holding or intermediary
company upon a showing of good cause.
 

 
  The New Jersey Act requires the certificate of incorporation of a publicly
traded holding company to provide that any securities of such corporation are
held subject to the condition that if a holder is found to be disqualified by
the New Jersey Commission pursuant to the New Jersey Act, such holder shall
dispose of his interest in such company. Accordingly, the Company amended its
Certificate of Incorporation to provide that a holder of the Company's
securities must dispose of such securities if the holder is found disqualified
under the New Jersey Act. In addition, the Company amended its Certificate of
Incorporation to provide that the Company may redeem the stock of any holder
found to be disqualified.
 
  If the New Jersey Commission should find a security holder to be unqualified
to be a holder of securities of a casino licensee or holding company, not only
must the disqualified holder dispose of such securities but in addition,
commencing on the date the New Jersey Commission serves notice upon such a
company of the determination of disqualification, it shall be unlawful for the
disqualified holder (i) to receive any dividends or interest upon any such
securities, (ii) to exercise, directly or through any trustee or nominee, any
right conferred by such securities, or (iii) to receive any remuneration in
any form from the licensee for services rendered or otherwise. If the New
Jersey Commission should find a security holder to be unqualified to be a
holder of securities of a casino licensee or holding company, the New Jersey
Commission shall take any necessary action to protect the public interest
including the suspension or revocation of the casino license except that if
the disqualified person is the holder of securities of a publicly traded
holding company, the New Jersey Commission shall not take action against the
casino license if (i) the holding company has the corporate charter provisions
concerning divestiture of securities by disqualified owners required by the
New Jersey Act, (ii) the holding company has made good faith efforts including
the pursuit of legal remedies to comply with any order of the New Jersey
Commission, and (iii) the disqualified holder does not have the ability to
control the company or elect one or more members of the company's board of
directors.
 
  If, after licensure, the New Jersey Commission determines that the MGM Grand
Atlantic City, Inc. has violated the New Jersey Act or Regulations, or if any
security holder of the Company or MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc. who is
required to be qualified under the New Jersey Act is found to be disqualified
but does not dispose of the securities, MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc. could be
subject to fines or its license could be suspended or revoked. If MGM Grand
Atlantic City, Inc.'s license is revoked after issuance, the New Jersey
Commission could appoint a conservator to operate and to dispose of any
hotel/casino facilities of MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc. Net proceeds of a
sale by a conservator and net profits of operations by a conservator (at least
up to an amount equal to a fair return on MGM Grand Atlantic City, Inc.'s
investment which is reasonable for casinos or hotels) would be paid to the
Company.
 
  The New Jersey Act imposes an annual tax of eight percent on gross casino
revenues (as defined in the New Jersey Act). In addition, casino licensees are
required to invest one and one-quarter percent of gross casino revenues for
the purchase of bonds to be issued by the Casino Reinvestment Development
Authority or make other approved investments equal to that amount. In the
event the investment requirement is not met, the casino licensee is subject to
a tax in the amount of two and one-half percent on gross casino revenues. The
New Jersey Commission has established fees for the issuance or renewal of
casino licenses and casino hotel alcoholic beverage licenses and an annual
license fee on each slot machine.
 
  In addition to compliance with the New Jersey Act and Regulations relating
to gaming, any facility built in Atlantic City by MGM Grand Atlantic City,
Inc. or any other subsidiary of the Company must comply with the New Jersey
and Atlantic City laws and regulations relating to, among other things, the
Coastal Area Facilities Review Act, construction of buildings, environmental
considerations, and the operation of hotels.
 
DETROIT PROJECT
 
 MGM Grand Detroit
 
  The recently enacted Michigan Gaming Control and Revenue Act (the "Michigan
Act") provides that not more than three casinos may be licensed by the State
of Michigan ("Michigan") and that they be located only in the City of Detroit
("Detroit"). In November 1997, at the conclusion of a competitive selection
process, the Mayor of Detroit, Dennis Archer, designated MGM Grand Detroit,
L.L.C. ("MGM Grand Detroit") to develop
 

 
one of the three authorized hotel and casino complexes. MGM Grand Detroit,
Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, will hold a controlling
interest in MGM Grand Detroit and plans to provide a majority of the equity
capital. A minority interest will be held by Partners Detroit, LLC, a Michigan
limited liability company owned by ten individual residents of the Detroit
metropolitan area. As planned, the Detroit project is expected to include a
100,000 square foot casino, an 800 room hotel with ballroom, convention and
meeting rooms, restaurants, bars, entertainment and retail facilities. The
total project cost could exceed $700 million and development could take up to
three years following issuance of building permits. On March 12, 1998, MGM
Grand Detroit, LLC entered into a development agreement with the City of
Detroit and its Economic Development Corporation. The agreement is subject to
a number of conditions, including: (i) approval of the development agreement
by the Detroit City Council and adoption of an ordinance approving casino
gaming; (ii) acquisition by MGM Grand Detroit of a suitable development site;
and (iii) a finding by the Michigan Gaming Control Board that MGM Grand
Detroit is suitable for licensing. The design, budget and schedule for
development of the project are at a preliminary stage, and will be subject to
the risks attendant to large-scale projects and may be subject to additional
costs and delays beyond preliminary estimates. No assurance can be given that
the Company will develop a hotel/casino in Detroit, or if it does, as to its
ultimate size, configuration or costs.
 
 Detroit Market
 
  An assessment prepared by third party consultants for the Company concludes
that the Detroit, Michigan and Windsor, Ontario casino gaming markets are
effectively one market, and that aggregate annual revenues of approximately
$1.1 billion will be generated by patrons living within 150 miles of downtown
Detroit. It is anticipated that the market will be divided among the three
casinos to be licensed under the Michigan Act and a fourth casino which is
currently under construction in Windsor, Ontario. The Company anticipates that
all four casinos will have roughly comparable gaming areas.
 
 Michigan Government Regulation and Taxation
 
  The Michigan Act subjects the ownership and operation of casino gaming
facilities to extensive state licensing and regulatory requirements. The
Michigan Act also authorizes local regulation of casino gaming facilities by
Detroit, provided that any such local ordinances regulating casino gaming are
consistent with the Michigan Act and rules promulgated to implement it.
 
  The Michigan Act creates the Michigan Gaming Control Board (the "MGCB") and
authorizes it to grant casino licenses to not more than three applicants who
have entered into development agreements with Detroit. The MGCB is granted
extensive authority to conduct background investigations and determine the
suitability of casino license applicants, affiliated companies, officers,
directors, or managerial employees of applicants and affiliated companies and
persons or entities holding a one percent or greater direct or indirect
interest in an applicant or affiliated company. Institutional investors
holding less than certain specified amounts of debt or equity securities are
exempted from meeting the suitability requirements of the Michigan Act,
provided such securities are issued by a publicly traded corporation, such as
the Company, and the securities were purchased for investment purposes only
and not for the purpose of influencing or affecting the affairs of the issuer.
 
  The Michigan Act imposes the burden of proof on the applicant for a casino
license to establish its suitability to receive and hold the license. The
applicant must establish its suitability as to integrity, moral character and
reputation, business probity, financial ability and experience,
responsibility, and other criteria deemed appropriate by the MGCB. A casino
license is valid for a period of one year and the MGCB may refuse to renew it
upon a determination that the licensee no longer meets the requirements for
licensure.
 
  The MGCB may, among other things, revoke, suspend or restrict a casino
license. Substantial fines or forfeiture of assets for violations of gaming
laws or rules may also be levied against a casino licensee. In the event that
a casino license is revoked or suspended for more than 120 days, the Michigan
Act provides for the appointment of a conservator who, among other things, is
required to sell or otherwise transfer the assets of the
 

 
casino licensee or former licensee to another person or entity who meets the
requirements of the Michigan Act for licensure.
 
  The MGCB recently approved administrative rules (the "Proposed Rules") to
implement the terms of the Michigan Act. The Proposed Rules are currently
being reviewed by the Governor's Office of Regulatory Reform and the
Legislative Services Bureau of the Michigan Legislature for certification.
After certification, they were submitted to the Joint Rules Committee of the
Michigan Legislature for review and approval. The Proposed Rules are subject
to modification at any time prior to their final adoption by the MGCB.
 
  The Detroit City Council is considering the adoption of an ordinance which
would provide for periodic reporting by the three licensed casino operators to
the City Council and procedures whereby the City Council would determine
compliance by the operators with various commitments made by them in their
respective development agreements and report its findings to the MGCB in
connection with the annual license renewal process. While the legal effect of
any such determination is unclear, it is anticipated that certain material
breaches by an operator of its development agreement could ultimately result
in revocation or non-renewal of its casino license by the MGCB.
 
  The Michigan Act effectively provides that each of the three casinos in
Detroit shall pay a wagering tax equal to 18% of its adjusted gross receipts,
to be paid 8.1% to Michigan and 9.9% to Detroit, a municipal services fee
equal to the greater of $4 million or 1.25% of adjusted gross receipts of each
casino to be paid to Detroit to defray its cost of hosting casinos and an
annual assessment (as adjusted based upon a consumer price index) in the
initial amount of approximately $8.3 million to be paid by each casino to
Michigan to defray its regulatory enforcement and other casino-related costs.
These are in addition to the taxes, fees, and assessments customarily paid by
business entities situated in Detroit.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  As of December 31, 1997, the Company and its subsidiaries employed
approximately 6,555 full-time equivalent employees at the MGM Grand Las Vegas
and its corporate offices. Effective December 1, 1996, MGM Grand Las Vegas and
the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 501 finalized a
collective bargaining agreement, running through December 1, 2001, covering
approximately 90 facilities and maintenance employees. On November 13, 1997,
MGM Grand Las Vegas finalized a collective bargaining agreement with the Local
Joint Executive Board of Las Vegas, on behalf of the Hotel Employees
Restaurant Employee International Union, Local 226 and the Bartenders Union,
Local 165 as the exclusive bargaining representative of approximately 2,800
employees, running through December 12, 2000.
 
  As of December 31, 1997, MGM Grand Australia employed approximately 350
full-time equivalent employees. Hourly employees are covered by collective
bargaining agreements.
 
  As of December 31, 1997, NYNY employed approximately 2,060 full-time
equivalent employees; operations of NYNY commenced on January 3, 1997. As of
December 31, 1997, approximately 830 of NYNY's employees were covered by
collective bargaining agreements.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company's principal executive offices are located at 3799 Las Vegas
Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109, where it rents approximately 8,800
square feet from MGM Grand Las Vegas.
 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas' principal executive offices are also located at 3799
Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada, 89109. Certain other office and
warehouse space is leased by MGM Grand Las Vegas consisting of approximately
132,000 square feet located in Las Vegas, Nevada, for an annual rent of
approximately $525,000.
 
 

 
  MGM Grand Las Vegas is located on approximately 114 acres on the Strip in
Las Vegas, Nevada. The property is subject to a first priority deed of trust
securing bank financing of up to $1.25 billion, on which there were no amounts
outstanding as of December 31, 1997, which bears interest based on LIBOR or
the bank reference rate, and which is due December 2002. The property is also
subject to a first priority deed of trust with respect to $500 million in
senior collateralized notes (secured on a pari passu basis with the bank
financing) issued on February 2, 1998 and February 6, 1998, in tranches of
$300 million and $200 million and are due February 1, 2005 and February 6,
2008, respectively.
 
  In January 1995, the Company contributed an 18-acre site, located at the
intersection of the Strip and Tropicana Avenue to the Company's New York-New
York joint venture (See Item 1. Business). This property, together with an
adjacent two-acre parcel, are subject to a first priority deed of trust
securing bank financing up to $285 million, of which $245.1 million was
outstanding as of December 31, 1997, and which bears interest based on the
bank prime rate, federal funds rate or LIBOR rate, and is due December 2001.
 
  MGM Grand Australia's principal executive offices are located at Gilruth
Avenue, Mindil Beach, Darwin, Northern Territory 0801 Australia. In September
1995, the Company acquired MGM Grand Australia which is located on an 18-acre
beach front site on the north central coast of Australia (See Item 1.
Business). This property is subject to a first priority deed of trust securing
bank financing of up to approximately $58 million, which bears interest based
on the Australian bank bill rate and is due December 2000.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  On April 5, 1996, a lawsuit was filed in the Superior Court of California,
County of Los Angeles by Sheldon Gordon and Randy Brant against the Company.
The suit alleges that the Company breached an oral joint venture agreement to
have real estate developers Gordon/Brant design and develop a retail and
entertainment center at the portion of MGM Grand Las Vegas which fronts the
Strip. Plaintiffs claim the alleged oral agreement was formed on essentially
the terms set forth in an earlier letter which provided it could not be relied
upon for any reason, and that no binding agreement would exist until an
Operating Agreement had been duly executed by the Company. They are suing for
$350,000 in costs advanced in anticipation of the project being constructed,
as well as damages of approximately $100 million from lost profits that would
have resulted upon completion, and damage to their reputations. Management
believes that the claims are wholly without merit and does not expect that the
lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations. On July 8, 1996, the jurisdiction of the
lawsuit was transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada.
On June 13, 1997, the Company filed a motion for summary judgment on the
grounds that no enforceable contract exists between the parties. As of
December 31, 1997, the motion for summary judgment still was pending before
the court.
 
  A subsidiary of the Company is a defendant in an adversary proceeding
against MGM Dist. Inc., (formerly MGM Desert Inn, Inc.), pending in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Central District of California. The adversary
complaint, which was filed on December 12, 1997, alleges that the debtor, Ken
Mizuno, transferred approximately $1.1 million to MGM Desert Inn, Inc. in 1988
and 1989, in payment of casino debts of various individuals. The complaint
alleges these transfers were fraudulent conveyances and seeks damages against
the Company in an amount not less than approximately $1.1 million. The Company
answered the complaint on January 30, 1998, denying the allegations thereof
and asserting the complaint failed to state a claim upon which relief could be
granted. Also on January 30, 1998, the Company filed a motion to transfer
venue to the United States Bankruptcy Court in the District of Nevada. On
February 12, 1998, the Plaintiff indicated his intent to file an amended
adversary complaint asserting that Mr. Mizuno's payment of his own casino debt
at the Desert Inn in the approximate amount of $20 million also constituted a
fraudulent conveyance. The Company intends to vigorously defend this action.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
         None.
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  J. TERRENCE LANNI (age 55) has served as Chairman of the Company since July
1995, Chairman of the Executive Committee and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company since June 1995. He also served as President of the Company from June
1995 to July 1995. Prior thereto, he was President and Chief Operating Officer
of Caesars World, Inc. from April 1981 to February 1995.
 
  ALEX YEMENIDJIAN (age 42) has served as President of the Company since July
1995, as Chief Operating Officer of the Company since June 1995, and as Chief
Financial Officer of the Company from May 1994 to January 1998. He also served
as Executive Vice President of the Company from June 1992 to July 1995, as
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Company from January 1991 to June
1992, and as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from March
1990 to January 1991. He also served as an executive of Tracinda from January
1990 to January 1997.
 
  FRED BENNINGER (age 81) has served as Vice Chairman of the Board of the
Company since April 1995. He was Chairman of the Board of the Company from
August 1987 to April 1995. He also served as President of the Company from
August 1987 to March 1990 and as Chief Executive Officer of the Company from
August 1987 to January 1991.
 
  JAMES J. MURREN (age 36) has served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company since January 1998. For the five years prior
thereto, most recently serving as Managing Director and Co-Director of
research for Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
 
  SCOTT LANGSNER (age 44) has served as Secretary/Treasurer of the Company
since July 1987.
 
  EDWARD J. JENKINS (age 53) has served as Vice President of the Company since
October 1995. From July 1992 to October 1995, he served as Vice President,
Security, for Caesars World, Inc. He previously was a 30-year veteran of the
FBI, holding various management positions at Bureau offices throughout the
United States.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
        The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
        For price information with respect to such Common Stock, see Exhibit
        13 hereto, which is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
        As of March 12, 1998, there were approximately 3,063 record holders of
        the Company's Common Stock.
 
        The Company has not paid any dividends to date on the Common Stock.
        The declaration of dividends (which is within the discretion of the
        Company's Board of Directors) will depend on the earnings, financial
        position and capital requirements of the Company and other relevant
        factors existing at the time. See Exhibit 13 hereto, which is
        incorporated herein by this reference.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
        The information is set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto, which is
        incorporated herein by this reference.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
        The information is set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto, which is
        incorporated herein by this reference.
 
ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.
 
        Not applicable.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
        The consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and
        the consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and
        cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
        31, 1997, together with the Report of Independent Public Accountants,
        are contained in Exhibit 13 hereto and are incorporated herein by this
        reference.
 
ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
        None.
 

 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
         Information called for by PART III (Items 10, 11, 12, and 13) has
         been omitted, as the Company intends to file with the Securities and
         Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after the end of its
         fiscal year, a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to regulation 14A,
         except that the information regarding the Company's executive
         officers called for by Item 10 of PART III has been included in PART
         I of this Form 10-K under the heading "Executive Officers of the
         Registrant."
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
         (a) The financial statements for the Company are set forth in Exhibit
         13 hereto, which are incorporated herein by this reference. The
         financial schedule listed in the accompanying Index to Financial
         Statements at page 22 herein is filed as part of this Form 10-K.
 
         (b) Form 8-K filed on February 23, 1998.
 
         (c) Exhibits.
 
         The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index on Pages 25-26
         are filed as part of this Form 10-K.
 
         (d) The financial statements for the Company's Unconsolidated
         Affiliate are set forth in Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein
         by this reference.
 

 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          MGM GRAND, INC.
 
                                          By:     /s/ J. Terrence Lanni
                                            -----------------------------------
                                                     J. Terrence Lanni
                                               Chairman and Chief Executive
                                                          Officer
                                               (Principal Executive Officer)
 
                                          By:     /s/ Alex Yemenidjian
                                            -----------------------------------
                                                      Alex Yemenidjian
                                               President and Chief Operating
                                                          Officer
 
Dated: March 27, 1998
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 
 

 

 

 
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  (ITEM 14(a))
 

 
  All other schedules have been omitted either as inapplicable or not required
under the instructions contained in Regulation S-X, or because the information
is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto.
 

 
       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE
 
To The Board of Directors and Stockholders of MGM Grand, Inc.:
 
  We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the consolidated financial statements included in MGM Grand, Inc.'s Annual
Report to stockholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have
issued our report thereon dated January 28, 1998. Our audits were made for the
purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The
supplemental Schedule II as shown on page 24 is the responsibility of the
Company's management and is presented for purposes of complying with the
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and is not part of the basic
consolidated financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to the
auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic consolidated financial
statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the
financial data required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
 
                                          Arthur Andersen LLP
 
Las Vegas, Nevada
January 28, 1998
 

 
                        MGM GRAND, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996, AND 1995
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

 
                           EXHIBIT INDEX--(CONTINUED)
 

- --------
* Management contract or compensatory plan.
 

