
10-K
MELLVILLE CORPORATION FORM 10-K



                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, D.C.  20549

                              FORM 10-K

            ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

             For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993
                      COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-1011

                         MELVILLE CORPORATION
                         --------------------
        (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)


               NEW YORK                      04-1611460               
      ---------------------------   ------------------------------
       (STATE OF INCORPORATION)    (IRS EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)

                   ONE THEALL ROAD, RYE, NY  10580
                   --------------------------------
               (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:  (914) 925-4000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                         NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
TITLE OF EACH CLASS                       ON WHICH REGISTERED  
- -------------------                       ----------------------
COMMON STOCK (PAR VALUE
$1 PER SHARE)                              NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

4-7/8% CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED
DEBENTURES DUE JUNE 1, 1996                NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:  NONE

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL
REPORTS REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH
SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH
REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR
THE PAST 90 DAYS.  YES/X/  NO/_/

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO
ITEM 405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE
CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN THE DEFINITIVE
PROXY STATEMENT INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 
10-K, OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K.
YES (NO DISCLOSURES ARE CONTAINED HEREIN) /X/  NO /_/


                                           PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGE COVER PAGE 





AS OF MARCH 1, 1994, THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE VOTING STOCK*
HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES** WHICH WAS COMPUTED BY REFERENCE TO THE PRICE
AT WHICH THE STOCK WAS LAST TRADED WAS $3,996,104,076.

NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF THE ISSUER'S COMMON STOCK (PAR VALUE
$1 PER SHARE) AT MARCH 1, 1994: 105,351,156.


                 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.  ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
1993: PART I, ITEM 1; PART II, ITEMS 5, 6, 7 AND 8; AND PART IV, ITEM
14.

2.  PROXY STATEMENT DATED MARCH 14, 1994 ISSUED IN CONNECTION WITH
THE ANNUAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS:  PART III, ITEMS 10, 11, 12 AND
13.

 *   DOES NOT INCLUDE 6,498,514 OUTSTANDING SHARES OF SERIES ONE ESOP 
     CONVERTIBLE PREFERENCE STOCK ("ESOP PREFERENCE STOCK").  AS OF
     MARCH 1, 1994, EACH SHARE OF ESOP PREFERENCE STOCK IS ENTITLED
     TO ONE VOTE PER SHARE ON ALL MATTERS SUBMITTED TO A VOTE OF THE
     HOLDERS OF COMMON STOCK.

**   ONLY STOCK HELD BY DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS IS EXCLUDED.

                                             

                                     Page 2 of 2 page Cover Page



Item 1.  Business

        Melville Corporation, a New York corporation (in this Item 1
called the "Company"), is one of the largest diversified specialty
retailers in the United States.  On December 31, 1993, the Company,
through its subsidiaries (which together with the Company throughout
this Item 1 are collectively called the "Companies"), operated a total
of 7,282 retail stores and leased departments throughout the United
States, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Canada, the Czech
Republic and Slovakia.  During 1993 the Companies also manufactured
men's and women's footwear in two factories and furniture in five
factories.

        The Companies market products in chains of specialty retail
stores operating under various trade names.  Prescription drugs,
health and beauty aids are sold in chains of stores operated under the
"CVS", "Peoples", "Standard Drug" and "Austin Drug" trade names. 
Apparel and accessories are sold in chains of stores under the
"Marshalls", "Wilsons Suede & Leather", "Wilsons The Leather Experts",
"Bermans", "Bermans The Leather Experts", "Pelle Cuir", "Tannery
West", "Snyder Leather Outlets", "Georgetown Leather Design" and
"Bob's" trade names.  Footwear is sold in chains of stores operated
under the "FootAction USA", "FootAction For Kids", "Fan Club", "Thom
McAn" and "B.O.Q." trade names and in leased departments in Kmart
discount department stores and Pay Less Drug Stores.  Toy and hobby
products are sold in chains of stores operating under the "Kay-Bee
Toys", "Circus World", "K & K Toys", "Toy Works" and "Play Things"
trade names.  Domestics are sold in a chain of stores operated under 






the "Linens 'n Things" trade name.  Furniture is sold in a chain of
stores under the "This End Up" and "Wood's End" trade names.  

        In general, the retailing business is seasonal in nature with
each particular business of the Company affected, to varying degrees,
by certain peak selling periods.  The peak selling periods are
characterized by inventory build-ups prior to such periods.  The
build-ups are financed, in part, with the issuance of commercial paper
and bank loan participation notes, which are repaid from internally
generated funds.  To maintain financial flexibility, the Company also
has on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a shelf
registration statement for the issuance of up to $300 million in debt
securities, including medium term notes.  No debt securities have been
issued to date, and the Company does not currently have any plans to
issue such debt securities under this shelf registration because its
capital resources are sufficient to sustain current operations and
provide for future growth.

        The Christmas holiday is the most significant seasonal selling
period for the Company overall and the peak selling period for its toy
and leather apparel businesses.  The peak selling periods, other than
the Christmas holiday, for the Company's non-leather apparel and
footwear businesses coincide with the Easter holiday and the opening
of school in the fall.  Competition is based upon such 
factors as price, style, quality and design of product and the layout
and location of stores.









        The Company's principal office is located in Rye, New York. 
As of December 31, 1993, the Companies had approximately 111,000 full
and part-time associates.


                     BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

        The Company is principally a specialty retailer conducting
business in four major segments:

   -    Prescription drugs, health and beauty aids retailing.

   -    Apparel retailing, which includes men's and women's specialty
        and leather apparel, brand name and private label apparel for
        men, women and children.

   -    Footwear, which includes retailing of both discount and
        popular-priced shoes; retailing of brand name shoes and
        athletic footwear for men, women and children; and footwear
        manufacturing.

   -    Toys and household furnishings, which include retailing of
        toys, domestics and furniture (as well as furniture
        manufacturing).

        The financial information concerning industry segments
required by Item 101(b) of Regulation S-K is set forth on page 47 of
the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
December 31, 1993, and is incorporated herein by reference.


PRESCRIPTION DRUGS, HEALTH AND BEAUTY AIDS RETAILING

        On December 31, 1993, the Companies operated 1,284
prescription drugs, health and beauty aids stores in 15 states and the
District of Columbia under the names "CVS", "Peoples", "Standard Drug"
and "Austin Drug", 1,081 of which have pharmacies.  Net sales for 








these stores for 1993 represented approximately 38% of the Companies'
consolidated net sales.

        These stores are considered "destination" stores and are
located primarily in "strip" shopping centers and freestanding units. 
In the prescription drugs, health and beauty aids retailing business,
the Company counts itself among the largest retailers in terms of
number of stores in its primary marketing territories, which is the
mid-Atlantic and Northeast United States.  The monthly business
periodical entitled "Chain Drug Review" has ranked CVS fourth in
number of stores and fifth in dollar volume and among the top ten drug
store chains in the United States based upon dollar volume and store
count.  These stores also compete with general merchandise stores,
supermarkets and mail order pharmacies.


APPAREL RETAILING

        On December 31, 1993, the Companies operated 448 off-price
quality brand name family apparel stores in 40 states under the name
"Marshalls".  These stores are located primarily in "strip" shopping
centers in which Marshalls is an "anchor" tenant.  Marshalls' net
sales for 1993 represented approximately 25% of the Companies'
consolidated net sales.

        On December 31, 1993, the Companies operated 631 men's and
women's leather and suede apparel and accessory stores, which are
located primarily in regional shopping malls, in 45 states and the
District of Columbia under the names "Wilsons Suede & Leather",
"Wilsons The Leather Experts", "Tannery West", "Bermans The Leather 
Experts", "Bermans", "Snyder Leather Outlets", "Pelle Cuir" and 






"Georgetown Leather Design".  Net sales for 1993 in these stores
represented approximately 5% of the Companies' consolidated net sales.

        On December 31, 1993, the Companies operated 16 stores selling
casual clothing and footwear for the entire family under the name
"Bob's" principally in "strip" shopping centers located in
Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York and Rhode Island.  Net sales at
Bob's stores for 1993 represented approximately 2% of the Companies'
consolidated net sales.

        In the apparel retailing business, the Company believes it has
a significant presence in the markets for the products which it
carries; however, such products represent only a small portion of the
total apparel market.


FOOTWEAR

        On December 31, 1993, the Companies operated 2,771 leased
footwear departments, 391 stores under the names "FootAction USA",
"FootAction For Kids" and "Fan Club" and 337 stores under the names
"Thom McAn" and "B.O.Q.".  Collectively, these leased departments and
retail stores are located in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, the U.S.
Virgin Islands, the Czech Republic and Slovakia.

        Each of the leased departments is operated by the Company's
Meldisco division which sells footwear for the entire family.  All but
334 of the leased departments operated during the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1993 were located in Kmart discount department stores in
the United States, Puerto Rico, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. These
334 leased departments were located in Pay Less Drug Stores, which are







owned by Pay Less Drug Stores Northwest, Inc. ("Pay Less").

        Pursuant to an agreement between the Company and Kmart
Corporation ("Kmart" then known as S.S. Kresge Company) entered into
as of January 1, 1975, and an agreement between the Company and Pay
Less dated October 10, 1988, all license agreements relating to such
leased departments have terms of 25 years, subject to certain
performance standards.  Rental payments under all such license
agreements are based on a percentage of sales, with additional
payments to be made under certain of the license agreements with Kmart
based on profits.  The Company has a 51% equity interest, and Kmart
has a 49% equity interest, in all the subsidiaries which operate
leased departments in Kmart stores, with the exception of 42 such
subsidiaries in which the Company has a 100% equity interest.  The
Company has a 100% equity interest in all the subsidiaries which
operate leased departments in Pay Less Drug Stores.  Aggregate net
sales for 1993 of Meldisco leased departments represented
approximately 12% of the Companies' consolidated net sales.

        FootAction stores (including Fan Club stores operated as part
of the FootAction division) are located primarily in regional
shopping malls.  These stores specialize in brand name casual and
athletic footwear and related apparel for the entire family.
FootAction's net sales for 1993 represented approximately 3% of the
Companies' consolidated net sales.

        A majority of the Thom McAn stores are also located in regional
shopping malls and substantially all of such stores sell footwear and
related items for men and women.  Excluded from the operating results 






of the Thom McAn chain were stores designated to be closed or
redeployed under the Company's strategic realignment program announced
in 1992. Of the stores excluded, over 200 were closed or redeployed 
in 1993. Thom McAn's net sales for 1993 represented approximately 2%
of the Companies' consolidated net sales.

        The Companies' footwear retailing is primarily in the discount
and popular-price categories.  However, with the growth of its
FootAction division, the Company continues to increase its presence in
brand name casual and athletic footwear.  During 1993, substantially
all of the footwear, as well as all hosiery, handbags and accessories
sold in these stores, was purchased from unrelated third parties.

        In the footwear retailing business the Companies, through
their retail stores and leased departments, compete with footwear
chain store operators and many other types of footwear retailers, 
e.g., general merchandise stores, traditional department stores, mail 
order businesses and apparel stores.  According to research data
provided to the Company by Footwear Market Insights, a management
consulting and marketing research company specializing in footwear,
the seven largest footwear chain store and leased department operators
in the United States, ranked according to the number of pairs of
footwear sold and number of retail outlets, account for approximately 
40.1% of total footwear pair sales, and the Companies are among such
seven largest operators.








        Manufacturing

        As of December 31, 1993, the Company operated two factories in
the Southeast United States which produce shoes and contain facilities
for product development, product testing and quality control.  During
1993, the manufactured footwear represented an insignificant
percentage of the total footwear sold by the Companies.
The two factories which produce footwear for the Companies' retail
stores will be closed in 1994.  The costs associated with the shutdown
of the operations were provided for as a part of the strategic
realignment charge recorded in 1992.


TOYS AND HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS

        On December 31, 1993, the Companies operated 1,026 toy and
hobby stores in all 50 states and Puerto Rico under the names 
"Kay-Bee Toys", "Circus World", "K & K Toys", "Toy Works" and "Play
Things".  The "Kay-Bee Toys", "Circus World",  "Play Things" and
"K & K Toys" stores are located primarily in regional shopping malls. 
The "Toy Works" stores are located primarily in "strip" shopping
centers and freestanding units.  Excluded from operating results were
stores that the Company designated to close or not renew under its
strategic realignment program announced in 1992. Of the stores excluded,
over 70 were closed in 1993. Net sales in toy and hobby stores for
1993 represented approximately 9% of the Companies' consolidated net sales.

        On December 31, 1993, the Companies operated 143 quality brand
name linens, towels, bath and other household items stores, which are
located primarily in "strip" shopping centers in 27 states 






under the name "Linens 'n Things".  Linens 'n Things' net sales for
1993 represented approximately 3% of the Companies' consolidated net
sales.
        On December 31, 1993, the Companies operated 235 stores
retailing a distinctive line of casual crate-designed furniture and
coordinated accessories for residential and commercial use, located
primarily in regional shopping malls in 33 states and Canada, under
the names "This End Up", and "Wood's End".  Net sales of furniture for
1993 represented approximately 1% of the Companies' consolidated net
sales.

        In the toy retailing business, the Company is among the
largest toy and hobby chain store operators in the United States in
terms of sales, as well as number of retail outlets.  Based upon sales
volume, the business periodical "Discount Store News" has ranked
Kay-Bee among the top toy specialty chains in the United States.

        In the household furnishings retailing business, the Company
believes itself to be a significant factor in the markets for the
products which it carries.  Based on total revenues, This End Up has
been ranked by "Furniture Today", a weekly business periodical, among  
the top 25 furniture retailers in the United States.


        Manufacturing

        During 1993, the Company, through This End Up Furniture
Company, manufactured a distinctive line of casual furniture in five
factories located in the Southeast United States.  Approximately 99%
of the furniture manufactured is sold through the Company's This End
Up division.  The Company believes that these factories have the 







capacity to supply all of the sales volume requirements of its "This
End Up" and "Wood's End" retail stores and currently these factories
supply substantially all of such requirements.

        This End Up Furniture Company manufactures a large portion of
its furniture from southern yellow pine, which is in plentiful supply
in the Southeastern United States.  Southern yellow pine is a
renewable resource and most producers have reforestation programs in
effect.


ACQUISITIONS

        During 1993, the Company acquired 59 prescription drugs,
health and beauty aids stores, 31 leather apparel stores and 10 stores
selling branded athletic footwear and apparel.


DISPOSITIONS

        Effective May 17, 1993, the Company completed the sale of all
487 of its Chess King stores; effective May 29, 1993, the Company
completed the sale of all of its 103 Prints Plus stores, and  
effective October 16, 1993, the Company completed the sale of all of
its 114 Accessory Lady stores.  Net sales for each of these chains in
1993 through their date of disposition represented less than 1% of the
Companies' consolidated net sales.  

Item 2.  Properties

  The registrant and its subsidiaries lease various retail stores and
warehouse, plant and office facilities.  Most of these leases contain
initial terms ranging from 5 to 25 years and many have options for
extension beyond the initial term ranging from 5 to 15 years.  Retail
stores and office facilities are leased in nearly all cases.





  In the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, the registrant and its
subsidiaries operated fifty-three distribution centers, located in 18
states, containing an aggregate of approximately 10,106,000 square
feet.  All such distribution centers are leased with the exception of
sixteen distribution centers containing an aggregate of approximately
5,053,000 square feet which are owned by the registrant or one of its
subsidiaries.  Sixteen distribution centers (comprising approximately 
3,340,000 square feet) are used in the prescription drugs, health and
beauty aids business; ten distribution centers (comprising
approximately 3,356,000 square feet) are used in the apparel 
businesses; ten distribution centers (comprising approximately
1,923,000 square feet) are used in the footwear businesses; and
seventeen distribution centers (comprising approximately 1,487,000
square feet) are used in the toys and household furnishings
businesses.

        In the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, the registrant and
its subsidiaries operated seven factories, all of which are 
located in North Carolina.  Two are footwear factories, one with the
capacity to produce over 1,500,000 pairs of shoes annually.  (As
discussed above, these two factories will be closed in 1994).  Five
are furniture factories with the total capacity to produce
approximately 780,000 pieces of furniture annually.  The registrant or
one of its subsidiaries own all of such factories. 

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

        There are no material pending legal proceedings, other than
ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, to 





which the registrant or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which
any of its or their property is the subject.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

        There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders,
through solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ending December 31, 1993.


                 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        The following is included as an unnumbered item in Part I of
this report since the registrant did not furnish such information in
its definitive proxy statement dated March 14, 1994.

                                             Date           Date First
                                             Appointed      Appointed an
                                             to Present     Officer of
Name/Office              Age                 Office         the Registrant
- -----------              ---                 ----------     --------------
James E. Alward           50                  3/17/92          3/17/92
  Vice President

Norman Axelrod            41                  3/07/88          3/07/88    
  Vice President                                                       
  (President of
  Linens 'n Things)

Warren D. Feldberg        44                  10/18/91         10/18/91
  Vice President
  (Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer
  of Marshalls)

Michael A. Friedheim      50                  1/01/94          7/14/82
  Vice President
  (Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer of
  Bob's)

Philip C. Galbo           43                  8/01/89          8/01/89
  Treasurer   








                                     Date                Date First
                                     Appointed           Appointed an
                                     to Present          Officer of
Name/Office              Age         Office              the Registrant
- -----------              ---         ----------          --------------
Stanley P. Goldstein      59          1/01/87               4/13/71
  Chairman of the
  Board and Chief 
  Executive Officer

Thomas E. Harms           47          3/10/94               3/10/94
  Vice President

Robert G. House           47          9/11/91               9/11/91
  Vice President

Robert D. Huth            48          4/06/87               4/06/87
  Executive Vice
  President and Chief
  Financial Officer

Daniel B. Katz            48          2/19/91               3/12/86
  Senior Vice 
  President (President 
  of Melville Realty
  Company, Inc.)

William C. Kingsford      47          3/12/86               7/13/79
  Vice President

Jerald L. Maurer          51          1/01/94               1/01/94
  Senior Vice 
  President 

Larry A. McVey            52          3/14/84               3/14/84
  Vice President
  (President of
  Thom McAn)

John I. Mitchell, Jr.     54          10/12/88              10/12/88
  Vice President and
  Chief Information
  Officer

Ralph T. Parks            48          3/10/94               3/10/94
  Vice President
  (President of
  FootAction)

Jerald S. Politzer        48          10/09/91               6/21/89
  Executive Vice       
  President (Acting 
  President of Kay-Bee)








                                 Date           Date First
                                 Appointed      Appointed an
                                 to Present     Officer of
Name/Office               Age    Office         the Registrant
- -----------               ---    ----------     --------------
Shahid Quraeshi            45     7/13/88          7/13/88
  Vice President and
  Controller (Principal
  Accounting Officer)

Arthur V. Richards         55     9/13/89          4/12/77
  Vice President
  and Secretary

J. M. Robinson             47     7/13/88          7/13/88
  Vice President
  (President of Meldisco)

Harvey Rosenthal           51     1/01/94         10/17/84
  President and 
  Chief Operating
  Officer

Thomas M. Ryan             41     1/01/94          1/01/94
  Vice President
  (President and Chief
  Executive Officer
  of CVS)

Joel N. Waller             53     3/11/87          3/11/87
  Vice President
  (Chairman of Wilsons)


       In each case the term of office extends to the date of the
board of directors meeting following the next annual meeting of
shareholders of the registrant.  In addition to the office(s)
which they hold in the registrant as shown above, each of the
individuals listed (with the exception of Messrs. Harms, 
Kingsford, Maurer and House) hold various offices in certain
subsidiaries of the registrant.  Previous positions and
responsibilities held by each of the above officers with the
registrant and for each of the above officers who have not held





the same office(s) with the same responsibilities for more than
the past five years, are indicated below:

         James E. Alward - Director of Taxation (January, 1979 to 
                     Present) of the registrant.

         Warren D. Feldberg -  President (January, 1991 to November, 1991)
                      of Target Stores, a division of Dayton Hudson
                      Corporation, Executive Vice President (December, 1988
                      to January, 1991) of Target Stores, Senior Vice
                      President (March, 1988 to December, 1988) of Target
                      Stores.

         Michael A. Friedheim - Executive Vice President (February, 
                     1986 to January, 1994) of the registrant. 

         Philip C. Galbo - Assistant Treasurer (October, 1988 to July,
                     1989) of the registrant.

         Thomas E. Harms - Vice President Human Resources (July, 1993
                     to March, 1994) and Director Human Resources
                     (September, 1990 to July, 1993) of the CVS division
                     of the registrant; Director of Personnel of Marshall
                     Field's (August, 1988 to August, 1990).

         Robert G. House - Consultant (January, 1988 to July, 1991) Temple,
                     Barker & Sloane, general management consultants. 

         Daniel B. Katz - Vice President (March, 1986 to February, 1991) of
                     the registrant; President (March, 1978 to Present) of
                     Melville Realty Company, Inc., a subsidiary
                     of the registrant.

         Jerald L. Maurer - Corporate Vice President of Strategic Human
                     Resource Management of Aetna Life and Casualty
                     Company (January, 1992 to January, 1994); Vice
                     President of Human Resources (January, 1991 to
                     January 1992) of Medstat Systems, Inc.; Senior Vice
                     President of Human resources (1988 to January, 1990)
                     of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. 
           
         Ralph T. Parks - President of the FootAction division of the 
                     registrant (November, 1991 to Present); Executive
                     Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of 
                     FootAction, Inc. (March, 1987 to November, 1991).

         Jerald S. Politzer - Group Vice President (June, 1989 to 
                     October, 1991) of the registrant; President and Chief
                     Executive Officer (November, 1986 to June, 1989) of G.
                     Fox & Company, a division of The May Department Stores
                     Company.







         Arthur V. Richards - Secretary (April, 1977 to Present), General 
                     Counsel (September, 1989 to October, 1990) and General
                     Attorney (April, 1977 to September, 1989) of the
                     registrant.

         Harvey Rosenthal - President and Chief Executive Officer (October,
                     1984 to January, 1994) of the CVS division of the
                     registrant.

         Thomas M. Ryan - Executive Vice President (January, 1990 to
                     January, 1994) and Senior Vice President-Pharmacy
                     (January, 1988 to January, 1990) of the CVS division 
                     of the registrant.


                                  Part II

Item 5.  Market Price of and Dividends on the Registrant's
         Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters    

       The number of holders of the registrant's Common Stock, based upon
the number of record holders, was 7,600 as of December 31, 1993.  All other
information required by this item is included in the registrant's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1993 on pages 1 and
46 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

       The information required by this item is included in the
registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
1993 on page 48 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
         Financial Condition and Results of Operations

       The information required by this item is included in the
registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
1993 on pages 30 through 33 and is incorporated herein by reference.







Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

       The information required by this item is included in the
registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
1993 on pages 35 through 47, and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with
         Accountants on Accounting and 
         Financial Disclosure             

       During the registrant's two most recent fiscal years or any
subsequent interim period, no event occurred which would require disclosure
under this item.


                                  PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

       Information regarding the executive officers is furnished
under the heading "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE 
REGISTRANT" in Part I of this report since the registrant did not
furnish such information in its definitive proxy statement dated
March 14, 1994.

       The other information required by this item is included in
the registrant's definitive proxy statement dated March 14, 1994
on pages 1 through 3 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

       The information required by this item is included in the
registrant's definitive proxy statement dated March 14, 1994 on
pages 7 through 13 and is incorporated herein by reference.






Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain
        Beneficial Owners and Management

       The information required by this item is included in the
registrant's definitive proxy statement dated March 14, 1994 on pages 1 
through 5 and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
       No information is required to be reported by this item. 


                                  PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
        and Reports on Form 8-K                

       (a)  Documents filed as part of this report:

       l. and 2. Financial Statements and Financial Statement
Schedules.

       The consolidated financial statements of Melville
Corporation and its subsidiary companies incorporated herein by
reference to the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 1993 and the related consolidated
financial statement schedules are set forth in the index to 
consolidated financial statements and consolidated schedules on
page 26 hereof.

       3.  Exhibits

       (a) The Exhibits filed as part of this report are listed
below:







Exhibit
 Table
Number:
- -------
 3 (a)         Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended
                     as of April 18, 1990 (incorporated by reference
                     to Exhibit 3 filed with the registrant's
                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                     quarter ended June 30, 1990).

 3  (b)        By-Laws, as amended through December 8, 1993.

 4             No instrument which defines the rights of holders of
                     long and intermediate debt of the registrant 
                     and its subsidiaries is filed herewith pursuant
                     to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) other
                     than the June 23, 1989 amendment to the 
                     Restated Certificate of Incorporation defining 
                     the rights of the holders of the Series One 
                     ESOP Convertible Preference Stock (see above 
                     exhibit table number 3(a)).  The registrant
                     hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such 
                     instrument to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission upon request.


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

 10 (iii)(A)   (i)  1973 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit (10) (iii) (A) (i) to the
               registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended December 31, 1987).





Exhibit
 Table
Number:
- -------        (ii)  1987 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by 
                     reference to Exhibit (10) (iii) (A) (iii) to
                     the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                     the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987).

               (iii) 1989 Directors Stock Option Plan (incorporated
                     by reference to Exhibit B to the registrant's 
                     Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                     ended December 31, 1988).

               (iv)  Melville Corporation Omnibus Stock Incentive
                     Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to
                     the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                     the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989).

               (v)   Directors Retirement Plan (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit 10(iii)(A)(vi) to
                     registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                     for year ended December 31, 1992).

               (vi)  Profit Incentive Plan of Melville Corporation
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to
                     registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated
                     March 14, 1994).

 11            Statement re: Computation of Per Share Earnings.

 12            Statement re: Computation of Ratios.






Exhibit
 Table
Number:
- -------
 13            Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
                     December 31, 1993.  (Except for the portions
                     incorporated herein by reference, such report
                     is furnished for the information of the SEC and
                     is not deemed "filed" as part of this Form 10-K
                     report.)

 18            Letter re: Change in Accounting Principle.

 22            Subsidiaries of the registrant.




               (b)  No reports on Form 8-K were filed in the last
fiscal quarter ending December 31, 1993.





                                 SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                     MELVILLE CORPORATION

                                     By  /S/ ARTHUR V. RICHARDS         
                                        -------------------------------
                                           Arthur V. Richards
                                           Vice President and Secretary

March 30, 1994



Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has also been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


     Signature                          Title                  Date
     ---------                          -----                  ----
                               Chairman of the Board and
                               Director (Chief Executive
/S/ STANLEY P. GOLDSTEIN       Officer)                    March 28, 1994
- ----------------------------
(Stanley P. Goldstein)

                               Executive Vice
                               President and Director
/S/ ROBERT D. HUTH             (Chief Financial Officer)   March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Robert D. Huth)
                               Vice President and
                               Corporate Controller
                               (Principal Accounting
/S/ SHAHID QURAESHI            Officer)                    March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Shahid Quraeshi)


/S/ HYMAN L. BATTLE, JR.       Director                    March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Hyman L. Battle, Jr.)


/S/ ALLAN J. BLOOSTEIN         Director                    March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Allan J. Bloostein)



/S/ JOHN J. CREEDON            Director                    March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(John J. Creedon)










     Signature                       Title                   Date
     ---------                       -----                   ----
                               Vice President
/S/ MICHAEL A. FRIEDHEIM       and Director               March 29, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Michael A. Friedheim)


/S/ MICHAEL H. JORDAN          Director                   March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Michael H. Jordan)


/S/ TERRY R. LAUTENBACH        Director                   March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Terry R. Lautenbach)                                                   



/S/ THEODORE LEVITT            Director                   March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Theodore Levitt)



/S/ DONALD F. MCCULLOUGH       Director                   March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Donald F. McCullough)


/S/ FRANK MELVILLE             Director                   March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Frank Melville)

                               Executive Vice
                               President and Director     March __, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Jerald S. Politzer)                      
                                       
                               President, Chief
                               Operating Officer
/S/ HARVEY ROSENTHAL           and Director               March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Harvey Rosenthal)


/S/ IVAN G. SEIDENBERG         Director                   March 29, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Ivan G. Seidenberg)


/S/ PATRICIA CARRY STEWART     Director                   March 27, 1994
- -----------------------------
(Patricia Carry Stewart)


/S/ M. CABELL WOODWARD, JR.    Director                   March 28, 1994
- -----------------------------
(M. Cabell Woodward, Jr.)







                 MELVILLE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

           Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules


        The consolidated financial statements of Melville Corporation and
    Subsidiary Companies together with the report on such consolidated
    financial statements of KPMG Peat Marwick dated February 10, 1994,
    except as to the subsequent event note, which is as of March 1, 1994, 
    which appear on the pages listed below of the 1993 Annual Report to
    shareholders, are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
                                                            Page Number
                                                              in 1993
                                                           Annual Report
                                                          to Shareholders
                                                          ---------------
    Independent Auditors' Report .............................. 34
    Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years
        ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 ................ 35  
    Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31,
        1993 and 1992 ..........................................36-37
    Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'
        Equity for the years ended December 31, 1993,
        1992 and 1991 ..........................................38
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
        years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991 ...........39
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .................40-47

    Included in Part IV of this report:                         Page
    Consent of Independent Auditors                             ----
        for Melville Corporation
        and Subsidiary Companies ...............................F-1
    Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated
        Financial Statement Schedules of Melville Corporation 
        and Subsidiary Companies ...............................F-2
    Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules of Melville
          Corporation and Subsidiary Companies for the
          years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991:           
           V - Property, Plant and Equipment ...................S-1
          VI - Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization
                 of Property, Plant and Equipment ..............S-2
        VIII - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts ...............S-3
          IX - Short-Term Borrowings ...........................S-4
           X - Supplementary Consolidated Statements of 
                 Earnings Information ..........................S-5

           Schedules not included above have been omitted because they are
    not applicable or the required information is shown in the
    consolidated financial statements or related notes.






                                                                       S-1



                                                                         S-2


                                                                   Schedule VIII
                                                                   -------------
                MELVILLE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts


                   Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991

                            ($ in Thousands)




                                            Additions
                               Balance at   Charged to                Balance at
                               Beginning    Costs and                     End
          Description            of Year     Expenses    Deductions(1)  of Year
          ------------         -----------  -----------  ------------- ---------
 
Accounts Receivable:

 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts:

  Year Ended December 31, 1993   $  25,131   $  23,173   $  15,770    $  32,534 
                                  ========    ========    ========     ========

  Year Ended December 31, 1992   $  21,717   $  12,087   $   8,673    $  25,131 
                                  ========    ========    ========     ========

  Year Ended December 31, 1991   $  15,170   $  17,642   $  11,095    $  21,717 
                                  ========    ========    ========     ========


 (1) Write-offs, net of recoveries


                                                           S-3




                                                                      S-4


                                                                  Schedule X
                                                                  ----------


                 MELVILLE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

        Supplementary Consolidated Statement of Earnings Information          
                                                

                  Years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991

                               ($ in Thousands)




                          Amount Charged to Costs and Expenses




              Item                     1993           1992          1991
              ----                     ----           ----          ----      
                

 Taxes, other than payroll and
    income taxes                 $   113,922    $   108,536   $    101,762
                                     =======        =======        =======

 Advertising costs               $   174,297    $   154,839   $    131,092
                                     =======        =======        =======



 Amounts for maintenance and repairs, depreciation and amortization of
intangible assets, pre-opening costs and similar deferrals and royalties
are not presented as such amounts are less than 1% of sales.


                                           S-5


                            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Melville Corporation:

We consent to incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
Numbers 33-40251, 33-17181 and 2-97913 on Form S-8 and Numbers 33-62664 and
33-34946 on Form S-3 of Melville Corporation and subsidiary companies of our
report dated February 10, 1994, except as to the Subsequent Event note, which
is as of March 1, 1994, related to the consoldiated balance sheets of Melville
Corporations and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1993 and 1992,
and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity
and cash flows and related financial statement schedules for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1993, which reports
appear (or are incorporated by reference) in the December 31, 1993 annual
report on Form 10-K of Melville Corporation and subsidiary companies.

Our reports refer to the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards
Board's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers'
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," in 1992 and to a
change in the method of determining retail price indices used in the valuation
of LIFO inventories in 1993.


                                                  Very truly yours,


                                                  /s/KPMG PEAT MARWICK
                                                  KPMG Peat Marwick


New York, New York
March 30, 1994



                                          F-1



                              INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Melville Corporation:

Under date of February 10, 1994, except as to the Subsequent Event note,
which is as of March 1, 1994, we reported on the consolidated balance
sheets of Melville Corporation and subsidiary companies as of December 31,
1993 and 1992, and related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders'
equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 1993, as contained in the 1993 annual report to shareholders.
These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1993.
In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial
statements, we also have audited the related financial statement schedules
listed in the accompanying index. These financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statement schedules based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed on page 44 of the Annual Report to Stockholders, the Company
adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," in 1992. Also, as discussed on
page 41, the Company changed its method of determining retail price indices
used in the valuation of LIFO inventories in 1993.




                                                     /s/KPMG PEAT MARWICK
                                                     KPMG Peat Marwick



New York, New York
February 10, 1994, except as to the Subsequent Event note, which is as of
March 1, 1994


                                          F-2


                                   INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
Exhibit 
Table 
Number:
- --------- 
  3 (a)         Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as
                amended as of April 18, 1990 (incorporated by 
                reference to Exhibit 3 filed with the registrant's 
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter 
                     ended June 30, 1990).
 
* 3(b)          By-Laws, as amended through December 8, 1993.
 
  4                  No instrument which defines the rights of holders of long 
                and intermediate debt of the registrant and its 
                subsidiaries is filed herewith pursuant to Regulation 
                S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) other than the June 23, 
                1989 amendment to the Restated Certificate of 
                Incorporation defining the rights of the holders of 
                the Series One ESOP Convertible Preference Stock (see 
                above exhibit table number 3 (a)).  The registrant 
                hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such 
                instrument to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                upon request.





                     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

Exhibit 
Table 
Number :
- ------------ 
  10(iii)(A)     (i) 1973 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit (10)  (iii)  (A)  (i) to the 
                     registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal 
                     year ended December 31, 1987).

                (ii) 1987 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
                     Exhibit (10)  (iii)  (A)  (iii) to the registrant's
                     Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                     December 31, 1987).

               (iii) 1989 Directors Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
                     reference to Exhibit B to the registrant's 
                     Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 
                     December 31, 1988).

                (iv) Melville Corporation Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to the
                     registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                     year ended December 31, 1989).

                 (v) Directors Retirement Plan (incorporated by reference to
                     Exhibit 10 (iii) (A) (vi) to registrant's Annual Report
                     on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 1992).

                (vi) Profit Incentive Plan of Melville Corporation
                     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to registrant's
                     definitive Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1994).




Exhibit
Table
Number:
- -----------
* 11            Statement re: Computation of Per Share Earnings. 

* 12            Statement re: Computation of Ratios. 

* 13            Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended 
                     December 31, 1993. (Except for the portions 
                     incorporated herein by reference, such report is 
                     furnished for the information of the SEC and is not 
                     deemed "filed" as part of this Form 10-K report.) 

* 18            Letter re: Change in Accounting Principle. 

* 22            Subsidiaries of the registrant.







