10-K


c91569e10vk.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

e10vk

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED

DECEMBER 31, 2004

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER

1-9608

NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC.

(EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

DELAWARE

(State or other jurisdiction of

Incorporation or organization)

36-3514169

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification No.)

10 B Glenlake Parkway, Suite 600

Atlanta, Georgia

(Address of principal executive offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (770) 670-2232

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE

TITLE OF EACH CLASS

ON WHICH REGISTERED

Common Stock, $1 par value per share, and associated

New York Stock Exchange

Common Stock Purchase Rights

Chicago Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

T

No

£

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

£

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).

Yes

T

No

£

There were 274.8 million shares of the Registrant’s Common Stock outstanding (net of treasury
shares) as of January 31, 2005. The aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock (based
upon the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on June 30, 2004) beneficially owned by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $6,369.8 million. For purposes of the foregoing
calculation only, which is required by Form 10-K, the Registrant has included in the shares owned
by affiliates those shares owned by directors and officers of the Registrant, and such inclusion
shall not be construed as an admission that any such person is an affiliate for any purpose.

* * *

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held May 11, 2005.


PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

SUPPLEMENTARY ITEM — EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

SIGNATURES

EXHIBIT INDEX

Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Management Cash Bonus Plan

Forms of Stock Option Agreement and Restricted Stock Award Agreement under 2003 Stock Plan

Statement Re: Computation of Earning Per Share

Statement of Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges

Significant Subsidiaries of the Company

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP

302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer

302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer

906 Certification of Chief Executive Officer

906 Certification of Chief Financial Officer

Safe Harbor Statement

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

“Newell” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned
subsidiaries, as the context requires.

WEBSITE ACCESS TO SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION REPORTS

The Company’s Internet website can be found at

www.newellrubbermaid.com

. The Company makes
available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as
practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

GENERAL

The Company is a global manufacturer and full-service marketer of name-brand consumer products
serving the needs of volume purchasers, including department/specialty stores and warehouse clubs,
home centers and hardware stores, and office superstores and contract stationers. The Company’s
basic business strategy is to merchandise a multi-product offering of everyday consumer products,
backed by an obsession with customer service excellence and new product development, in order to
achieve maximum results for its stockholders. The Company’s multi-product offering consists of
name-brand consumer products in five business segments: Cleaning & Organization; Office Products;
Tools & Hardware; Home Fashions; and Other. The Company’s financial objectives are to achieve
above-average sales and earnings per share growth, maintain a superior return on investment and
maintain a conservative level of debt.

The Company’s six transformational strategic initiatives are as follows: Productivity,
Streamlining, New Product Development, Marketing, Strategic Account Management, and Collaboration.

Productivity is the initiative to reduce the cost of manufacturing a product by at least five
percent per year in order to become the best-cost supplier. Streamlining is the commitment to
reduce non-value added costs and cut out excess layers. New Product Development represents the
commitment to develop and introduce cutting-edge, innovative new products to the market and develop
best-cost products to meet end-user needs. The Marketing initiative represents the Company’s
commitment to transform from a “push” to “pull” marketing organization, focusing on the end-user.
The Strategic Account Management initiative represents the Company’s program to allocate resources
to those strategic retailers the Company believes will continue to grow in the future.
Collaboration is the Company’s initiative for the divisional operating units to work together and
maximize economies of scale and the use of best practices.

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis for a
discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

The Company’s reporting segments reflect the Company’s focus on building large consumer brands,
promoting organizational integration, achieving operating efficiencies and aligning the businesses
with the Company’s strategic account management strategy. The Company reports its results in five
reportable segments as follows:

Segment

Description of Products

Cleaning & Organization

Indoor/outdoor organization, storage, food storage, cleaning, refuse

Office Products

Ballpoint/roller ball pens, markers, highlighters, pencils, office products, art supplies

Tools & Hardware

Hand tools, power tool accessories, industrial tool accessories, manual paint

applicators, cabinet and window hardware, propane torches

Home Fashions

Drapery houseware, window treatments


Other

Operating segments that do not meet aggregation criteria, including
aluminum and

stainless steel cookware, glassware, hair care
accessory products, infant and juvenile

products, including toys,
high chairs, car seats, strollers

During 2004, the Company divested several businesses in the Home Fashions and Other operating
segments. Please refer to Footnote 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

CLEANING & ORGANIZATION

The Company’s Cleaning & Organization segment is conducted by the Rubbermaid Home Products,
Rubbermaid Foodservice Products, Rubbermaid Commercial Products, Rubbermaid Europe, Rubbermaid
Canada, and Rubbermaid Asia Pacific divisions. These divisions design, manufacture or source,
package and distribute indoor and outdoor organization, home storage, food storage and cleaning
products.

Rubbermaid Home Products, Rubbermaid Foodservice Products, Rubbermaid Commercial Products,
Rubbermaid Europe, Rubbermaid Canada, and Rubbermaid Asia Pacific primarily sell their products
under the Rubbermaid®, Brute®, Roughneck®, TakeAlongs®, Curver®, Blue Ice® and Stain Shield®
trademarks.

Rubbermaid Home Products, Rubbermaid Foodservice Products, Rubbermaid Europe, Rubbermaid Canada,
and Rubbermaid Asia Pacific market their products directly and through distributors to mass
merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores and hardware distributors, as well as regional
direct sales representatives and market-specific sales managers. Rubbermaid Commercial Products
markets its products directly and through distributors to commercial channels and home centers
using a direct sales force.

OFFICE PRODUCTS

The Company’s Office Products segment is conducted by the divisions of Sanford North America,
Sanford Europe, Sanford Latin America and Sanford Asia Pacific. Sanford North America primarily
designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase
markers, overhead projector pens, highlighters, wood-cased pencils, ballpoint pens and inks, office
products, and art supplies. It also distributes other writing instruments including roller ball
pens and mechanical pencils for the retail marketplace. Sanford Europe, Latin America and Asia
Pacific primarily design and manufacture, package and distribute ballpoint pens, wood-cased
pencils, roller ball pens and art supplies for the retail and distributor markets.

Office Products primarily sells its products under the trademarks Sanford®, Sharpie®, Paper Mate®,
Parker®, Waterman®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol®, Grumbacher®, Reynolds®, rotring®, uni-Ball® (used
under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America),
Expo®, Accent®, Vis-à-Vis®, Expresso®, Liquid Paper®, Mongol®, Foohy™, Prismacolor®, Eldon®, and
Sensa®.

Sanford North America markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants,
warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract
stationers, and hardware distributors, using a network of company sales representatives, regional
sales managers, key account managers and selected manufacturers’ representatives. Sanford Europe,
Latin America and Asia Pacific market their products directly to retailers and distributors using a
direct sales force.

TOOLS & HARDWARE

The Company’s Tools & Hardware segment is conducted by the following divisions: IRWIN North
America Power Tools & Accessories, IRWIN North America Hand Tools, IRWIN Latin America, IRWIN
Europe and Asia Pacific, LENOX, BernzOmatic, Shur-Line and Amerock. IRWIN North America Power
Tools & Accessories, IRWIN North America Hand Tools, IRWIN Latin America, IRWIN Europe and Asia
Pacific and LENOX manufacture and source, package and distribute hand tools and power tool
accessories. BernzOmatic manufactures and sources, packages and distributes propane torches and
accessories. Shur-Line manufactures and distributes manual paint applicator products. Amerock
manufactures or sources, packages and distributes cabinet hardware for the retail and O.E.M.
marketplace and window and door hardware for window and door manufacturers.


IRWIN North America Power Tools & Accessories, IRWIN North America Hand Tools, IRWIN Latin America
and IRWIN Europe and Asia Pacific primarily sell their products under the trademarks IRWIN®,
Vise-Grip®, Marathon®, Twill®, Hanson®, Speedbor®, Jack®, Quick-Grip®, Chesco®, Unibit®, Record®,
Marples®, and Strait-Line®. LENOX primarily sells its products under the LENOX® brand.
BernzOmatic primarily sells its products under the BernzOmatic® trademark. Shur-Line primarily
sells its products under the trademarks Shur-Line® and Rubbermaid®. Amerock primarily sells its
products under the trademarks Amerock®, Allison® and Ashland®.

IRWIN North America Power Tools & Accessories, IRWIN North America Hand Tools, IRWIN Latin America,
IRWIN Europe and Asia Pacific, LENOX, BernzOmatic, Shur-Line and Amerock market their products
directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, department/specialty stores,
hardware distributors, industrial/construction outlets, custom shops, select contract customers and
other professional customers, using a network of manufacturers’ representatives, as well as
regional account and market-specific sales managers.

HOME FASHIONS

The Company’s Home Fashions segment is conducted by the divisions of Levolor/Kirsch, Home Décor
Europe and Swish UK. Levolor/Kirsch primarily designs, manufactures or sources, packages and
distributes drapery hardware, custom and stock horizontal and vertical blinds, as well as pleated,
cellular and roller shades for the retail marketplace. Levolor/Kirsch also produces window
treatment components for custom window treatment fabricators. Home Décor Europe primarily designs,
manufactures, packages and distributes drapery hardware and made-to-order window treatments for the
European retail marketplace. Swish UK is a manufacturer and marketer of shelving and storage
products, cabinet hardware and functional trims. Swish UK also produces window treatment
components for custom window treatment fabricators.

Levolor/Kirsch primarily sells its products under the trademarks Levolor®, Newell®, and Kirsch®.
Home Décor Europe and Swish UK primarily sell their products under the trademarks Swish®, Nenplas®,
Homelux®, Gardinia®, Caroline® and Kirsch®.

Levolor/Kirsch markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home
centers, department/specialty stores, hardware distributors, industrial/construction outlets,
custom shops, select contract customers and other professional customers, using a network of
manufacturers’ representatives, as well as regional account and market-specific sales managers.
Home Décor Europe and Swish UK market their products to mass merchants and buying groups using a
direct sales force.

OTHER

The Company’s Other segment is conducted by the following divisions: Calphalon, Cookware Europe,
Little Tikes, Graco, and Goody. Calphalon primarily designs manufactures or sources, packages and
distributes aluminum and steel cookware. Cookware Europe primarily designs, manufactures, packages
and distributes glass products. These products include glass ovenware, servingware, cookware and
dinnerware products. Cookware Europe also produces glass components for appliance manufacturers,
and its products are marketed primarily in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The Little Tikes
and Graco businesses design, manufacture or source, package and distribute infant and juvenile
products such as toys, high chairs, car seats, strollers, play yards and ride-ons. Goody designs,
manufactures or sources, packages and distributes hair care accessories.

Calphalon primarily sells its products under the trademarks Calphalon®, Kitchen Essentials®, and
Calphalon®One™. Cookware Europe’s products are sold primarily under the trademarks Pyrex®, (used
under exclusive license from Corning Incorporated and its subsidiaries in Europe, the Middle East
and Africa only), Pyroflam® and Vitri®. Little Tikes and Graco primarily sell their products under
the Little Tikes®, Graco® and Century® trademarks. Goody markets its products primarily under the
Goody® and Ace® trademarks.

Calphalon markets its products directly to department/specialty stores and warehouse clubs using
regional-zone and market-specific sales managers. Cookware Europe markets its products to mass
merchants, industrial manufacturers and buying groups using a direct sales force and manufacturers’
representatives in some markets. Little Tikes and Graco market their products directly and through
distributors to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug


stores, as well as regional direct sales representatives and market-specific sales managers. Goody
markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, warehouse clubs,
grocery/drug stores using a network of manufacturers’ representatives, as well as regional direct
sales representatives and market-specific sales managers.

NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for the three
years ended December 31,

(in millions, except percentages)

(including sales of acquired businesses
from the time of acquisition and sales of divested businesses through date of sale), for the
Company’s five business segments. Sales to Wal*Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries amounted to approximately 14%, 14%, and
12% of consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively,
substantially across all divisions. Sales to no other customer exceeded 10% of consolidated net
sales. For more detailed segment information, including operating income and identifiable assets
by segment, refer to Footnote 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

% of

% of

% of


total


total


total

Cleaning & Organization

$1,858.1

27.5

%

$2,013.7

29.2

%

$1,901.8

29.5

%

Office Products

1,686.2

25.0

1,681.2

24.4

1,684.1

26.2

Tools & Hardware

1,218.7

18.1

1,199.7

17.4

783.0

12.2

Home Fashions

906.8

13.4

901.0

13.0

955.7

14.8

Other

1,078.6

16.0

1,103.4

16.0

1,112.3

17.3

Total Company

$6,748.4

100.0

%

$6,899.0

100.0

%

$6,436.9

100.0

%

GROWTH STRATEGY

The Company’s growth strategy emphasizes internal growth and acquisitions.

Internal Growth

The Company focuses on internal growth principally by introducing new products, entering new
domestic and international markets, adding new customers, cross-selling existing product lines to
current customers and supporting its U.S.-based customers’ international expansion. Internal
growth is defined by the Company as growth from its “core businesses,” which include continuing
businesses owned more than one year and minor acquisitions.

Acquisition Strategy

The Company supplements internal growth by acquiring businesses with prominent consumer-focused,
retail brands and improving the profitability of such businesses through the implementation of the
Company’s strategic initiatives. Other strategic criteria for an acquisition include the Company’s
ability to grow the business, its importance to key customers, its relationship to existing product
lines, its function as a low-cost source of supply, its ability to provide the Company with an
entrance into a new market, and the extent to which the Company can improve operational efficiency
through shared resources. In addition, the Company will consider the business’ actual and
potential impact on the Company’s operating performance. The Company did not invest in significant
acquisitions during 2004, as its priority was the reduction of debt. During 2005, the Company
intends to pursue acquisition opportunities to complement internal growth. See Footnote 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of 2003 and 2002 transactions.

Selective Globalization

The Company is pursuing selective international opportunities to further its internal growth and
acquisition objectives. The growth of consumer goods economies and retail structures in several
regions outside the U.S., particularly Asia, Mexico and South America, makes them attractive to the
Company by providing selective opportunities to acquire businesses, develop partnerships with new
foreign customers and extend relationships with


the Company’s domestic customers whose businesses are growing internationally. The Company had
sales outside the U.S. of approximately 32%, 31%, and 29% of total sales in 2004, 2003, and 2002,
respectively.

DIVESTITURE AND PRODUCT LINE RATIONALIZATION

The Company’s divestiture and product line rationalization strategy emphasizes the divestiture of
businesses and product offerings that do not meet the Company’s long-term strategic goals and
objectives.

The Company consistently reviews its businesses and product offerings, assesses their strategic fit
and seeks opportunities to divest of non-strategic businesses. The criteria used by the Company in
assessing the strategic fit include: the ability to increase sales for the business; its
importance to key customers; its relationship with existing product lines; its impact to the
market; and the business’ actual and potential impact on the operating performance of the Company.

The priority is to divest non-core businesses at reasonable valuations. See Footnotes 2 and 22 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of divestitures and discontinued
operations.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

Productivity

The Company’s objective is to reduce the cost of manufacturing a product by at least five percent
per year on an ongoing basis with the goal of becoming the best-cost supplier to our customers. To
achieve productivity, the Company focuses on reducing purchasing costs, materials handling costs,
manufacturing inefficiencies, and excess overhead costs to reduce the overall cost of manufacturing
products.

The deployment of Newell Operational Excellence (Newell OPEX) throughout the Company’s
manufacturing network is aimed to deliver the Company’s productivity targets. Newell OPEX is a
methodical process focused on lean manufacturing that includes installing the right manufacturing
and distribution metrics and driving improvements quarter after quarter. In addition to the cost
reductions, other key components of Newell OPEX are improved quality and service levels and the
reduction of inventory lead times.

Streamlining

The streamlining initiative represents the Company’s commitment and focus on reducing non-value
added activities and excess layers within the organization. The Company’s goal is to use the
savings generated from streamlining to fund marketing and other key initiatives. The Company is
vigilant in creating a leaner organization that is more flexible in its response time, both
internally and externally.

New Product Development

The Company’s goal is to become the leader in introducing cutting-edge, innovative and patented new
products to the marketplace. The Company seeks to employ the best and brightest new product
engineers in order to achieve this goal through the implementation and execution of a world-class
product development process. Excellence in new product development will enhance brand image and
help drive internal sales growth.

In 2004, new products launched by the Company included: Sharpie® RT, a retractable permanent
marker that allows easy one-handed operation with no cap to lose; LENOX® Gold™, a utility knife
that features bi-metal technology and a titanium nitride coating for enhanced durability and
performance; Calphalon® One™ Infused Anodized and Calphalon® One™ Nonstick, lines of gourmet
cookware featuring proprietary technology. Calphalon® One™ Infused Anodized features an exclusive
hybrid cooking surface in which advance release polymers are infused into the hard-anodized
aluminum surface, delivering the benefits of traditional cookware with the benefits of a controlled
release surface. Calphalon® One™ Nonstick features an innovative cooking surface engineered with a
proprietary matrix of four interlocking nonstick layers which results in superior food release and
unmatched durability.


Marketing

The Company’s objective is to develop long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships with its
customers and become their supplier of choice. To achieve this goal, the Company has a value-added
marketing program that offers a family of leading brand name staple products, tailored sales
programs, innovative merchandising support, in-store services and responsive top management.

The Company’s marketing skills help customers stimulate store traffic and sales through timely
advertising and innovative promotions. The Company also assists customers in differentiating their
offerings by customizing products and packaging. Through self-selling packaging and displays that
emphasize good-better-best value relationships, retail customers are encouraged to trade up to
higher-value, best quality products.

The Company is committed to selective media advertising, including national television advertising
where appropriate, in order to increase brand awareness among end-users of the product. In 2004,
Sharpie® permanent markers and IRWIN® Industrial Tools were sponsors of Kurt Busch and the #97
Sharpie car, winner of the 2004 NASCAR NEXTEL Cup Championship, and sponsored the Sharpie® 500
NASCAR race in Bristol, TN.

Customer service also involves customer contact with top-level decision makers at the Company’s
divisions. As part of its decentralized structure, the Company’s division presidents are the chief
marketing officers of their product lines and communicate directly with customers. This structure
permits early recognition of market trends and timely response to customer problems.

The marketing effort focuses largely on an extensive grass roots marketing campaign, highlighted by
the Phoenix Program. This program is an action-oriented field sales force consisting of recent
university graduates. The team works in the field, primarily within our Strategic Account
structure, performing in-store product demonstrations, event marketing, on-shelf merchandising,
interacting with the end-user, and maintaining an ongoing relationship with store personnel. This
initiative allows the Company to enhance product placement and minimize stock outages and, together
with the Strategic Account Management Program, to maximize shelf space potential.

Strategic Account Management

The Strategic Account Management Program is the Company’s sales and marketing approach that focuses
growth efforts on strategic accounts with high long-term growth potential. Separate sales
organizations have been established to more effectively manage the relationship at the largest
strategic accounts. As part of this program, the Company established President level positions to
more effectively manage the relationships with these accounts. The program allows the Company to
present these customers with “one face” to enhance the Company’s response time, understand the
customer’s needs and support the best possible customer relationship.

Collaboration

Collaboration represents the Company’s focus on benefiting from the sharing of best practices and
the reduction of costs achieved through economies of scale. For example, functions, such as
purchasing and distribution and transportation, have been centralized to increase buying power
across the Company.

Additionally, certain administrative functions are centralized at the corporate level including
cash management, accounting systems, capital expenditure approvals, order processing, billing,
credit, accounts receivable, data processing operations and legal functions. Centralization
concentrates technical expertise in one location, making it easier to observe overall business
trends and manage the Company’s businesses.

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-Product Offering

The Company’s increasingly broad product coverage in multiple product lines permits it to more
effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading, brand name products and
profitable new products, the Company also can help volume purchasers sell a more profitable product
mix. As a potential single source for an


entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation,
optimize display space for both sales and income and encourage impulse buying by retail customers.

Customer Service

The Company believes that one of the primary ways it distinguishes itself from its competitors is
through customer service. The Company’s ability to provide superior customer service is a result
of its information technology, marketing and merchandising programs designed to enhance the sales
and profitability of its customers and provide consistent on-time delivery of its products.

On-Time Delivery

A critical element of the Company’s customer service is consistent on-time delivery of products to
its customers. Retailers are pursuing a number of strategies to deliver the highest-quality,
best-cost products to their customers. A growing trend among retailers is to purchase on a
“just-in-time” basis in order to reduce inventory costs and increase returns on investment. As
retailers shorten their lead times for orders, manufacturers need to more closely anticipate
consumer-buying patterns. The Company supports its retail customers’ “just-in-time” inventory
strategies through investments in improved forecasting systems, more responsive manufacturing and
distribution capabilities and electronic communications. The Company manufactures the majority of
its products and has extensive experience in high-volume, cost-effective manufacturing. The
high-volume nature of its manufacturing processes and the relatively consistent demand for its
products enable the Company to ship most products directly from its factories without the need for
independent warehousing and distribution centers.

Foreign Operations

Information regarding the Company’s 2004, 2003 and 2002 foreign operations and financial
information by geographic area are included in Footnote 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s
foreign operations is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference
herein.

Raw Materials

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its
material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its
products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings
require significant purchases of resin and steel. The Company has experienced inflation in these
raw materials and expects such inflation pressures to continue in 2005. See Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.

Backlog

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.

Seasonal Variations

The Company’s product groups are only moderately affected by seasonal trends. The Cleaning &
Organization and Other business segments typically have higher sales in the second half of the year
due to retail stocking related to the holiday season; the Tools & Hardware and Home Fashions
business segments typically have higher sales in the second and third quarters due to an increased
level of do-it-yourself projects completed in the summer months; and the Office Products business
segment has higher sales in the second and third quarters due to the back-to-school season.
Because these seasonal trends are moderate, the Company’s consolidated quarterly sales generally do
not fluctuate significantly, unless a significant acquisition is made.


Patents and Trademarks

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate,
important to its business. The Company’s largest registered trademarks are under the
“Rubbermaid®”, “Sharpie®”, and “Paper Mate®” brand names.

Customers / Competition

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home
centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores. The rapid growth of these large mass
merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to a
significant consolidation of the consumer products retail industry and the formation of dominant
multi-category retailers, many of which have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This
environment significantly limits the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling
prices.

Other trends among retailers are to foster high levels of competition among suppliers, to demand
that manufacturers supply innovative new products and to require suppliers to maintain or reduce
product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Another trend, in the absence of a
strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, is for the retailer to import
generic products directly from foreign sources. The combination of these market influences has
created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers
continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in pricing pressures and the need
for strong end-user brands, the ongoing introduction of innovative new products and continuing
improvements in customer service. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and
distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well established.

The Company has positioned itself to respond to the challenges of this retail environment by
developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong
multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including
discount, drug, grocery and variety chains, warehouse clubs, department, hardware and specialty
stores, home centers, office superstores, contract stationers and military exchanges. The
Company’s largest customer, Wal*Mart (which includes Sam’s
Club),  accounted for approximately 14% of net sales in 2004, substantially
across all divisions. The Company’s top ten customers included (

in alphabetical order

): Ace
Hardware, Lowe’s, Office Depot, Office Max, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, United
Stationers and Wal*Mart.

The Company’s other principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are high brand name
recognition, superior customer service (including industry leading information technology,
innovative “good-better-best” marketing and merchandising programs), consistent on-time delivery,
decentralized manufacturing and marketing, centralized administration, and experienced management.

Environmental Matters

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in Management’s Discussion
and Analysis section of this report and in Footnote 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and
is incorporated by reference herein.

Research and Development

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three
fiscal years is included in Footnote 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated
by reference herein.

Employees

As of December 31, 2004, the Company had approximately 31,100 employees worldwide, of whom
approximately 4,500 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or, in certain countries, other
collective arrangements decreed by statute.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The following table shows the location and general character of the principal operating facilities
owned or leased by the Company. The properties are listed within their designated business
segment: Cleaning & Organization; Office Products; Tools &
Hardware; Home Fashions; and Other.
These are the primary manufacturing locations and in many instances also contain administrative
offices and warehouses used for distribution of our products. The Company also maintains sales
offices throughout the United States and the world. The corporate offices are located in leased
space in Atlanta, Georgia. Most of the idle facilities, which are excluded from the following
list, are subleased while being held pending sale or lease expiration. The Company’s properties
are generally in good condition, well maintained, and are suitable and adequate to carry on the
Company’s business.

OWNED

OR

BUSINESS SEGMENT

LOCATION

CITY

LEASED

GENERAL CHARACTER

CLEANING

& ORGANIZATION

Mexico

Cadereyta

L

Commercial Products

TN

Cleveland

O

Commercial Products 2 facilities

VA

Winchester

O/L

Commercial Products 2 facilities

AZ

Phoenix

O

Home Products

Germany

Dreieich

L

Home Products

Hungary

Ebes

O

Home Products

IA

Centerville

O/L

Home Products 2 facilities

Mexico

Tultitlan

O

Home Products

Netherlands

Brunssum

L

Home Products

Netherlands

Goirle

O

Home Products

OH

Mogadore

L

Home Products

OH

Canton

O

Home Products

OH

Wooster

L

Home Products

Canada

Mississauga

O

Home Products

Canada

Calgary

L

Home Products

Poland

Slupsk

O

Home Products

Spain

Zaragoza

O

Home Products

TX

Greenville

O

Home Products

TX

Wills Point

L

Home Products

Luxembourg

Neidercorn

O

Home Products

KS

Winfield

O/L

Home Products 2 facilities

MO

Jackson

O

Home Storage Systems

Canada

Watford

L

Home Storage Systems

OFFICE PRODUCTS

CA

Santa Monica

L

Writing Instruments

IL

Bellwood

O/L

Writing Instruments 3 facilities

TN

Lewisburg

O

Writing Instruments

TN

Shelbyville

O

Writing Instruments 2 facilities

WI

Janesville

L

Writing Instruments

Canada

Oakville

L

Writing Instruments

Thailand

Bangkok

O

Writing Instruments

India

Chennai

L

Writing Instruments

Colombia

Bogota

O

Writing Instruments

France

St. Herblain

O

Writing Instruments

France

Valence

O

Writing Instruments

Germany

Hamburg

O

Writing Instruments

Germany

Baden-Baden

L

Writing Instruments

Mexico

Mexicali

L

Writing Instruments

Mexico

Tlalnepantla

O

Writing Instruments

UK

Newhaven

O

Writing Instruments

China

Dongguan

L

Writing Instruments

China

Shanghai

L

Writing Instruments


OWNED

OR

BUSINESS SEGMENT

LOCATION

CITY

LEASED

GENERAL CHARACTER

Venezuela

Maracay

O

Writing Instruments

TN

Maryville

O

Office & Storage Organizers

WI

Madison

O

Office & Storage

TOOLS & HARDWARE

WI

Milwaukee

O

Paint Applicators

China

Shanghai

O

Paint Applicators

NY

Medina

O

Propane/Oxygen Hand Torches

IL

Rockford

O

Hardware

TN

Memphis

L

Small Hardware

IN

Lowell

O

Window Hardware

NE

DeWitt

O

Tools

MA

East Longmeadow

O

Tools

ME

Gorham

O

Tools

OH

Wilmington

O

Tools

NC

Huntersville

L

Tools

Australia

Auburn

L

Tools

Australia

Scoresby

L

Tools

Canada

Cambridge

L

Tools

New Zealand

Auckland

L

Tools

New Zealand

Wellsford

O

Tools

Poland

Brodnica

O

Tools

Brazil

Sao Paulo

O

Tools 2 facilities

Brazil

Carlos Bobos

O

Tools

Denmark

Asnaes

O

Tools

Denmark

Copenhagen

O

Tools

Denmark

Thisted

O

Tools

UK

Sheffield

O

Tools

Netherlands

Helmond

O

Tools

Germany

Munich

L

Tools

Mexico

Monterrey

L

Hardware

Canada

Woodbridge

L

Hardware

India

Grajarat

O

Tools

HOME FASHIONS

Mexico

Ciudad Juarez

L

Window Treatments

Mexico

Agua Prieta

L

Window Treatments 3 facilities

Mexico

Esqueda

L

Window Treatments

AZ

Douglas

L

Window Treatments

Canada

Calgary

L

Window Treatments

Canada

Toronto

L

Window Treatments

Denmark

Hornum

O

Window Treatments

France

Feuquieres-en-Vimeu

O

Window Treatments

France

Tremblay-les-Village

O

Window Treatments

France

La Boissellerie

O

Window Treatments

Germany

Borken

L

Window Treatments

Germany

Isny

O

Window Treatments

IL

Freeport

O

Window Treatments

Italy

Como

O

Window Treatments

NC

High Point

L

Window Treatments

Sweden

Anderstorp

O

Window Treatments

Sweden

Malmo

O

Window Treatments

UK

Ashbourne

O

Window Treatments

UK

Tamworth

O

Window Treatments

UK

Fradley

L

Window Treatments


OWNED

OR

BUSINESS SEGMENT

LOCATION

CITY

LEASED

GENERAL CHARACTER

Portugal

Porto

L

Window Treatments

UT

Ogden

L

Window Treatments

UT

Salt Lake City

L

Window Treatments

Poland

Wrowclaw

O

Window Treatments

OTHER

OH

Perrysburg

O

Cookware

UK

Sunderland

O

Glassware & Bakeware

France

Chateauroux

O

Glassware & Bakeware

CA

San Bernadino

L

Infant Products

OH

Macedonia

O

Infant Products

PA

Elverson

O

Infant Products

PA

Exton

L

Infant Products

PA

Chester Springs

L

Infant Products

Mexico

Piedras Negras

L

Infant Products

OH

Hudson

O

Juvenile Products

GA

Manchester

O

Hair Accessories

GA

Columbus

O

Hair Accessories 2 facilities

GA

Atlanta

L

Hair Accessories

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Information regarding legal proceedings is included in Footnote 21 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of the Company’s shareholders during the fourth quarter
of fiscal year 2004.

SUPPLEMENTARY ITEM — EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Name

Age

Present Position With The Company

Joseph Galli, Jr.


President and Chief Executive Officer

James J. Roberts


President and Chief Operating Officer,
Rubbermaid/IRWIN Group

Timothy J. Jahnke


President, Home & Family Products Group

Steven G. Marton


President, Office Products Group

J. Patrick Robinson


Vice President — Chief Financial Officer

Dale L. Matschullat


Vice President — General Counsel and

Corporate Secretary

Hartley D. Blaha


President — Corporate Development

James M. Sweet


Vice President — Human Resources

Raymond J. Johnson


President — Global Manufacturing and Supply
Chain

Joseph Galli, Jr. has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since January 2001.
Prior thereto, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of VerticalNet, Inc. (an internet
business-to-business company) from May 2000 until January 2001. From June 1999 until May 2000, he
was President and Chief Operating Officer of Amazon.com (an internet business-to-consumer company).
From 1980 until June 1999, he held a variety of positions with The Black and Decker Corporation (a
manufacturer and marketer of power tools and accessories), culminating as President of Black and
Decker’s Worldwide Power Tools and Accessories Group.


James J. Roberts has been President and Chief Operating Officer of the Rubbermaid/IRWIN Group since
September 2003. Prior thereto, he was Group President of the Company’s IRWIN business segment from
April 2001 until August 2003. From September 2000 until March 2001, he served as President -
Worldwide Hand Tools and Hardware at Stanley Works (a supplier of tools, door systems and related
hardware). From July 1981 until September 2000, he held a variety of positions with The Black and
Decker Corporation (a manufacturer and marketer of power tools and accessories), culminating as
President Worldwide Accessories.

Timothy J. Jahnke has been President of the Home & Family Products Group since April 2004. Prior
thereto, he was Vice President — Human Resources of the Company from February 2001 to April 2004
and President of the Anchor Hocking Specialty Glass division from June 1999 until February 2001.
From 1995 until June 1999, he led the human resources department of the Company’s Sanford
division’s worldwide operations.

Steven G. Marton has been President of the Office Products Group since December 2004. From 2000 to
December 2004, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of Hill’s Pet Nutrition, a division of
Colgate Palmolive. From 1992 until 2000, he held various other executive positions, with
significant international experience, in several divisions of Colgate Palmolive, including Colgate
Oral Pharmaceuticals.

J. Patrick Robinson has been Vice President — Chief Financial Officer since November 2004. Prior
thereto, he was Vice President — Corporate Controller and Chief Financial Officer from June 2003
until October 2004 and Vice President — Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from May 2001 until
May 2003. From March 2000 until May 2001, he was Chief Financial Officer of AirClic Inc. (a
web-based software and services platform company for the mobile information market). From 1983
until March 2000, he held a variety of financial positions with The Black and Decker Corporation (a
manufacturer and marketer of power tools and accessories), culminating as Vice President of
Finance, Worldwide Power Tools.

Dale L. Matschullat has been Vice President — General Counsel since January 2001 and Corporate
Secretary since August 2003. Prior thereto, he was Vice President-Finance, Chief Financial Officer
and General Counsel from January 2000 until January 2001. From 1989 until January 2000, he was
Vice President — General Counsel.

Hartley D. Blaha has
been President — Corporate Development since February 2005.
Prior thereto, he was Vice President — Corporate Development from
November 2003 to February 2005. Prior
thereto, from 1987 to 2003 he held a variety of positions within the Investment Banking Division of Lehman Brothers
Inc. (a global investment bank), culminating as Managing Director, Mergers and Acquisitions.

James M. Sweet has been Vice President — Human Resources since May 2004. Prior thereto, he was
Group Vice President — Human Resources for the Sharpie/Calphalon Group from January 2004 to April
2004. From 2001 to 2004, he was President of Capital H, Inc., a human resource services company
that Mr. Sweet co-founded. From 1999-2001, he was Vice President of Human Resources for the
Industrial Automation Systems and Rexnord divisions of Invensys PLC (an industrial manufacturing
company). Prior thereto, he held executive human resource positions at Kohler Co., Keystone
International and Brady Corp.

Raymond J. Johnson has been President — Global Manufacturing and Supply Chain since February 2005.
Prior thereto, he was Group Vice President — Manufacturing for the Rubbermaid/IRWIN Group from
November 2003 to February 2005 and for the Office Products Group from June 2004 to February 2005,
and was Vice President — Manufacturing for the IRWIN Power Tool Accessories Division from November
2002 to November 2003. From May to November 2002, he was Vice President and General Manager of the
General Products Division of Eaton Corporation (a manufacturer of industrial machinery and
equipment), and from May 2001 to May 2002, he was General Manager of the Golf Grip Business Unit of
Eaton Corporation. From 1999 to May 2001, he was Vice President — Operations of True Temper
Sports, Inc. (a manufacturer and marketer of golf shafts). Prior thereto, he was Vice President
and General Manager of the Diversified Products Division of Technimark, Inc. (a manufacturer of
plastics products for commercial customers) from 1998 to 1999, and held a variety of positions with
The Black and Decker Corporation (a manufacturer and marketer of power tools and accessories) from
1983 to 1998, culminating as Vice President of Operations for North American Power Tools.


PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES

The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago Stock Exchanges (symbol: NWL). As
of January 31, 2005 there were 21,193 stockholders of record. The following table sets forth the
high and low sales prices of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape (as
published in The Wall Street Journal) for the calendar periods indicated:



Quarters

High

Low

High

Low

First

$26.41

$22.15

$32.00

$24.74

Second

25.03

22.19

31.34

27.44

Third

23.60

19.75

29.45

21.17

Fourth

24.27

19.05

24.23

20.27

The Company has paid regular cash dividends on its common stock since 1947. The quarterly cash
dividend has been $0.21 per share since February 1, 2000, when it was increased from the $0.20 per
share that had been paid since February 8, 1999.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following is a summary of certain consolidated financial information relating to the Company at
December 31,

(in millions, except per share data)

. The summary has been derived in part from, and
should be read in conjunction with, the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company included
elsewhere in this report and the schedules thereto.



2002(1)



STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS DATA

Net sales

$6,748.4

$6,899.0

$6,436.9

$5,926.8

$5,947.3

Cost of products sold

4,857.9

4,961.8

4,608.2

4,313.4

4,462.5

Gross margin

1,890.5

1,937.2

1,828.7

1,613.4

1,484.8

Selling, general and administrative expenses

1,269.8

1,221.5

1,167.2

1,018.8

689.6

Impairment charge

374.0

34.5

—

—

—

Restructuring costs

52.1

184.0

101.8

61.1

(2)

34.7

(3)

Goodwill amortization

—

—

—

46.6

51.9

Operating income

194.6

497.2

559.7

486.9

708.6

Nonoperating expenses:

Interest expense, net

119.3

134.3

132.6

133.6

124.5

Other (income) expense, net

(11.0

)

25.6

28.6

21.4

21.7

Net nonoperating expenses

108.3

159.9

161.2

155.0

146.2

Income from continuing operations before income
taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change

86.3

337.3

398.5

331.9

562.4

Income taxes

105.4

124.1

133.5

120.9

216.5

(Loss) income before discontinued operations and
cumulative effect of accounting change

(19.1

)

213.2

265.0

211.0

345.9

(Loss) gain from discontinued operations, net of tax

(97.0

)

(259.8

)

46.5

53.6

75.7

Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax

—

—

(514.9

)

—

—

Net (loss) income

($116.1

)

($46.6

)

($203.4

)

$264.6

$421.6

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

274.4

274.1

267.1

266.7

268.4

Diluted

274.4

274.1

268.0

267.0

268.5

Per common share —

Basic —

(Loss) income from continuing operations

($0.07

)

$0.78

$0.99

$0.79

$1.29

(Loss) income from discontinued operations

($0.35

)

($0.95

)

$0.18

$0.20

$0.28




2002(1)



Cumulative effect of accounting change

$—

$—

($1.93

)

$—

$—

Net (loss) income

($0.42

)

($0.17

)

($0.76

)

$0.99

$1.57

Diluted —

(Loss) income from continuing operations

($0.07

)

$0.78

$0.99

$0.79

$1.29

(Loss) income from discontinued operations

($0.35

)

($0.95

)

$0.17

$0.20

$0.28

Cumulative effect of accounting change

$—

$—

($1.92

)

$—

$—

Net (loss) income

($0.42

)

($0.17

)

($0.76

)

$0.99

$1.57

Dividends

$0.84

$0.84

$0.84

$0.84

$0.84

BALANCE SHEET DATA

Inventories, net

$972.3

$884.8

$993.4

$890.8

$1,019.6

Working capital (4)

1,141.1

978.2

465.6

316.8

1,329.5

Total assets

6,665.9

7,480.7

7,404.4

7,266.1

7,261.8

Short-term debt

206.9

35.4

449.2

826.6

227.2

Long-term debt, net of current maturities

2,424.3

2,868.6

2,372.1

1,365.0

2,319.6

Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable
convertible preferred securities of a subsidiary
trust

—

—

—

500.0

500.0

Stockholders’ equity

1,764.2

2,016.3

2,063.5

2,433.4

2,448.6

(1)

Supplemental data regarding 2004, 2003 and 2002 is provided in Item 7, Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

(2)

The 2001 restructuring costs included $34.3 million for costs to exit business
activities at facilities, write-down impaired Rubbermaid centralized software, write-off
assets associated with abandoned projects and impaired assets and for costs related to
discontinued product lines, $23.2 million relating to employee severance and termination
benefits and $3.6 million in other costs.

(3)

The 2000 restructuring costs included $6.9 million for costs to exit business
activities at facilities, write-down impaired Rubbermaid centralized software, write-off
assets associated with abandoned projects and impaired assets and for costs related to
discontinued product lines, $25.9 million relating to employee severance and termination
benefits and $1.9 million in other costs.

(4)

Working capital is defined as Current Assets less Current Liabilities.

ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES

2004, 2003 and 2002

Information regarding businesses acquired in the last three years is included in Footnote 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.


The Company made only minor acquisitions in 2001, for $61.2 million in cash and $0.1 million of
assumed debt.


In December 2000, the Company acquired PaperMate/Parker, a Writing Instruments business. The
Company paid $635.2 million in cash and assumed debt of $15.0 million for PaperMate/Parker and
other minor acquisitions.

QUARTERLY SUMMARIES

Summarized quarterly data for the last two years is as follows

(in millions, except per share data)

(unaudited):

Calendar Year


st


nd


rd


th

Year


Net sales

$1,532.3

$1,735.8

$1,671.8

$1,808.5

$6,748.4

Gross margin

409.3

486.4

473.3

521.6

1,890.5

Net income (loss) from continuing operations

34.2

57.6

(235.0

)

124.1

(19.1

)

(Loss) gain from discontinued operations

(109.1

)

3.4

8.6

—

(97.0

)

Net (loss) income

($74.9

)

$61.0

($226.4

)

$124.1

($116.1

)

Earnings (loss) per share:

Basic —


Calendar Year


st


nd


rd


th

Year

Income (loss) from continuing operations

$0.12

$0.21

($0.86

)

$0.45

($0.07

)

(Loss) income from discontinued operations

($0.39

)

$0.01

$0.03

$—

($0.35

)

Net (loss) Income per common share

($0.27

)

$0.22

($0.83

)

$0.45

($0.42

)

Diluted —

Income (loss) from continuing operations

$0.12

$0.21

($0.86

)

$0.45

($0.07

)

(Loss) income from discontinued operations

($0.39

)

$0.01

$0.03

$—

($0.35

)

Net (loss) income per common share

($0.27

)

$0.22

($0.83

)

$0.45

($0.42

)


Net sales

$1,547.6

$1,795.3

$1,729.1

$1,827.0

$6,899.0

Gross margin

430.2

525.0

491.8

490.2

1,937.2

Net income from continuing operations

41.4

82.0

85.5

4.4

213.2

Loss from discontinued operations

(25.4

)

(8.2

)

(10.3

)

(216.0

)

(259.8

)

Net income (loss)

$16.0

$73.8

$75.2

($211.6

)

($46.6

)

Earnings (loss) per share:

Basic —

Income from continuing operations

$0.15

$0.30

$0.31

$0.02

$0.78

Loss from discontinued operations

($0.09

)

($0.03

)

($0.04

)

($0.79

)

($0.95

)

Net income (loss) per common share

$0.06

$0.27

$0.27

($0.77

)

($0.17

)

Diluted —

Income from continuing operations

$0.15

$0.30

$0.31

$0.02

$0.78

Loss from discontinued operations

($0.09

)

($0.03

)

($0.04

)

($0.79

)

($0.95

)

Net income (loss) per common share

$0.06

$0.27

$0.27

($0.77

)

($0.17

)

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis provides information which management believes is relevant to
an assessment and understanding of the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial
condition. The discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated
Financial Statements. It includes the following sections:


Executive Overview

Newell Rubbermaid is a global manufacturer and marketer of branded consumer products and their
commercial extensions, serving a wide array of retail channels including department stores,
discount stores, warehouse clubs, home centers, hardware stores, commercial distributors, office
superstores, contract stationers, automotive stores, and pet superstores. The Company markets a
multi-product offering of consumer products backed by an obsession with customer service and new
product development. The Company conducts businesses in five operating segments as follows:

Segment

Description of Products

Cleaning & Organization

Indoor/outdoor organization, storage, food storage, cleaning, refuse

Office Products

Ballpoint/roller ball pens, markers, highlighters, pencils, office products, art supplies

Tools & Hardware

Hand tools, power tool accessories, industrial tool accessories, manual paint

applicators, cabinet and window hardware, propane torches

Home Fashions

Drapery houseware, window treatments

Other

Operating segments that do not meet aggregation criteria, including
aluminum and

stainless steel cookware, glassware, hair care
accessory products, infant and juvenile

products, including toys,
high chairs, car seats, strollers

2004 Overview:

In 2004, management was focused on the following key objectives:

1.

Continue to divest non-strategic businesses.

2.

Complete the 2001 restructuring plan.

3.

Continue to rationalize low-margin product lines.

4.

Deploy Newell Operational Excellence (Newell OPEX).

The following section details the Company’s performance in each of its 2004 objectives:

Divestiture of Nonstrategic Businesses

In 2004, the Company completed its previously announced divestiture program, divesting several
nonstrategic businesses as follows:

On January 31, 2004, the Company completed the sale of its Panex Brazilian low-end cookware
division (previously reported in the Other operating segment) and European picture frames
businesses (previously reported in the Home Fashions operating segment).

On April 13, 2004, the Company sold substantially all of its U.S. picture frame business (Burnes),
its Anchor Hocking glassware business and its Mirro cookware business. Under the terms of the
agreement and final adjustments relating to the transaction, the Company retained the accounts
receivable of the businesses of $76.6 million, and total proceeds, including the retained
receivables, as a result of the transaction were $304 million. The Burnes picture frame business
was previously reported in the Home Fashions operating segment, while the Anchor Hocking and Mirro
businesses were previously reported in the Other operating segment.

On July 1, 2004, the Company completed the sale of Little Tikes Commercial Playground Systems Inc.
(“LTCPS”) business. LTCPS was previously reported in the Other operating segment, as a unit of the
Company’s Little Tikes division. The Company retained the consumer portion of its Little Tikes
division.

The results of the businesses above are reported in discontinued operations for all periods
presented. See Footnote 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

On January 12, 2005, the Company entered into an agreement for the intended sale of the Company’s
Curver business. The Curver business manufactures and markets plastic products for home storage
and garage organization, food storage, laundry, bath, cleaning, closet organization and refuse
removal in various countries in Europe. The Company’s European commercial products and other
European businesses will not be affected by the intended sale. In connection with this intended
transaction, the Company expects to record a total non-cash loss related to the sale


of approximately $75 to $95 million in the first and second quarters of 2005. The Curver business
had 2004 sales of approximately $150 million. The Curver business is included in the Cleaning &
Organization segment, but will be reclassified to discontinued operations in the first quarter of
2005. See Footnote 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Restructuring

In 2004, the Company completed the accounting charges associated with its strategic restructuring
plan (the “Plan”) announced on May 3, 2001. The specific objectives of the Plan were to streamline
the Company’s supply chain to become the best-cost global provider throughout the Company’s
portfolio by reducing worldwide headcount and consolidating duplicative manufacturing facilities.
The Company recorded $461.7 million in restructuring charges under the Plan, including $84.2
million on discontinued operations. In addition to the restructuring activities outlined under the
Plan, the Company recorded a fourth quarter charge of $4.2 million, primarily related to the
closure of one additional facility in the Other segment not contemplated under the Plan. See
Footnote 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.

Rationalization of Low-Margin Product Lines

In 2004, the Company exited approximately $275 million of low-margin product lines, principally in
the Rubbermaid Home Products, Eldon Office Products and Swish UK businesses.

The Company continuously reviews its entire product line portfolio and evaluates their long-term
strategic fit within the overall corporate strategy. The Company considers factors such as raw
material inflation and pricing elasticity in its review of these product lines. Product line
rationalization is expected to continue in 2005 with further exits planned in Rubbermaid Home
Products, Graco, Swish UK and Office Products businesses. Refer to the Company’s 2005 priorities,
listed below, for additional information.

Newell OPEX / Productivity

The Company’s 2004 productivity initiatives, driven by the deployment of Newell OPEX, generated
gross productivity of $123 million for the year and offset raw material inflation of $116 million.
Significant opportunity remains for the Company in 2005, especially in the Office Products segment.
The continued focus on implementing Newell OPEX should allow the Company to deliver productivity
savings, thereby delivering long-term gross margin expansion, despite raw material inflation. In
addition, the Company has placed further emphasis on capital spending discipline, specifically in
the Company’s Rubbermaid Home Products business. Overall capital expenditures decreased to $121.9
million in 2004, from $300 million and $252.1 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively.

2005 Priorities:

In 2005, management is focused on the following key objectives:

1.

Strengthen/Broaden Portfolio:

The Company regularly evaluates its current portfolio
and assesses whether strategic partnerships and/or acquisitions are beneficial to the
Company’s long-term strategy, as well as identifying businesses or product lines that no
longer fit within the Company’s strategic plan. Periodically, the Company supplements
internal growth by acquiring businesses with prominent consumer-focused, retail brands and
improving the profitability of such businesses through the implementation of the Company’s
strategic initiatives. Other strategic criteria for an acquisition include the Company’s
ability to grow the business, its importance to key customers, its relationship to existing
product lines, its function as a low-cost source of supply, its ability to provide the
Company with an entrance into a new market, and the extent to which the Company can improve
operational efficiency through shared resources. In addition, the Company will consider
the business’ actual and potential impact on the operating performance of the Company’s
Group at issue. The Company did not make significant acquisitions during 2004, as the
priority was the reduction of debt. During 2005, the Company intends to pursue acquisition
opportunities to complement internal growth. In addition to adding businesses or product
lines to the Company’s current portfolio, the Company continues to rationalize low margin
product lines that do not fit within the


Company’s strategic plan. In 2005, the Company plans to exit approximately $200 million in
low margin product lines in the Rubbermaid Home Products, Graco, Swish UK, and Office
Products businesses.

2.

Invest in High Margin Businesses:

The Company continues to focus significant resources
on enhancing its new product development pipeline, as well as strengthening the Company’s
numerous brands through targeted advertising. The Company believes that the introduction
of innovative new products coupled with strong brands will improve the Company’s profit
margin by creating demand from its end user. In 2005, the Company intends to make
additional investments in SG&A of about $40 million, (primarily in the office products and
tools & hardware segments), which will be partially offset by the positive impact of the
U.S. pension curtailment (discussed in Footnote 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements). The net impact is an expected increase in SG&A of about $20 million.

3.

Address Raw Material Inflation:

The Company has several businesses that are
significantly impacted by commodity inflation. The Company has historically combated these
cost increases through organic productivity initiatives. However, due to the continued
inflation pressure within several of its core commodity purchases, the Company has
implemented price increases to offset a portion of the increased costs. For 2005, the
Company has estimated raw material inflation of approximately $170 million and expects
pricing increases to contribute approximately $100 million in 2005.

4.

Reduce Manufacturing Overhead:

The Company is committed to reducing its manufacturing
costs by at least five percent annually. As a result of the recent divestiture and product
line rationalization programs, the Company is focusing on reengineering its manufacturing
overhead structure to accommodate its current manufacturing base. In connection with this
goal, the Company is committed to deploying and implementing Newell OPEX. Significant
opportunity remains for the Company in 2005, especially in the Office Products segment.
The continued focus on implementing Newell OPEX is expected to allow the Company to deliver
productivity savings, thereby delivering long-term gross margin expansion, despite raw
material inflation. As part of this strategy, the Company intends to continue to implement
its capital spending discipline throughout the organization and expects to spend $125 to
$150 million in 2005.

Consolidated Results of Operations

The following table sets forth for the periods indicated items from the Consolidated Statements of
Operations as reported and as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, (

in
millions, except percentages

):




Net sales

$6,748.4

100.0

%

$6,899.0

100.0

%

$6,436.9

100.0

%

Cost of products sold

4,857.9

72.0

4,961.8

71.9

4,608.2

71.6

Gross margin

1,890.5

28.0

1,937.2

28.1

1,828.7

28.4

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

1,269.8

18.8

1,221.5

17.7

1,167.2

18.1

Impairment charge

374.0

5.5

34.5

0.5

—

—

Restructuring costs

52.1

0.8

184.0

2.7

101.8

1.6

Operating income

194.6

2.9

497.2

7.2

559.7

8.7

Nonoperating expenses:

Interest expense, net

119.3

1.8

134.3

1.9

132.6

2.1

Other (income) expense, net

(11.0

)

(0.2

)

25.6

0.4

28.6

0.4

Net nonoperating expenses

108.3

1.6

159.9

2.3

161.2

2.5

Income from continuing
operations before income taxes
and cumulative effect of
accounting change

86.3

1.3

337.3

4.9

398.5

6.2

Income taxes

105.4

1.6

124.1

1.8

133.5

2.1

Net (loss) income before
discontinued operations and
cumulative effect of
accounting change

(19.1

)

(0.3

)

213.2

3.1

265.0

4.1

(Loss) gain from discontinued
operations, net of tax

(97.0

)

(1.4

)

(259.8

)

(3.8

)

46.5

0.7

Cumulative effect of
accounting change, net of tax

—

—

—

—

(514.9

)

(8.0

)

Net loss

($116.1

)

(1.7

)%

($46.6

)

(0.7

)%

($203.4

)

(3.2

)%


Results of Operations — 2004 vs. 2003

Net sales decreased $150.6 million, or 2.2%, in 2004. The decrease resulted primarily from product
line rationalization of approximately $275 million, or 4.0%, unfavorable pricing of $3 million, or
0.1%, the disposal of the Cosmolab business which had $10 million in sales in 2003, and core sales
decline of $22 million, or 0.2%, partially offset by favorable foreign currency translation of $160
million, or 2.3%, for the period.

Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, in 2004 was 28.0%, or $1,890.5 million, versus 28.1%,
or $1,937.2 million, in 2003. The decline in gross margin is primarily related to raw material
inflation of $116 million and unfavorable pricing of $3 million, partially offset by favorable mix
driven by the rationalization of unprofitable product lines, primarily in the Rubbermaid Home
Products business, and net productivity and other savings of $57 million.

Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A) were 18.8% of net sales, or $1,269.8 million in
2004, versus 17.7%, or $1,221.5 million, in 2003. The increase in SG&A reflects a foreign currency
impact of $44 million and pension cost increases of $16 million. All other SG&A was down $12
million with strategic investments more than offset by streamlining initiatives.

The Company recorded non-cash pretax impairment charges of $374.0 million in 2004 versus $34.5
million in 2003. These charges were required to write down certain assets to fair value. See
Footnote 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

The Company recorded
pre-tax strategic restructuring costs of $52.1 million ($35.9
million after tax) and $184.0 million ($124.4 million after tax) for
2004 and 2003, respectively. The 2004 pre-tax charge included $44.6 million of facility and other
exit costs, $8.1 million of employee severance and termination benefits, and ($0.6) million of
income resulting from a change in estimate in other restructuring costs. The 2003 pre-tax charge
included $82.8 million of facility and other exit costs, $75.7 million of employee severance and
termination benefits and $25.5 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring
costs. See Footnote 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
strategic restructuring plan.

Operating income in 2004 was 2.9% of net sales, or $194.6 million, versus 7.2% of net sales, or
$497.2 million, in 2003. The decrease in operating income is the result of the factors described
above.

Net nonoperating expenses for 2004 were 1.6% of net sales, or $108.3 million, versus 2.3%, or
$159.9 million, for 2003. In 2003, the Company recognized a $30.4 million non-cash pre-tax loss on
the sale of its Cosmolab and Photo Fashions businesses. Net interest expense decreased $15.0
million for 2004 compared to 2003 primarily as a result of lower average debt outstanding,
partially offset by increased interest rates. See Footnote 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further information.

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change
for 2004 was $86.3 million, compared to $337.3 million for 2003. The decrease relates to the
factors described above.

The effective tax rate was 122.1% for the year ended 2004 versus 36.8% for the year ended 2003.
The change in the effective tax rate is primarily related to the non-deductibility associated with
a portion of the Company’s $374.0 million impairment charge. See Footnotes 17 and 18 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Net (loss)/income before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change was
($19.1) million in 2004 versus $213.2 million in 2003. Diluted (loss)/earnings per share from
continuing operations was ($0.07) for 2004 compared to $0.78 for 2003.


Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $97.0 million in 2004 versus $259.8 million in
2003. Diluted loss per share from discontinued operations was $0.35 for 2004 compared to $0.95 for
2003. See Footnote 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Net loss for 2004 was $116.1 million compared to $46.6 million in 2003. Basic and diluted loss per
share in 2004 was $0.42 versus $0.17 in 2003. The increase in net loss and loss per share was
primarily due to the impairment charge recorded in 2004, partially offset by a decrease in the loss
recognized from discontinued operations. See Footnotes 2 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for additional information.

Results of Operations — 2003 vs. 2002

Net sales increased $462.1 million, or 7.2%, in 2003. The increase in sales is primarily related
to sales from recently acquired businesses of approximately $339.2 million, favorable foreign
currency of $217.1 million and core sales growth and other of $70.7 million, partially offset by a
decrease of $39.9 million in sales from the Cosmolab business divested in March 2003 and negative
pricing of $125.0 million

.

Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, in 2003 was 28.1%, or $1,937.2 million, versus 28.4%,
or $1,828.7 million, in 2002. The reduction in gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, is primarily related to unfavorable
pricing of $125 million, or 1.9% of net sales, partially offset by net productivity of $105
million, or 1.6% of net sales. Increased resin costs of $75 million negatively impacted gross
margin and is included as a reduction in net productivity. The favorable impact of the LENOX
acquisition (+0.7 points) was more than offset by unfavorable mix in the remainder of our
businesses.

Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) were 17.7% of net sales, or $1,221.5 million,
in 2003 and 18.1%, or $1,167.2 million, in 2002. The $54.3 million increase in SG&A related
primarily to recently acquired businesses of approximately $85 million. All other SG&A was down
$31 million with streamlining initiatives of $126 million more than offsetting increases from
currency translation, pension and strategic investments.

During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $34.5 million
associated with the decision to exit certain product lines. See Footnote 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for additional information.

The Company recorded pre-tax strategic restructuring charges of $184.0 million ($124.4 million
after tax) and $101.8 million ($67.7 million after tax) in 2003 and 2002, respectively. The 2003
pre-tax charge included $82.8 million of facility and other exit costs, $75.7 million of employee
severance and termination benefits, and $25.5 million of exited contractual commitments and other
restructuring costs. The 2002 pre-tax charge included $26.0 million of facility and other exit
costs, $67.3 million of employee severance and termination benefits, and $8.5 million of exited
contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. See Footnote 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information on the strategic restructuring plan.

Operating income in 2003 was 7.2% of net sales, or $497.2 million, versus 8.7% of net sales, or
$559.7 million, in 2002. The decrease in operating income is primarily the result of the factors
described above.

Income from continuing operations before income taxes and the cumulative effect of accounting
change in 2003 was $337.3 million, a $61.2 million decrease from $398.5 million in 2002. The
decrease relates primarily to the factors noted above.

The effective tax rate was 36.8% for the year ended 2003 versus 33.5% in the prior year. The
increase in the effective tax rate is primarily related to the utilization in 2002 of foreign net operating losses to offset earnings recorded in foreign tax jurisdictions. See Footnote 17
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

Net income before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change in 2003 was
$213.2 million, a $51.8 million decrease from $265.0 million in 2002. Diluted income per share
before discontinued operations and cumulative effect of accounting change was $0.78 in 2003
compared to $0.99 in 2002.


(Loss)/gain from discontinued operations, net of tax, was ($259.8) million in 2003 versus $46.5
million in 2002. Diluted (loss)/earnings per share from discontinued operations was ($0.95) for
2003 versus $0.17 for 2002. See Footnote 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information.

During the first quarter of 2002, the Company completed the required impairment tests of goodwill
and indefinite life intangible assets, which resulted in an impairment charge of $514.9 million,
net of tax. See Footnote 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
Company’s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets,” and the cumulative effect of accounting change for goodwill.

Net loss for 2003 was $46.6 million compared to $203.4 million in 2002. Basic and diluted loss per
share in 2003 was $0.17 versus $0.76 in 2002. The decrease in net loss and loss per share was
primarily due to the factors noted above.

Business Segment Operating Results

2004 vs. 2003 Business Segment Operating Results

The Company operates in five general segments:

Net sales by segment were as follows for the year ended December 31,

(in millions, except
percentages)

:



% Change

Cleaning & Organization

$1,858.1

$2,013.7

(7.7

)%

Office Products

1,686.2

1,681.2

0.3

Tools & Hardware

1,218.7

1,199.7

1.6

Home Fashions

906.8

901.0

0.6

Other

1,078.6

1,103.4

(2.2

)

Total Net Sales

$6,748.4

$6,899.0

(2.2

)%

Operating income by segment was as follows for the year ended December 31,

(in millions, except
percentages)

:



% Change

Cleaning & Organization

$90.8

$92.0

(1.3

)%

Office Products

261.9

309.6

(15.4

)

Tools & Hardware

181.8

179.3

1.4

Home Fashions

33.0

44.4

(25.7

)

Other

92.6

120.7

(23.3

)

Corporate

(39.4

)

(30.3

)

Impairment charge

(374.0

)

(34.5

)

Restructuring costs

(52.1

)

(184.0

)

Total Operating Income

$194.6

$497.2

(60.9

)%

Cleaning & Organization

Net sales for 2004 were $1,858.1 million, a decrease of $155.6 million, or 7.7%, from $2,013.7
million in 2003. The 7.7% sales decrease was driven primarily by a decline in the Rubbermaid Home
Products business due to planned low-margin product line rationalizations, partially offset by
favorable pricing and increases in core product lines in the Rubbermaid Foodservice, Rubbermaid
Commercial, and Rubbermaid Asia Pacific businesses.

Operating income for 2004 was $90.8 million, a decrease of $1.2 million, or 1.3%, from $92.0
million in 2003. The decrease in operating income is primarily the result of higher raw material
costs (primarily resin), partially offset by favorable pricing and improvement in Rubbermaid
Commercial and Rubbermaid Asia Pacific as a result of sales growth.


Office Products

Net sales for 2004 were $1,686.2 million, an increase of $5.0 million, or 0.3%, from $1,681.2
million in 2003. The increase in net sales primarily resulted from a single-digit increase in the
writing instruments business on the strength of new products, largely offset by the exit of low
margin resin based products in the Eldon office products business.

Operating income for 2004 was $261.9 million, a decrease of $47.7 million, or 15.4%, from $309.6
million in 2003. The decrease in operating income was driven by restructuring related costs in the
European writing instruments business and raw material inflation, primarily in resin costs in the
Eldon office products division, partially offset by improvement in the Sanford Latin America and
Sanford Asia Pacific businesses.

Tools & Hardware

Net sales for 2004 were $1,218.7 million, an increase of $19.0 million, or 1.6%, from $1,199.7
million in 2003. The increase in net sales was driven by increases in the LENOX and BernzOmatic
businesses.

Operating income for 2004 was $181.8 million, an increase of $2.5 million, or 1.4%, from $179.3
million in 2003. The improvement in operating income was generated primarily by productivity
savings, sales increases and streamlining initiatives, partially offset by raw material inflation.

Home Fashions

Net sales for 2004 were $906.8 million, an increase of $5.8 million, or 0.6%, from $901.0 million
in 2003. The increase in net sales was driven primarily by favorable foreign currency fluctuation,
partially offset by planned product line exits in the Swish UK business.

Operating income for 2004 was $33.0 million, a decrease of $11.4 million, or 25.7%, from $44.4
million in 2003. The decrease in operating income is primarily the result of raw material
inflation and charges related to the liquidation of certain product lines in the segment.

Other

Net sales for 2004 were $1,078.6 million, a decrease of $24.8 million, or 2.2%, from $1,103.4
million in 2003. The decrease in net sales was primarily attributable to the sale of Cosmolab in
March 2003, which contributed $10 million in sales in 2003, and declines experienced in the Graco
and Cookware Europe businesses.

Operating income for 2004 was $92.6 million, a decrease of $28.1 million, or 23.3%, from $120.7
million in 2003. The decrease in operating income was due primarily to sales decreases at Graco
and Cookware Europe and raw material inflation in resin based products.

2003 vs. 2002 Business Segment Operating Results

Net sales by segment were as follows for the year ended December 31,

(in millions, except
percentages)

:



% Change

Cleaning & Organization

$2,013.7

$1,901.8

5.9

%

Office Products

1,681.2

1,684.1

(0.2

)

Tools & Hardware

1,199.7

783.0

53.2

Home Fashions

901.0

955.7

(5.7

)

Other

1,103.4

1,112.3

(0.8

)

Total Net Sales

$6,899.0

$6,436.9

7.2

%


Operating income by segment was as follows for the year ended December 31,

(in millions)

:



% Change

Cleaning & Organization

$92.0

$169.0

(45.6

)%

Office Products

309.6

306.1

1.1

Tools & Hardware

179.3

79.2

126.4

Home Fashions

44.4

44.3

0.2

Other

120.7

94.0

28.4

Corporate

(30.3

)

(31.1

)

Impairment charge

(34.5

)

—

Restructuring costs

(184.0

)

(101.8

)

Total Operating Income

$497.2

$559.7

(11.2

)%

Cleaning & Organization

Net sales for 2003 were $2,013.7 million, an increase of $111.9 million, or 5.9%, from $1,901.8
million in 2002. The 5.9% sales growth was primarily due to mid single-digit sales growth at the
Rubbermaid Home Products division. The primary reason for the overall sales increase was continued
growth in sales of newer products, such as the Rubbermaid TakeAlongs®, the Tool Tower™, the Sports
Station™, the Endurance Cooler™ and other product offerings, partially offset by price reductions.

Operating income for 2003 was $92.0 million, a decrease of $77.0 million, or 45.6%, from $169.0
million in 2002. The decrease in operating income is primarily the result of higher raw material
costs (primarily resin) and pricing pressure on non-differentiated items in its Rubbermaid Home
Products business.

Office Products

Net sales for 2003 were $1,681.2 million, a decrease of $2.9 million, or 0.2%, from $1,684.1
million in 2002. The slight decrease in net sales primarily resulted from continued softness in
the commercial sector.

Operating income for 2003 was $309.6 million, an increase of $3.5 million, or 1.1%, from $306.1
million in 2002. Operating income was positively impacted by productivity and favorable mix
management, partially offset by increased investments in marketing initiatives.

Tools & Hardware

Net sales for 2003 were $1,199.7 million, an increase of $416.7 million, or 53.2%, from $783.0
million in 2002. The increase in net sales is primarily due to incremental sales resulting from
the LENOX and IRWIN acquisitions, including strong sales in the IRWIN North America division driven
by new products, most notably the success of the Strait-Line products.

Operating income for 2003 was $179.3 million, an increase of $100.1 million, or 126.4%, from $79.2
million in 2002. The improvement in operating income was driven by strong productivity, new
products and the acquisitions of LENOX and IRWIN.

Home Fashions

Net sales for 2003 were $901.0 million, a decrease of $54.7 million, or 5.7%, from $955.7 million
in 2002. The decrease in net sales was primarily attributable to the planned exit of low margin
product lines in the Levolor/Kirsch business.

Operating income for 2003 was $44.4 million, an increase of $0.1 million, or 0.2%, from $44.3
million in 2002. An improvement in Home Décor Europe was largely offset by decreases in
Levolor/Kirsch, primarily due to the reduction of sales.

Other

Net sales for 2003 were $1,103.4 million, a decrease of $8.9 million, or 0.8%, from $1,112.3
million in 2002. The decrease in sales resulted primarily from a $39.9 million decrease due to the
divestiture of the Cosmolab business, largely offset by strong sales in the high-end cookware
business.


Operating income for 2003 was $120.7 million, an increase of $26.7 million, or 28.4%, from $94.0
million in 2002. The main drivers of this increase in operating income were new product
introductions coupled with the increased sales in the high-end cookware business.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash and cash equivalents increased as follows for the year ended December 31,

(in millions)

:




Cash provided by operating activities

$660.0

$773.2

$868.9

Cash provided by/(used in) investing activities

189.6

(716.1

)

(486.5

)

Cash (used in)/provided by financing activities

(494.1

)

31.4

(334.9

)

Exchange effect on cash and cash equivalents

5.7

0.8

0.8

Increase in cash and cash equivalents

$361.2

$89.3

$48.3

Sources

The Company’s primary sources of liquidity and capital resources include cash provided by
operations, proceeds from divestitures and use of available borrowing facilities.

Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $660.0 million
compared to $773.2 million for the comparable period of 2003. The decrease in cash provided by
operating activities was due primarily to a reduction in the year-over-year improvement in working
capital and other assets in 2004 compared to 2003 and a reduction in cash received from the
termination of certain interest rate swap arrangements.

In 2004, the Company received cash proceeds of $262.8 million related to the sale of businesses,
compared to $10.2 million in 2003. The Company used a portion of the proceeds from the sale of
these businesses to pay off its commercial paper borrowings.

In 2004, the Company generated $55.3 million of cash related to the sale of other non-current
assets, primarily as a result of the sale of vacant facilities and equipment under the
restructuring program, a $21.6 million increase over 2003.

In 2004, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of debt of $33.9 million compared to
$1,044.0 million in 2003.

On January 10, 2003, the Company completed the sale of 6.67 million shares of its common stock at a
public offering price of $30.10 per share pursuant to a shelf registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Total proceeds from the sale were approximately $200.8
million, resulting in net proceeds to the Company, after expenses, of $200.1 million. The proceeds
were used to reduce the Company’s commercial paper borrowings.

The Company has a $1.05 billion universal shelf registration statement that became effective in
April 2003 under which debt and equity securities may be issued. In 2003, $400.0 million of medium
term notes were issued under this shelf registration statement, the proceeds of which were used to
pay down commercial paper.

The Company has short-term foreign and domestic uncommitted lines of credit with various banks that
are available for short-term financing. Borrowings under the Company’s uncommitted lines of credit
are subject to the discretion of the lender. The Company’s lines of credit do not have a material
impact on the Company’s liquidity. Borrowings under the Company’s lines of credit at December 31,
2004 and 2003 totaled $21.3 million and $21.9 million, respectively.

The Company completed a $1,300.0 million Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolver”) on
June 14, 2002. The Revolver consisted of a $650.0 million 364-day credit agreement and a $650.0
million five-year credit agreement. The Company did not roll over the 364-day credit agreement in
June of 2004, thereby reducing the


Revolver to $650.0 million in available credit as of December 31, 2004. The Company’s $650.0
million five-year Syndicated Revolving Credit Agreement that is scheduled to expire in June 2007
remains in place. At December 31, 2004, there were no borrowings under the Revolver.

In lieu of borrowings under the Revolver, the Company may issue up to $650.0 million of commercial
paper. The Revolver provides the committed backup liquidity required to issue commercial paper.
Accordingly, commercial paper may only be issued up to the amount available for borrowing under the
Revolver. At December 31, 2004, no commercial paper was outstanding.

The Revolver permits the Company to borrow funds on a variety of interest rate terms. The Revolver
requires, among other things, that the Company maintain certain Interest Coverage and Total
Indebtedness to Total Capital Ratio, as defined in the agreement. The agreement also limits
Subsidiary Indebtedness. As of December 31, 2004, the Company was in compliance with this
agreement.

Under a 2001 receivables facility with a financial institution, the Company created a financing
entity that is consolidated in the Company’s financial statements. Under this facility, the
Company regularly enters into transactions with the financing entity to sell an undivided interest
in substantially all of the Company’s United States trade receivables to the financing entity. In
2001, the financing entity issued $450.0 million in preferred debt securities to the financial
institution. Those preferred debt securities must be retired or redeemed before the Company can
have access to the financing entity’s receivables. Also, certain levels of accounts receivable
write-offs and other events would permit the financial institution to terminate the receivables
lending commitment and require redemption of the preferred debt securities. The receivables and
the $450.0 million preferred debt securities are recorded in the consolidated accounts of the
Company. Because this debt matures in 2008, the entire amount is considered to be long-term debt.
As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the aggregate amount of outstanding receivables sold under the
agreement was $720.9 million and $777.4 million, respectively.

Uses

The Company’s primary uses of liquidity and capital resources include acquisitions, payments on
notes payable, long-term debt, dividend payments and capital expenditures.

Cash used for acquisitions was $6.6 million in 2004, compared to $460.0 million in 2003. The cash
used in 2003 related primarily to the acquisition of LENOX, which was funded through the issuance
of commercial paper. The Company did not invest in significant acquisitions during 2004, as its
priority was the reduction of debt.

Capital expenditures were $121.9 million and $300.0 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The
decrease in capital expenditures is primarily due to the Company’s decision to reduce capital
investment in the Rubbermaid Home Products business and the sale of several capital intense
businesses.

In 2004, the Company made payments on notes payable and long-term debt of $298.4 million compared
to $989.6 million in 2003. In 2004, the Company purchased 825,000 shares of its Convertible
Preferred Securities from a holder for $43.6875 per share. The Company paid a total of $36.0
million. In the first quarter of 2005, the Company purchased 550,000 shares of its Preferred
Securities from a holder for $47.375 per share. The Company paid a total of $26.1 million.

Aggregate dividends paid were $231.0 million and $230.9 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Cash used for restructuring activities, including acquisition integration plans, was $90.1 million
and $127.5 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively. The cash payments primarily relate to employee
termination benefits.

In 2004, the Company made a voluntary $50.0 million cash contribution to fund the Company’s pension
plan. The Company expects to contribute $25.0 million to its foreign pension plans in 2005.

Retained earnings decreased in 2004 by $347.1 million. The reduction in retained earnings is due
to cash dividends paid on common stock and the current year net loss.


Working capital at December 31, 2004 was $1,141.1 million compared to $978.2 million at December
31, 2003. The current ratio at December 31, 2004 was 1.61:1 compared to 1.48:1 at December 31,
2003. The increase in working capital and the current ratio is due to an increase in cash on hand
at December 31, 2004 from the sale of businesses and fixed assets, partially offset by the pay-down
of debt, and an increase in inventory due to inventory build associated with improving service
levels.

Total debt to total capitalization (total debt is net of cash and cash equivalents, and total
capitalization includes total debt and stockholders’ equity) was .55:1 at December 31, 2004 and .58:1 at December 31, 2003.

The Company believes that cash provided from operations and available borrowing facilities will
continue to provide adequate support for the cash needs of existing businesses on a short-term
basis; however, certain events, such as significant acquisitions, could require additional external
financing on a long-term basis.

Pension Liability

Effective December 31, 2004, the Company froze its defined benefit pension plan for its entire
non-union U.S. workforce. As a result of this curtailment, the
Company will reduce its pension
obligation by $50.3 million and anticipates recording a curtailment gain
related to negative prior service cost in the first quarter of 2005 in the range of $14 to $16
million. The Company’s measurement date with respect to this plan is September 30

th

.
The Company offered a special termination benefit to certain of its employees that elected early
retirement and recorded a special termination benefit charge in the amount of $1.8 million in 2004.
The Company replaced the defined benefit pension plan with a defined contribution plan, whereby
the Company will make additional contributions to the Company’s sponsored employee profit sharing
plan. The new defined contribution has a five-year cliff-vesting schedule, but allows prior years
of service to be applied against the vesting.

Resolution of Income Tax Contingency

During the first quarter of 2005, the Company reached agreement with the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) relating to the appropriate treatment of a specific transaction reflected on the Company’s
2003 US federal income tax return. The Company requested accelerated review of the transaction
under the IRS’ Pre-Filing Agreement Program that resulted in affirmative resolution in late January
2005. The Company’s December 31, 2004 and 2003 balance sheet reflected a $58 million and $57
million contingency reserve, respectively, for this transaction pending resolution of the
appropriate treatment with the IRS. The benefit of this transaction will be recorded in the
Company’s first quarter 2005 income statement.

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company has various contractual obligations that are recorded as liabilities in its
consolidated financial statements. Certain other items, such as purchase commitments and other
executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial
statements but are required to be disclosed. Examples of items not recognized as liabilities in
the Company’s consolidated financial statements are commitments to purchase raw materials or
inventory that has not yet been received as of December 31, 2004 and future minimum lease payments
for the use of property and equipment under operating lease agreements.

The following table summarizes the effect that lease and other material contractual obligations
listed below are expected to have on the Company’s cash flow in the indicated period. In addition,
the table reflects the timing of principal and interest payments on borrowings outstanding as of
December 31, 2004. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the footnotes to
the consolidated financial statements, as referenced in the table

(in millions):

Payments Due by Period

Less

than

1-3

3-5

More than

Total

1 Year

Years

Years

5 Years

Long-term debt — maturities (1)

$2,609.9

$185.6

$416.2

$704.3

$1,303.8

Interest on long-term debt (2)

1,420.7

127.5

230.6

178.6

884.0


Payments Due by Period

Less

than

1-3

3-5

More than

Total

1 Year

Years

Years

5 Years

Operating lease obligations (3)

382.8

100.4

132.4

75.8

74.2

Purchase obligations (4)

510.1

488.3

19.4

0.6

1.8

Total contractual obligation (5)

$4,919.0

$901.6

$798.2

$955.6

$2,263.6

(1)

Amounts represent contractual obligations due, excluding interest, based on
borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2004. For further information relating to
these obligations, see Footnotes 9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)

Amount represents estimated interest expense on borrowings outstanding as of December
31, 2004. Interest on floating debt was estimated using the index rate in effect as of
December 31, 2004. For further information relating to this obligation, see Footnotes
9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)

Amounts represent contractual minimum lease obligations on operating leases as of
December 31, 2004. For further information relating to this obligation, see Footnote
12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(4)

Primarily consists of purchase commitments entered into as of December 31, 2004 for
finished goods, raw materials, components and services pursuant to legally enforceable
and binding obligations, which include all significant terms.

(5)

Total does not include contractual obligations reported on the December 31, 2004
balance sheet as current liabilities, except for current portion of long-term debt.

The Company also has obligations with respect to its pension and post retirement medical
benefit plans. See Footnote 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company had $100.7 million in standby letters of credit primarily
related to the Company’s self-insurance programs, including workers’ compensation, product
liability, and medical. See Footnote 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements,
as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.

Critical Accounting Policies

The Company’s accounting policies are more fully described in Footnote 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. As disclosed in Footnote 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts
reported in the financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Future events and their effects
cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires
the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such
differences may be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections
describe the Company’s critical accounting policies.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue from sales of merchandise and freight billed to customers is recognized when title passes
and all substantial risks of ownership change, which generally occurs upon shipment to customers.
Revenue is net of provisions for cash discounts, returns, customer discounts (such as volume or
trade discounts), co-op advertising and other sales related discounts.

Recovery of Accounts Receivable

The Company evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.
When aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations, such as in the
case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial
position, the Company records a specific reserve for bad debt to reduce the related receivable to
the amount the Company reasonably believes is collectible. The Company also records reserves for
bad debt for all other customers based on a variety of factors, including the length of time the
receivables are past due and historical collection experience. If circumstances related to
specific customers change, the Company’s estimates of the recoverability of receivables could be
further adjusted.

Inventory Reserves

The Company reduces its inventory value for estimated obsolete and slow moving inventory in an
amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the net realizable value based
upon assumptions about future


demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected
by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

The Company conducts its annual test of impairment for goodwill and indefinite life intangible
assets in the third quarter because it coincides with its annual strategic planning process for all
of its businesses. The Company also tests for impairment if events or circumstances occur
subsequent to the Company’s annual impairment tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair
value of a reporting unit or the indefinite life intangible asset below its carrying amount.

The Company cannot predict the occurrence of certain events that might adversely affect the
reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Such events may include, but are not
limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact
of the economic environment on the Company’s customer base, or a material negative change in its
relationships with significant customers.

The Company assesses the fair value of its reporting units for its goodwill and other indefinite
lived intangible assets (primarily trademarks and trade names) impairment tests, generally based
upon a discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows are estimated utilizing various
assumptions regarding future revenue and expenses, working capital, terminal value, and market
discount rates. The underlying assumptions used are consistent with those used in the strategic
plan.

If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than the fair value, goodwill impairment
may be present. The Company measures the goodwill impairment based upon the fair value of the
underlying assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible
assets, and estimates the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is recognized to the
extent the recorded goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill.

In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 142 in 2002, the Company performed the required impairment
tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets and recorded
a pre-tax impairment
charge of $538.0 million, ($514.9 million net of taxes).

If the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is
recorded to the extent the recorded intangible asset exceeds the fair value.

Product Liability Reserves

The Company has a self-insurance program for product liability that includes reserves for
self-retained losses and certain excess and aggregate risk transfer insurance. The Company uses
historical loss experience combined with actuarial evaluation methods, review of significant
individual files and the application of risk transfer programs in determining required product
liability reserves. As a result of the most recent analysis, the Company has estimated these
reserves at $25.5 million. The Company’s actuarial evaluation methods take into account claims
incurred but not reported when determining the Company’s product liability reserve. While the
Company believes that it has adequately reserved for these claims, the ultimate outcome of these
matters may exceed the amounts recorded by the Company and such additional losses may be material
to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Legal and Environmental Reserves

The Company is subject to losses resulting from extensive and evolving federal, state, local and
foreign laws and regulations, as well as, contract and other disputes. The Company evaluates the
potential legal and environmental losses relating to each specific case and determines the probable
loss based largely on historical experience. The estimated losses take into account anticipated
costs associated with investigative and remediation efforts, including legal fees, where an
assessment has indicated that a probable liability has been incurred and the cost can be reasonably
estimated. No insurance recovery is taken into account in determining the Company’s cost estimates
or reserve, nor do the Company’s cost estimates or reserve reflect any discounting for present
value purposes, except with respect to long-term operations and maintenance CERCLA matters which
are estimated at present value. See Footnote 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information.


Income Tax Contingencies

The Company establishes a tax contingency reserve for certain tax exposures when it is not probable
that the Company’s tax position will be ultimately sustained. The Company generally assesses its
tax contingency reserves on a quarterly basis. The Company adjusts a tax contingency reserve
balance when it becomes probable that the Company’s tax position will ultimately be sustained,
which generally occurs when the statute of limitations for a specific exposure item has expired or
when the Company has reached agreement with the taxing authorities on the treatment of an item.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

Refer to Footnote 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding recent
accounting pronouncements.

International Operations

The Company’s non-U.S. sales increased 1.4% in 2004, after increasing 13.0% in 2003. In both 2004
and 2003, the increases primarily related to foreign currency movement, largely in Europe. For the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company’s non-U.S. business accounted for
approximately 32%, 31% and 29% of net sales, respectively (see Footnote 20 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements). Changes in both U.S. and non-U.S. net sales are shown below for the years
ended December 31,

(in millions, except percentages)

:

2004 vs.

2003 vs.

2003 %

2002 %




Change

Change

Net sales:

U.S

$4,607.2

$4,788.2

$4,569.5

(3.8

)%

4.8

%

Non-U.S

2,141.2

2,110.8

1,867.4

1.4

13.0

$6,748.4

$6,899.0

$6,436.9

(2.2

)%

7.2

%

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements in this Report are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may relate
to, but are not limited to, information or assumptions about sales (including pricing),
income/(loss), earnings per share, return on equity, return on invested capital, capital
expenditures, working capital, cash flow, dividends, capital structure, debt to capitalization
ratios, interest rates, internal growth rates, restructuring, impairment and other charges,
potential losses on divestitures, impact of changes in accounting standards, pending legal
proceedings and claims (including environmental matters), future economic performance, operating
income improvements, costs and cost savings (including raw material inflation, productivity and
streamlining), synergies, management’s plans, goals and objectives for future operations and growth
or the assumptions relating to any of the forward-looking statements. The Company cautions that
forward-looking statements are not guarantees because there are inherent difficulties in predicting
future results. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ include, but are not
limited to, those matters set forth in this Report and Exhibit 99.1 to this Report.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market Risk

The Company’s primary market risk is impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign currency
exchange rates and certain commodity prices. Pursuant to the Company’s policies, natural hedging
techniques and derivative financial instruments may be utilized to reduce the impact of adverse
changes in market prices. The Company does not hold or issue derivative instruments for trading
purposes.


The Company manages interest rate exposure through its conservative debt ratio target and its mix
of fixed and floating rate debt. Interest rate swaps may be used to adjust interest rate exposures
when appropriate based on market conditions, and, for qualifying hedges, the interest differential
of swaps is included in interest expense.

The Company’s foreign exchange risk management policy emphasizes hedging anticipated intercompany
and third party commercial transaction exposures of one-year duration or less. The Company focuses
on natural hedging techniques of the following form:

•

offsetting or netting of like foreign currency cash flows,

•

structuring foreign subsidiary balance sheets with appropriate levels of debt to reduce
subsidiary net investments and subsidiary cash flows subject to conversion risk,

•

converting excess foreign currency deposits into U.S. dollars or the relevant functional currency and

•

avoidance of risk by denominating contracts in the appropriate functional currency.

In addition, the Company utilizes forward contracts and purchase options to hedge commercial and
intercompany transactions. Gains and losses related to qualifying hedges of commercial and
intercompany transactions are deferred and included in the basis of the underlying transactions.
Derivatives used to hedge intercompany loans are marked to market with the corresponding gains or
losses included in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.

The Company purchases certain raw materials, including resin, steel and aluminum, which are subject
to price volatility caused by unpredictable factors. While future movements of raw material costs
are uncertain, a variety of programs, including periodic raw material purchases, purchases of raw
materials for future delivery and customer price adjustments help the Company address this risk.
Generally, the Company does not use derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk.

The amounts shown below represent the estimated potential economic loss that the Company could
incur from adverse changes in either interest rates or foreign exchange rates using the
value-at-risk estimation model. The value-at-risk model uses historical foreign exchange rates and
interest rates to estimate the volatility and correlation of these rates in future periods. It
estimates a loss in fair market value using statistical modeling techniques that are based on a
variance/covariance approach and include substantially all market risk exposures (specifically
excluding equity-method investments). The fair value losses shown in the table below do not have
an impact on current results of operations or financial condition, but are shown as an illustration
of the impact of potential adverse changes in interest rates. The following table indicates the
calculated amounts for each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003

(in millions, except
percentages):


December 31,


December 31,

Confidence

Market Risk

Average


Average


Level

Interest rates

$12.1

$11.3

$20.0

$12.8


%

Foreign exchange

$2.2

$1.9

$1.3

$1.5


%

The 95% confidence interval signifies the Company’s degree of confidence that actual losses would
not exceed the estimated losses shown above. The amounts shown here disregard the possibility that
interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates could move in the Company’s favor. The
value-at-risk model assumes that all movements in these rates will be adverse. Actual experience
has shown that gains and losses tend to offset each other over time, and it is considered highly
unlikely that the Company could experience losses such as these over an extended period of time.
These amounts should not be considered projections of future losses, because actual results may
differ significantly depending upon activity in the global financial markets.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER
FINANCIAL REPORTING

The management of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. is responsible for the accuracy and internal consistency
of the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and footnotes contained in this annual
report. Management has followed those generally accepted accounting principles that it believes to
be most appropriate to the circumstances of the Company, and has made what it believes to be
reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates where necessary.

The Company’s management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. Newell Rubbermaid Inc. operates under a system of internal
accounting controls designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of published financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. The internal accounting control system is evaluated for
effectiveness by management and is tested, monitored and revised as necessary. All internal
control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those
systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial
statement preparation and presentation.

The Company’s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment, management believes that, as of December
31, 2004, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those
criteria.

The Company’s independent auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have audited the financial statements
prepared by the management of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. and management’s assessment of internal
control over financial reporting. Their reports on these financial statements, and on management’s
assessment of internal control over financial reporting, are presented below.

NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC.

Atlanta, Georgia

February 25, 2005


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Board of Directors and Stockholders

Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the
“Company”) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2004. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a).
These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. at December 31, 2004 and
2003, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.

As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2002, the
Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets to conform with
FASB Statement No. 142.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the effectiveness of Newell Rubbermaid Inc.’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated February 25, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Chicago, Illinois

February 25, 2005


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Board of Directors and Stockholders

Newell Rubbermaid Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying Management’s Responsibility
for Financial Statements and Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that
Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the Company) maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that the Company maintained effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on
the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the COSO
criteria

.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. as of December 31,
2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 of Newell Rubbermaid
Inc. and our report dated February 25, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Chicago, Illinois

February 25, 2005


Consolidated Statements of Operations

Year Ended December 31,




(Amounts in millions, except per share data)

Net sales

$6,748.4

$6,899.0

$6,436.9

Cost of products sold

4,857.9

4,961.8

4,608.2

Gross margin

1,890.5

1,937.2

1,828.7

Selling, general and administrative expenses

1,269.8

1,221.5

1,167.2

Impairment charge

374.0

34.5

—

Restructuring costs

52.1

184.0

101.8

Operating income

194.6

497.2

559.7

Nonoperating expenses:

Interest expense, net of interest income of
$10.4, $5.8, and $4.7 in 2004, 2003, and
2002, respectively

119.3

134.3

132.6

Other (income) expense, net

(11.0

)

25.6

28.6

Net nonoperating expenses

108.3

159.9

161.2

Income from continuing operations before income
taxes and cumulative effect of accounting
change

86.3

337.3

398.5

Income taxes

105.4

124.1

133.5

(Loss) income before discontinued operations
and cumulative effect of accounting change

(19.1

)

213.2

265.0

(Loss) gain from discontinued operations, net
of tax

(97.0

)

(259.8

)

46.5

Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of
tax benefit of $23.1 in 2002

—

—

(514.9

)

Net loss

($116.1

)

($46.6

)

($203.4

)

Weighted average shares outstanding:

Basic

274.4

274.1

267.1

Diluted

274.4

274.1

268.0

Per common share —

Basic

(Loss) income from continuing operations

($0.07

)

$   0.78

$   0.99

(Loss) income from discontinued operations

(0.35

)

(0.95

)

0.18

Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

—

(1.93

)

Net loss

($0.42

)

($0.17

)

($0.76

)

Diluted

(Loss) income from continuing operations

($0.07

)

$   0.78

$   0.99

(Loss) income from discontinued operations

(0.35

)

(0.95

)

0.17

Cumulative effect of accounting change

—

—

(1.92

)

Net loss

($0.42

)

($0.17

)

($0.76

)

Dividends

$   0.84

$   0.84

$   0.84

See Footnotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Consolidated Balance Sheets

December 31,



(Amounts in millions, except par value)

Assets

Current Assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$505.6

$144.4

Accounts receivable, net of allowances of $57.3
for 2004 and $62.5 for 2003

1,278.7

1,397.1

Inventories, net

972.3

884.8

Deferred income taxes

73.8

152.7

Prepaid expenses and other

182.0

183.1

Current assets of discontinued operations

—

238.1

Total Current Assets

3,012.4

3,000.2

Other long-term investments

15.5

15.5

Other assets

171.4

197.2

Property, plant and equipment, net

1,308.2

1,608.8

Deferred income taxes

29.6

68.1

Goodwill, net

1,824.6

1,989.0

Intangible assets, net

304.2

447.9

Non-current assets of discontinued operations

—

154.0

Total Assets

$6,665.9

$7,480.7

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

Current Liabilities:

Accounts payable

$682.9

$694.7

Accrued compensation

118.5

122.1

Other accrued liabilities

794.2

960.4

Income taxes

68.8

80.8

Notes payable

21.3

21.9

Current portion of long-term debt

185.6

13.5

Current liabilities of discontinued operations

—

128.6

Total Current Liabilities

1,871.3

2,022.0

Long-term debt

2,424.3

2,868.6

Other noncurrent liabilities

606.1

572.3

Long-term liabilities of discontinued operations

—

1.5

Stockholders’ Equity:

Common stock, authorized shares,
800.0 at $1.00 par value;

290.1

290.1

Outstanding shares:

2004 — 290.1

2003 — 290.1

Treasury stock, at cost;

(411.6

)

(411.6

)

Shares held:

2004 — 15.7

2003 — 15.7

Additional paid-in capital

437.5

439.9

Retained earnings

1,518.6

1,865.7

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(70.4

)

(167.8

)

Total Stockholders’ Equity

1,764.2

2,016.3

Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

$6,665.9

$7,480.7

See Footnotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Year Ended December 31,




(Amounts in millions)

Operating Activities

Net loss

($116.1

)

($46.6

)

($203.4

)

Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided
by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

249.1

246.8

251.0

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle

—

—

514.9

Noncash restructuring charges

30.9

138.3

74.9

Deferred income taxes

108.9

(11.5

)

48.3

(Gain) loss on sale of assets

(9.0

)

29.7

—

Noncash impairment charges — Continuing operations

374.0

34.5

—

Noncash impairment charges — Discontinued operations

—

254.9

—

Loss on disposal of discontinued operations

90.5

—

—

Other

(8.4

)

26.1

9.8

Changes in current accounts excluding the effects of
acquisitions:

Accounts receivable

163.0

27.3

(1.2

)

Inventories

(57.9

)

158.1

(7.3

)

Other current assets

(12.6

)

27.1

(45.0

)

Accounts payable

(26.2

)

74.9

108.2

Discontinued operations

(29.8

)

55.6

80.6

Accrued liabilities and other

(96.4

)

(242.0

)

38.1

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities

$660.0

$773.2

$868.9

Investing Activities

Acquisitions, net of cash acquired

($6.6

)

($460.0

)

($242.2

)

Expenditures for property, plant and equipment

(121.9

)

(300.0

)

(252.1

)

Sale of business, net of taxes paid

262.8

10.2

—

Disposals of noncurrent assets and other

55.3

33.7

7.8

Net Cash Provided by/(Used in) Investing Activities

$189.6

($716.1

)

($486.5

)

Financing Activities

Proceeds from issuance of debt

$33.9

$1,044.0

$772.0

Proceeds for issuance of stock

—

200.1

—

Payments on notes payable and long-term debt

(298.4

)

(989.6

)

(901.5

)

Cash dividends

(231.0

)

(230.9

)

(224.4

)

Proceeds from exercised stock options and other

1.4

7.8

19.0

Net Cash (Used in)/Provided by Financing Activities

($494.1

)

$31.4

($334.9

)

Exchange rate effect on cash

5.7

0.8

0.8

Increase in Cash and Cash Equivalents

361.2

89.3

48.3

Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year

144.4

55.1

6.8

Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year

$505.6

$144.4

$55.1

Supplemental cash flow disclosures — cash paid during
the year for:

Income taxes, net of refunds

$16.9

$63.5

$90.0

Interest

127.0

136.8

123.1

See Footnotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Loss

Accumulated

Add’l

Other

Total

(Amounts in millions,

Common

Treasury

Paid-In

Retained

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

except per share data)

Stock

Stock

Capital

Earnings

Loss

Equity

Balance at December 31, 2001

$282.4

($408.5

)

$219.8

$2,571.3

($231.6

)

$2,433.4

Comprehensive income/(loss)

Net loss

—

—

—

(203.4

)

—

(203.4

)

Foreign currency translation

—

—

—

—

98.0

98.0

Minimum pension liability
adjustment, net of ($43.5)
tax

—

—

—

—

(71.0

)

(71.0

)

Gain on derivative
instruments, net of ($8.8)
tax

—

—

—

—

14.4

14.4

Total comprehensive loss

(162.0

)

Cash dividends on common
stock ($0.84 per share)

—

—

—

(224.4

)

—

(224.4

)

Exercise of stock options

0.7

(1.4

)

17.1

—

—

16.4

Other

—

—

0.4

(0.3

)

—

0.1

Balance at December 31, 2002

$283.1

($409.9

)

$237.3

$2,143.2

($190.2

)

$2,063.5

Comprehensive income/(loss)

Net loss

—

—

—

(46.6

)

—

(46.6

)

Foreign currency translation

—

—

—

—

130.7

130.7

Minimum pension liability
adjustment, net of ($55.5)
tax

—

—

—

—

(114.5

)

(114.5

)

Gain on derivative
instruments, net of ($3.8)
tax

—

—

—

—

6.2

6.2

Total comprehensive loss

(24.2

)

Cash dividends on common
stock ($0.84 per share)

—

—

—

(230.9

)

—

(230.9

)

Exercise of stock options

0.3

(1.8

)

7.7

—

—

6.2

Issuance of stock

6.7

—

193.4

—

—

200.1

Other

—

0.1

1.5

—

—

1.6

Balance at December 31, 2003

$290.1

($411.6

)

$439.9

$1,865.7

($167.8

)

$2,016.3

Comprehensive income/(loss)

Net loss

—

—

—

(116.1

)

—

(116.1

)

Foreign currency translation

—

—

—

—

104.8

104.8

Minimum pension liability
adjustment, net of ($2.1)
tax

—

—

—

—

3.5

3.5

Loss on derivative
instruments, net of ($6.7)
tax

—

—

—

—

(10.9

)

(10.9

)

Total comprehensive loss

(18.7

)

Cash dividends on common
stock ($0.84 per share)

—

—

—

(231.0

)

—

(231.0

)

Exercise of stock options

—

—

1.4

—

—

1.4

Other

—

—

(3.8

)

—

—

(3.8

)

Balance at December 31, 2004

$290.1

($411.6

)

$437.5

$1,518.6

($70.4

)

$1,764.2

See Footnotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


FOOTNOTE 1

Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business:

Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (the “Company”) is a global manufacturer and
full-service marketer of name-brand consumer products serving the needs of volume purchasers,
including discount stores and warehouse clubs, home centers and hardware stores, office superstores
and contract stationers. The Company’s basic business strategy is to merchandise a multi-product
offering of everyday consumer products, backed by an obsession with customer service excellence and
new product development, in order to achieve maximum results for its stockholders. The Company’s
multi-product offering consists of name-brand consumer products in five business segments:
Cleaning & Organization; Office Products; Tools & Hardware; Home Fashions; and Other.

Principles of Consolidation:

The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the
Company, its majority owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities, where the Company is the
primary beneficiary, after elimination of intercompany transactions.

Use of Estimates:

The preparation of these financial statements requires the use of certain
estimates by management in determining the Company’s assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and
related disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications:

Certain 2003 and 2002 amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2004
presentation. See Footnote 2 for a discussion of discontinued operations.

Concentration of Credit Risk:

The Company sells products to customers in diversified industries
and geographic regions and, therefore, has no significant concentrations of credit risk. The
Company continuously evaluates the creditworthiness of its customers and generally does not require
collateral.

The Company evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable based on a combination of factors.
When aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations, such as in the
case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial
position, the Company records a specific reserve for bad debt to reduce the related receivable to
the amount the Company reasonably believes is collectible. The Company also records reserves for
bad debt for all other customers based on a variety of factors, including the length of time the
receivables are past due and historical collection experience. If circumstances related to
specific customers change, the Company’s estimates of the recoverability of receivables could be
further adjusted.

The Company’s interest rate swaps, short-term forward exchange contracts, and long-term cross
currency interest rate swaps do not subject the Company to risk due to foreign exchange rate
movement, because gains and losses on these instruments generally offset gains and losses on the
assets, liabilities, and other transactions being hedged. The Company is exposed to credit-related
losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to certain derivative financial
instruments. The Company does not obtain collateral or other security to support derivative
financial instruments subject to credit risk, but monitors the credit standing of the
counterparties.

The credit exposure that results from commodity, interest rate and foreign exchange contracts is
the fair value of contracts with a positive fair value as of the reporting date. Some derivatives
are not subject to credit exposures as of the reporting date.

Revenue Recognition:

Revenue from sales of merchandise and freight billed to customers is
recognized when title passes and all substantial risks of ownership change, which generally occurs
upon shipment to customers. Revenue is net of provisions for cash discounts, returns, customer
discounts (such as volume or trade discounts), co-op advertising and other sales related discounts.

Cash and Cash Equivalents:

Cash and highly liquid short-term investments have a maturity of three
months or less.

Inventories:

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value. The Company reduces its
inventory value for estimated obsolete and slow moving inventory in an amount equal to the
difference between the cost of


inventory and the net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market
conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management,
additional inventory write-downs may be required. Cost of certain domestic inventories
(approximately 58% and 54% of total inventories at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively) was
determined by the LIFO method; for the balance, cost was determined using the FIFO method.

Property, Plant and Equipment:

Property, plant, and equipment is stated at cost. Expenditures for
maintenance and repairs are charged to expense. Depreciation expense is calculated principally on
the straight-line basis. Maximum useful lives determined by the Company are: buildings and
improvements (20-40 years) and machinery and equipment (3-12 years).

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets:

Effective January 1, 2002, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (“SFAS 142”), “Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.” Under SFAS 142, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives
are no longer amortized, but are subject to periodic impairment tests. Other intangible assets
continue to be amortized over their useful lives.

The Company conducts its annual test of impairment for goodwill and indefinite life intangible
assets in the third quarter because it coincides with its annual strategic planning process for all
of its businesses. The Company also tests for impairment if events or circumstances occur
subsequent to the Company’s annual impairment tests that would more likely than not reduce the fair
value of a reporting unit or the indefinite life intangible asset below its carrying amount.

The Company cannot predict the occurrence of certain events that might adversely affect the
reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Such events may include, but are not
limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact
of the economic environment on the Company’s customer base, or a material negative change in its
relationships with significant customers.

The Company assesses the fair value of its reporting units for its goodwill and other indefinite
lived intangible assets (primarily trademarks and tradenames) impairment tests, generally based
upon a discounted cash flow methodology. The discounted cash flows are estimated utilizing various
assumptions regarding future revenue and expenses, working capital, terminal value, and market
discount rates. The underlying assumptions used are consistent with those used in the strategic
plan.

Goodwill Impairment

If the carrying amount of the reporting unit is greater than the fair value, goodwill impairment
may be present. The Company measures the goodwill impairment based upon the fair value of the
underlying assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible
assets, and estimates the implied fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is recognized to the
extent the recorded goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill.

In conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 142 in 2002, the Company performed the required impairment
tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets and recorded a pre-tax impairment
charge of $538.0 million, ($514.9 million net of taxes).

Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Asset Impairment (Primarily Trademarks and Trade names)

If the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is
recorded to the extent the recorded intangible asset exceeds the fair value.

See Footnotes 7 and 18 for additional detail on goodwill and other intangible assets.

Other Long-Lived Assets:

The Company periodically evaluates if there are impairment indicators
present related to its fixed assets and other long-lived assets. If impairment indicators are
present, future cash flows related to the asset group are estimated. These cash flows are
estimated utilizing various assumptions regarding future revenue and expenses, working capital, and
proceeds from asset disposals based on historical results and current projections. The sum of the
undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the asset group is then compared to the carrying


amount of the asset group. If the carrying amount of the asset group exceeded the sum of the
future undiscounted future cash flows, the Company generally determines the fair value of the
assets by discounting the future cash flows using a risk-free discount rate. An impairment charge
would be recorded to the extent that the carrying value of the long-lived assets exceeds their fair
value. Generally, the Company performs its evaluation of the long-lived asset group at the
product-line level, which represents the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are
available. See Footnote 18 for additional information.

Shipping and Handling Costs:

The Company records shipping and handling costs as a component of
costs of products sold.

Product Liability Reserves:

The Company has a self-insurance program for product liability that
includes reserves for self-retained losses and certain excess and aggregate risk transfer
insurance. The Company uses historical loss experience combined with actuarial evaluation methods,
review of significant individual files and the application of risk transfer programs in determining
required product liability reserves. As a result of the most recent analysis, the Company has
estimated these reserves at $25.5 million. The Company’s actuarial evaluation methods take into
account claims incurred but not reported when determining the Company’s product liability reserve.
While the Company believes that it has adequately reserved for these claims, the ultimate outcome
of these matters may exceed the amounts recorded by the Company and such additional losses may be
material to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Product Warranties:

In the normal course of business, the Company offers warranties for a variety
of its products. The specific terms and conditions of the warranties vary depending upon the
specific product and markets in which the products were sold. The Company accrues for the
estimated cost of product warranty at the time of sale based on historical experience.

Advertising Costs:

The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Cooperative advertising is
recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as a reduction of sales because it is viewed as
part of the negotiated price of products. Total cooperative advertising expense was $159.0
million, $179.2 million, and $195.5 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. All other
advertising costs are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses and totaled $133.6
million, $140.2 million, and $138.3 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.

Research and Development Costs:

Research and development costs relating to both future and current
products are charged to selling, general and administrative expenses as incurred. These costs
aggregated $106.1 million, $91.8 million, and $80.6 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.

Derivative Financial Instruments:

The Company follows SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended. Derivative financial instruments are used only to
manage certain commodity, interest rate and foreign currency risks. These instruments include
commodity swaps, interest rate swaps, long-term cross currency interest rate swaps, and forward
exchange contracts. The Company’s forward exchange contracts and long-term cross currency interest
rate swaps do not subject the Company to risk due to foreign exchange rate movement because gains
and losses on these instruments generally offset gains and losses on the assets, liabilities, and
other transactions being hedged.

On the date in which the Company enters into a derivative, the derivative is designated as a hedge
of the identified exposure. The Company measures effectiveness of its hedging relationships both
at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis.

Interest Rate Risk Management:

Gains and losses on interest rate swaps designated as cash flow
hedges, to the extent that the hedge relationship has been effective, are deferred in other
comprehensive income and recognized in interest expense over the period in which the Company
recognizes interest expense on the related debt instrument. Any ineffectiveness on these
instruments is immediately recognized in interest expense in the period that the ineffectiveness
occurs.

The Company also has designated certain interest rate swaps as fair value hedges. The Company has
structured all existing interest rate swap agreements to be 100% effective. These fair value
hedges qualify for the “shortcut method.” As a result, there is no current impact to earnings
resulting from hedge ineffectiveness. Gains or losses


resulting from the early termination of interest rate swaps are deferred as an increase or decrease
to the carrying value of the related debt and amortized as an adjustment to the yield of the
related debt instrument over the remaining period originally covered by the swap. The cash
received relating to the termination of interest rate swaps is included in Other as an operating
activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.

Foreign Currency Management:

The Company utilizes forward exchange contracts to manage foreign
exchange risk related to both known and anticipated intercompany transactions and third-party
commercial transaction exposures of approximately one year in duration or less. The Company also
utilizes long-term cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge long-term intercompany transactions.
Gains and losses related to qualifying forward exchange contracts, which hedge intercompany
transactions or third-party commercial transactions, are deferred in other comprehensive income
with a corresponding asset or liability until the underlying transaction occurs and are considered
to have a cash flow hedging relationship.

The asset or liability is recorded in the captions Prepaid expenses and other, Other assets, Other
accrued liabilities or Other noncurrent liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet depending on
the maturity of the Company’s cross currency interest rate swaps and forward contracts at December
31, 2004 and 2003. The earnings impact of cash flow hedges relating to forecasted purchases of
inventory is generally reported in cost of products sold to match the underlying transaction being
hedged. For hedged forecasted transactions, hedge accounting is discontinued if the forecasted
transaction is no longer probable of occurring, in which case previously deferred hedging gains or
losses would be recorded to earnings immediately. The gains and losses reported in accumulated
other comprehensive income will be reclassified to earnings upon completion of the underlying
transaction being hedged.

Derivative instruments used to hedge intercompany loans are marked to market with the corresponding
gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income and are considered to have a
fair value hedging relationship. Any ineffectiveness associated with the fair value hedges is
classified to the income statement.

Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments:

The Company’s financial instruments include
cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes payable and short and long-term debt. The
fair value of these instruments approximates carrying values due to their short-term duration,
except as follows:

Qualifying Derivative Instruments: The fair value of the Company’s qualifying derivative
instruments is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and is described in more detail in
Footnote 11.

Long-term Debt: The fair values of the Company’s long-term debt issued under the medium-term note
program and the junior convertible subordinated debentures were $1,705.4 million and $418.4
million, respectively, at December 31, 2004, based on quoted market prices. All other significant
long-term debt is pursuant to floating rate instruments whose carrying amounts approximate fair
value.

Foreign Currency Translation:

Foreign currency balance sheet accounts are translated into U.S.
dollars at the rates of exchange in effect at year-end. The related translation adjustments are
made directly to accumulated other comprehensive income. Income and expenses are translated at the
average monthly rates of exchange in effect during the year. Gains and losses from foreign
currency transactions of these subsidiaries are included in net income. International subsidiaries
operating in highly inflationary economies translate nonmonetary assets at historical rates, while
net monetary assets are translated at current rates, with the resulting translation adjustment
included in net income as other nonoperating (income) expenses.

Income Tax Contingencies:

The Company establishes a tax contingency reserve for certain tax
exposures when it is not probable that the Company’s tax position will be ultimately sustained.
The Company generally assesses its tax contingency reserves on a quarterly basis. The Company
adjusts a tax contingency reserve balance when it becomes probable that the Company’s tax position
will ultimately be sustained, which generally occurs when the statute of limitations for a specific
exposure item has expired or when the Company has reached agreement with the
taxing authorities on the treatment of an item.

Fair Value of Stock Options:

The Company’s stock option plans are accounted for under Accounting
Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” As a result,
the Company grants fixed stock options under which no compensation cost is recognized. Had
compensation cost for the plans been


determined consistent with SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock Based Compensation,” the Company’s
net income and earnings per share would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts for
the year ended December 31, (

in millions, except per share data)

:




Net loss:

As reported

($116.1

)

($46.6

)

($203.4

)

Fair value option expense

(14.2

)

(19.0

)

(16.3

)

Pro forma

($130.3

)

($65.6

)

($219.7

)

Basic loss per share:

As reported

($0.42

)

($0.17

)

($0.76

)

Pro forma

(0.47

)

(0.24

)

(0.82

)

Diluted loss per share:

As reported

($0.42

)

($0.17

)

($0.76

)

Pro forma

(0.47

)

(0.24

)

(0.82

)

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following assumptions used for grants in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively: risk-free interest rate of 4.2%, 4.0% and 4.0%; expected dividend yields of 3.0%,
3.0% and 3.0%; expected lives of 8.0, 6.9 and 6.9 years; and expected volatility of 30%, 32% and
32%.

Comprehensive Income:

Comprehensive income and accumulated other comprehensive income encompass
net income, foreign currency translation adjustments, net gains or losses on derivative instruments
and net minimum pension liability adjustments in the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
Equity and Comprehensive Income. The following table displays the components of accumulated other
comprehensive income or loss

(in millions)

:

Foreign

After-tax

After-tax

Accumulated

Currency

Minimum

Derivatives

Other

Translation

Pension

Hedging

Comprehensive

Gain

Liability

Gain/(Loss)

Loss

Balance at 12/31/03

$15.6

($190.0

)

$6.6

($167.8

)

Disposal of businesses

48.5

—

—

48.5

Other current year changes

56.3

3.5

(10.9

)

48.9

Balance at 12/31/04

$120.4

($186.5

)

($4.3

)

($70.4

)

The foreign currency translation gain is net of income taxes of $34.5 million and $80.1 million as
of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements:

In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS Statement No. 123 (SFAS
123) (revised), “Share-Based Payment.” SFAS 123(R) requires all share-based payments to employees,
including grants of employee stock options, to be recognized in the financial statements based on
their fair values (i.e., pro forma disclosure is no longer an alternative to financial statement
recognition). The Statement is effective at the beginning of the first interim period after June
15, 2005 and supersedes APB No. 25. The Company expects to adopt the provisions of the new
standard effective July 1, 2005. The Company believes the 2005 impact of adopting the new standard
will be $8 to $10 million in expense (which represents six months of expense as the standard is not
required to be adopted until July 1, 2005). The pro forma expense relating to options issued and
valued under the Black-Scholes model is disclosed in the “Fair Value of Stock Option” table above.

In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 109-1, “Application of FASB Statement No.
109 (SFAS 109), ‘Accounting for Income Taxes,’ to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production
Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004” (FSP 109-1). FSP 109-1 provides
that the manufacturer’s deduction created in the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act)
should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with SFAS 109 and not as a tax rate
reduction. The manufacturer’s deduction had no effect on the Company’s 2004 results, as the
deduction is first available to the Company in 2005. The Company is currently evaluating the
effect that the manufacturer’s deduction will have on future results.


In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. 109-2, “Accounting and Disclosure
Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision Within the American Jobs Creation Act of
2004” (FSP 109-2). The Act introduced a temporary incentive for U.S. multinationals to repatriate
earnings accumulated outside the U.S. by providing a one-time tax deduction of 85 percent for
certain foreign earnings from controlled foreign corporations. FSP 109-2 provides accounting and
disclosure guidance for the repatriation provision. The Company did not elect to apply this
provision in 2004 and may elect to apply this provision to qualifying repatriations in 2005. Due
to the complexity of the repatriation provision, the Company is still evaluating the effects of the
provision, including a definitive calculation of qualifying dividends and the effect of any
repatriation on the Company’s tax provision. The Company expects to complete its evaluation in
2005. The range of possible amounts the Company is currently considering eligible for repatriation
is between zero and $307.1 million. As of December 31, 2004, the related potential range of income
tax cannot be reasonably estimated.

FOOTNOTE 2

Discontinued Operations

The following table summarizes the results of businesses reported as discontinued operations for
the years ended December 31,

(in millions)

:




Net sales

$171.2

$851.0

$1,017.0

(Loss)/Gain from discontinued
operations, net of income taxes of
($3.0) million, ($57.4) million and
$23.5 million for 2004, 2003 and
2002, respectively.

($6.5

)

($259.8

)

$46.5

Loss on disposal of discontinued
operations, net of income taxes of
$4.7 million for 2004

($90.5

)

—

—

No amounts related to interest expense have been allocated to discontinued operations.

In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company began exploring various options for certain businesses
previously included in the Home Fashions and Other segments, including evaluating those
businesses for potential sale. As this process progressed, the Company obtained a better
indication of the market value of these businesses and determined that the businesses had a net
book value in excess of their fair value. Due to the apparent decline in value, the Company
conducted a new impairment test in the fourth quarter and recorded an impairment charge to write
the net assets of these businesses to fair value (or implied fair value of goodwill). As a
result, the Company recorded a noncash pretax write-down of $254.9 million on businesses
presented in discontinued operations as follows

(in millions):

Goodwill

$237.0

Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets

7.7

Long-Lived Assets

10.2

$254.9

The following table presents summarized balance sheet information of the discontinued operations as
of December 31, 2003 (

in millions

):

Accounts receivable, net

$45.5

Inventories, net

181.4

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

11.2

Total Current Assets

238.1

Property, plant and equipment, net

152.3

Other assets

1.7

Total Assets

$392.1


Accounts payable

$82.8

Other accrued liabilities

45.8

Total Current Liabilities

128.6

Long-term liabilities

1.5

Total Liabilities

$130.1

There were no assets or liabilities of discontinued operations as of December 31, 2004.

In January 2004, the Company completed the sale of its Panex Brazilian low-end cookware division
(previously reported in the Other operating segment) and European picture frames businesses
(previously reported in the Home Fashions operating segment).

In April 2004, the Company sold substantially all of its U.S. picture frame business (Burnes), its
Anchor Hocking glassware business and its Mirro cookware business. Under the terms of the
agreement and final adjustments relating to the transaction, the Company retained the accounts
receivable of the businesses of $76.6 million, and total proceeds, including the retained
receivables, as a result of the transaction were $304 million. The Burnes picture frame business
was previously reported in the Home Fashions operating segment, while the Anchor Hocking and Mirro
businesses were previously reported in the Other operating segment.

In July 2004, the Company completed the sale of Little Tikes Commercial Playground Systems Inc.
(“LTCPS”) to PlayPower, Inc. for approximately $41 million. LTCPS was previously reported in the
Other operating segment, as a unit of the Company’s Little Tikes division. LTCPS is a manufacturer
of commercial playground systems and contained playground environments. The Company retained the
consumer portion of its Little Tikes division.

The Panex Brazilian low-end cookware, European picture frames, U.S. picture frame business
(Burnes), Anchor Hocking glassware, Mirro cookware and LTCPS businesses have all been reclassified
from continuing operations to discontinued operations.

FOOTNOTE 3

Acquisitions of Businesses

2003:

Effective January 1, 2003, the Company completed its acquisition of American Saw & Mfg. Co.
(“LENOX”), a leading manufacturer of power tool accessories and hand tools marketed under the LENOX
brand. The purchase price was approximately $450 million paid for through the issuance of
commercial paper, plus transaction costs. The transaction structure permits the deduction of
goodwill for tax purposes. The present value of the future tax benefit is approximately $85.0
million. The Company allocated the purchase price to the identifiable assets. This acquisition
and the acquisition of American Tool Companies, Inc. (“IRWIN”) in 2002 marked a significant
expansion and enhancement of the Company’s product lines and customer base, launching it squarely
into the estimated $10 billion-plus global markets for hand tools and power tool accessories. Both
of these acquisitions are reported in the Company’s Tools & Hardware business segment. The
purchase price of the LENOX acquisition was allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities based
on their fair values, with any excess recorded as goodwill.

The transaction summarized above and other minor acquisitions were accounted for as purchases;
therefore, results of operations are included in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements
since their respective acquisition dates. The acquisition costs were allocated to the fair market
value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Included in other assets and intangibles
above is approximately $10.8 million of patents and other intangibles. The useful life of these
intangibles is approximately 10 years. The Company’s integration plans include exit costs for
certain plants and product lines and employee termination costs.


In 2003, the Company decided to abandon its plans to exit certain North American and European
facilities that were contemplated as part of the integration of certain acquired companies,
primarily in the Office Products business. As a result of this decision, the Company reversed
approximately $48.3 million in exit plan liabilities and reduced the cost of the acquired companies
(goodwill was reduced by $29.8 million and deferred tax assets were reduced by $18.5 million).

2002:

On April 30, 2002, the Company completed the purchase of IRWIN, a leading manufacturer of hand
tools and power tool accessories. The Company had previously held a 49.5% stake in IRWIN, which
had been accounted for under the equity method prior to acquisition. The purchase price was $467
million, which included $197 million for the majority 50.5% ownership stake, the repayment of $243
million in IRWIN debt and $27 million of transaction costs. At the time of acquisition, the
Company paid off IRWIN’s senior debt, senior subordinated debt and debt under their revolving
credit agreement. The Company allocated the purchase price to the identifiable assets. In 2002,
the Company recorded nonoperating expenses of $8.7 million for transaction costs associated with
the acquisition.

The Company formulated integration plans for IRWIN and other minor acquisitions as of the date of
acquisition. The final integration plans for these acquisitions resulted in integration plan
liabilities of $25.4 million for facility and other exit costs, $26.8 million for employee
severance and termination benefits and $40.9 million for other pre-acquisition contingencies. The
purchase price of the IRWIN and other minor acquisitions was allocated to the acquired assets and
liabilities based on their fair values, with any excess recorded as goodwill.

FOOTNOTE 4

Restructuring Costs

In the second quarter of 2004, the Company completed its accounting charges associated with its
strategic restructuring plan (the “Plan”) announced on May 3, 2001. The specific objectives of the
Plan were to streamline the Company’s supply chain to become the best-cost global provider
throughout the Company’s portfolio by reducing worldwide headcount and consolidating duplicative
manufacturing facilities. The Company recorded $461.7 million in restructuring charges under the
Plan, including $84.2 million on discontinued operations. In addition to the restructuring
activities outlined under the Plan, the Company recorded a fourth quarter charge of $4.2 million,
primarily related to the closure of one additional facility in the Other segment not contemplated
under the Plan. The following analysis excludes the restructuring amounts related to discontinued
operations.

Pre-tax restructuring costs consisted of the following for the year ended December 31,

(in
millions)

:




Facility and other exit costs

$44.6

$82.8

$26.0

Employee severance and termination benefits

8.1

75.7

67.3

Exited contractual commitments and other

(0.6

)

25.5

8.5

Recorded as Restructuring Costs

$52.1

$184.0

$101.8

Restructuring provisions were determined based on estimates prepared at the time the restructuring
actions were approved by management, and also include amounts recognized as incurred. In 2004, the
Company reduced its restructuring reserve by approximately $14.2 million, primarily as a result of
higher proceeds received from the sale of fixed assets and favorable negotiations on exited
contracts. Cash paid for restructuring activities was $80.0 million, $83.9 million and $52.9
million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. A summary of the Company’s restructuring plan
reserves is as follows

(in millions)

:

12/31/03

Costs

12/31/04

Balance

Provision

Incurred

Balance

Facility and other exit costs

$77.5

$44.6

($102.9

)

$19.2

Employee severance and termination benefits

61.8

8.1

(64.6

)

5.3

Exited contractual commitments and other

6.5

(0.6

)

(2.2

)

3.7

$145.8

$52.1

($169.7

)

$28.2


12/31/02

Costs

12/31/03

Balance

Provision

Incurred

Balance

Facility and other exit costs

$31.4

$82.8

($36.7

)

$77.5

Employee severance and termination benefits

36.4

75.7

(50.3

)

61.8

Exited contractual commitments and other

—

25.5

(19.0

)

6.5

$67.8

$184.0

($106.0

)

$145.8

The facility and other exit cost reserves are primarily related to future minimum lease payments on
vacated facilities and other closure costs.

Under the Plan, the Company exited 84 facilities and reduced headcount by approximately 12,000.
The Company expects total annual savings of between $125 and $150 million ($105 to $115 million
related to the reduced headcount, $10 to $20 million related to reduced depreciation, and $10 to
$15 million related to other cash savings). The following table depicts the changes in accrued
restructuring reserves for the year ended December 31, aggregated by reportable business segment

(in millions)

:

12/31/03

Costs

12/31/04

Segment

Balance

Provision

Incurred

Balance

Cleaning & Organization

$56.2

$23.3

($76.0

)

$3.5

Office Products

29.9

10.3

(27.6

)

12.6

Tools & Hardware

17.9

1.9

(16.7

)

3.1

Home Fashions

17.7

7.3

(24.1

)

0.9

Other

9.6

13.2

(20.3

)

2.5

Corporate

14.5

(3.9

)

(5.0

)

5.6

$145.8

$52.1

($169.7

)

$28.2

12/31/02

Costs

12/31/03

Segment

Balance

Provision

Incurred

Balance

Cleaning & Organization

$3.8

$73.8

($21.4

)

$56.2

Office Products

27.2

41.9

(39.2

)

29.9

Tools & Hardware

0.5

21.8

(4.4

)

17.9

Home Fashions

12.4

26.1

(20.8

)

17.7

Other

3.6

7.8

(1.8

)

9.6

Corporate

20.3

12.6

(18.4

)

14.5

$67.8

$184.0

($106.0

)

$145.8

The $12.6 million restructuring reserve at December 31, 2004 in the Company’s Office Products
operating segment consists primarily of a $6.7 million reserve for the closure of one manufacturing
facility and $2.0 million for the closure of a distribution center. The Company expects to incur
$4.5 million in severance charges for the closure of the manufacturing facility.

The $5.6 million restructuring reserve at December 31, 2004 in the Company’s Corporate segment
consists primarily of a $4.4 million reserve for vacant facilities and $1.1 million reserve for
severance.

FOOTNOTE 5

Inventories

The components of net inventories were as follows as of December 31, (

in millions

):



Materials and supplies

$222.5

$240.4

Work in process

171.3

115.4

Finished products

578.5

529.0

$972.3

$884.8


The Company recognized a gain of $0.6 million and a loss of $5.1 million in 2004 and 2003,
respectively, related to the liquidation of LIFO based inventories.

FOOTNOTE 6

Property, Plant & Equipment

Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following as of December 31, (

in millions

):



Land

$50.9

$60.1

Buildings and improvements

550.7

704.0

Machinery and equipment

1,791.9

2,166.6

2,393.5

2,930.7

Accumulated depreciation

(1,085.3

)

(1,321.9

)

$1,308.2

$1,608.8

Depreciation expense was $239.1 million, $240.5 million, and $241.9 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

FOOTNOTE 7

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

A summary of changes in the Company’s goodwill during the years ended December 31,

(in millions)

:



Balance at January 1,

$1,989.0

$1,610.3

Acquisitions, dispositions and adjustments —
IRWIN (Tools & Hardware segment)

—

63.4

LENOX (Tools & Hardware segment)

—

290.6

Impairment charges (See Footnote 18)

(182.7

)

(5.0

)

Abandonment of integration plan in Office
Products segment (See Footnote 3)

—

(29.8

)

Other (primarily foreign exchange)

18.3

59.5

Balance at December 31,

$1,824.6

$1,989.0

Other intangible assets consisted of the following as of December 31, (

in millions

):



Average Amortization Period

Trade names

$257.5

$402.2

Indefinite

Patents

28.3

31.2

14 years

Customer lists

14.3

14.3

10 years

Capitalized software

49.4

56.1

8 years

Noncompete agreements

11.0

10.5

3 years

Other

0.3

1.0

3 years

360.8

515.3

Accumulated amortization

(56.6

)

(67.4

)

$304.2

$447.9

Intangible amortization expense was $10.0 million, $6.3 million and $9.1 million in 2004, 2003, and
2002, respectively. The Company expects amortization expense to approximate $9 million in 2005 and
remain consistent


thereafter, although such amounts may vary based on fluctuations in foreign currency rates,
business acquisitions or divestitures, or recognized impairment charges.

FOOTNOTE 8

Other Accrued Liabilities

Accrued liabilities included the following as of December 31, (

in millions

):



Customer accruals

$298.4

$230.1

Accrued purchase accounting (See Footnote 3)

1.7

12.2

Accrued self-insurance liability

89.8

85.7

Accrued restructuring (See Footnote 4)

28.2

145.8

Accrued pension and other postemployment benefits

50.0

130.0

Accruals for inventory received, not invoiced

75.4

86.9

Accrued medical and life insurance

23.4

29.2

Accrued interest

26.6

26.1

Employee withholdings

15.8

25.0

Accrued contingencies

31.1

51.4

Other

153.8

138.0

Other accrued liabilities

$794.2

$960.4

Customer accruals are promotional allowances and rebates, including coop advertising, given to
customers in exchange for their selling efforts. The self-insurance accrual is primarily casualty
liabilities such as workers’ compensation, general and product liability and auto liability and is
estimated based upon historical loss experience combined with actuarial evaluation methods, review
of significant individual files and the application of risk transfer programs.

FOOTNOTE 9

Credit Arrangements

The Company has short-term foreign and domestic uncommitted lines of credit with various banks that
are available for short-term financing. Borrowings under the Company’s uncommitted lines of credit
are subject to the discretion of the lender. The Company’s lines of credit do not have a material
impact on the Company’s liquidity. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the Company had notes payable
to banks in the amount of $21.3 million and $21.9 million, respectively, with weighted average
interest rates of 11.2% and 9.0%, respectively.

The Company completed a $1,300.0 million Syndicated Revolving Credit Facility (the “Revolver”) on
June 14, 2002. The Revolver consisted of a $650.0 million 364-day credit agreement and a $650.0
million five-year credit agreement. The Company did not roll over the 364-day credit agreement in
June of 2004, thereby reducing the Revolver to $650.0 million in available credit as of December
31, 2004. The Company’s $650.0 million five-year Syndicated Revolving Credit Agreement that is
scheduled to expire in June 2007 remains in place. At December 31, 2004, there were no borrowings
under the Revolver.

In lieu of borrowings under the Revolver, the Company may issue up to $650.0 million of commercial
paper. The Revolver provides the committed backup liquidity required to issue commercial paper.
Accordingly, commercial paper may only be issued up to the amount available for borrowing under the
Revolver. At December 31, 2004, no commercial paper was outstanding.

The Revolver permits the Company to borrow funds on a variety of interest rate terms. The Revolver
requires, among other things, that the Company maintain certain Interest Coverage and Total
Indebtedness to Total Capital Ratio, as defined in the agreement. The agreement also limits
Subsidiary Indebtedness. As of December 31, 2004, the Company was in compliance with this
agreement.


The following table summarizes the Company’s commercial paper obligations as of December 31, (

in
millions, except percentages

):



Outstanding at year-end

— borrowing

$—

$217.1

— average interest rate

—

1.2

%

Average borrowings for the year

— borrowing

$66.3

$482.6

— average interest rate

1.1

%

1.3

%

FOOTNOTE 10

Long-term Debt

The following is a summary of long-term debt as of December 31, (

in millions

):



Medium-term notes (maturities ranging from 2 to
30 years, average interest rate of 5.35%)

$1,647.0

$1,647.0

Commercial paper (See Footnote 9)

—

217.1

Preferred debt securities

450.0

450.0

Junior convertible subordinated debentures

474.3

515.5

Terminated interest rate swaps (See Footnote 11)

38.3

46.7

Other long-term debt

0.3

5.8

Total debt

2,609.9

2,882.1

Current portion of long-term debt

(185.6

)

(13.5

)

Long-term debt

$2,424.3

$2,868.6

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt outstanding are as follows as of December 31, 2004 (

in
millions

):






Thereafter

Total

$185.6

$162.8

$253.4

$452.0

$252.3

$1,303.8

$2,609.9

The medium-term notes, revolving credit agreement (and related commercial paper), preferred debt
securities, and junior convertible subordinated debentures are all unsecured.

Preferred Debt Securities: The Company has an agreement with a financial institution creating a
financing entity that is consolidated in the financial statements. Under the agreement, the
Company regularly enters into transactions with the financing entity to sell an undivided interest
in substantially all of the Company’s United States trade receivables to the financing entity. In
2001, the financing entity issued $450.0 million in preferred debt securities to the financial
institution. Those preferred debt securities must be retired or redeemed before the Company can
have access to the financing entity’s receivables. The receivables and the corresponding $450.0
million preferred debt issued by the subsidiary to the financial institution are recorded in the
consolidated accounts of the Company. Because this debt matures in 2008, the entire amount is
considered to be long-term debt. As of December 31, 2004, the Company was in compliance with the
agreement. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the aggregate amount of outstanding receivables sold
under the agreement was $720.9 million and $777.4 million, respectively.

Junior Convertible Subordinated Debentures: As of December 31, 2004, the Company fully and
unconditionally guarantees 9.2 million shares of 5.25% convertible preferred securities issued by a
100% owned finance subsidiary of the Company, which are callable at 101.575% of the liquidation
preference, decreasing over time to 100% by December 2007. Each of these “Preferred Securities” is
convertible into 0.9865 of a share of Company common stock, and is entitled to a quarterly cash
distribution at the annual rate of $2.625 per share.


The proceeds of the Preferred Securities were invested in $515.5 million of the Company’s 5.25%
Junior Convertible Subordinated Debentures (“Debentures”). The Debentures are the sole assets of
the subsidiary trust, mature on December 1, 2027, bear interest at an annual rate of 5.25%, are
payable quarterly and became redeemable by the Company beginning in December 2001. The Company may
defer interest payments on the Debentures for a period of up to 20 consecutive quarters, during
which period distribution payments on the Preferred Securities are also deferred. Under this
circumstance, the Company may not declare or pay any cash distributions with respect to its common
or preferred stock or debt securities that do not rank senior to the Debentures. As of December
31, 2004, the Company has not elected to defer interest payments.

In October 2004, the Company purchased 825,000 shares of its Preferred Securities from a holder for
$43.6875 per share. In connection with the purchase of these securities, the Company negotiated
the early retirement of the corresponding Debentures with the subsidiary trust. The Company
accounted for this transaction as an extinguishment of debt resulting in a net gain of $4.4
million, which was included in Other (income) expense, net.

Terminated Interest Rate Swaps: At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the carrying amount of long-term
debt and current maturities thereof includes $38.3 million (of which $13.6 million was classified
as current) and $46.7 million (of which $13.3 million was classified as current), respectively,
relating to terminated interest rate swap agreements.

Effective March 9, 2004, the Company terminated an interest rate swap agreement prior to the
scheduled maturity date and received cash of $9.2 million. Of this amount, $5.5 million represents
the fair value of the swap that was terminated and the remainder represents net interest receivable
on the swap. The cash received relating to the fair value of the swap has been included in Other
as an operating activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. On March 9, 2004, the
Company entered into a fixed to floating rate swap that effectively replaced the terminated swap.

FOOTNOTE 11

Derivative Financial Instruments

Interest Rate Risk Management: At December 31, 2004, the Company had interest rate swaps
designated as fair value hedges with an outstanding notional principal amount of $800.0 million,
with a net accrued interest receivable of $0.4 million. These fair value hedges qualify for the
“shortcut method” because these hedges are deemed to be perfectly effective. There is no credit
exposure on the Company’s interest rate derivatives at December 31, 2004.

At December 31, 2004, the Company had long-term cross currency interest rate swaps with an
outstanding notional principal amount of $440.2 million, with a net accrued interest payable of
$0.1 million. The maturities on these long-term cross currency interest rate swaps range from
three to five years.

Foreign Currency Management: The following table summarizes the Company’s forward exchange
contracts and long-term cross currency interest rate swaps in U.S. dollars by major currency and
contractual amount. The “buy” amounts represent the U.S. equivalent of commitments to purchase
foreign currencies, and the “sell” amounts represent the U.S. equivalent of commitments to sell
foreign currencies according to the local needs of the subsidiaries. The contractual amounts of
significant forward exchange contracts and long-term cross currency interest rate swaps and their
fair values as of December 31 were as follows (

in millions

):



Buy

Sell

Buy

Sell

British Pounds

$269.9

$66.2

$251.8

$459.9

Canadian Dollars

2.6

145.4

0.9

83.2

Euro

61.0

516.5

283.9

499.5

Other

29.8

57.8

41.8

5.5

$363.3

$785.9

$578.4

$1,048.1

Fair Value

$491.4

$1,004.2

$661.4

$1,175.7


Credit exposure on foreign currency derivatives at December 31, 2004 and 2003 was $12.5 million and
$11.6 million, respectively.

The net loss recognized in 2004 and 2003 for matured natural gas and cash flow forward exchange
contracts was $8.9 million and $2.9 million, net of tax, respectively, which was recognized in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company estimates that $5.6 million of losses, net of
tax, deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, will be recognized in earnings in 2005.

FOOTNOTE 12

Leases

The Company leases manufacturing and warehouse facilities, real estate, transportation, data
processing and other equipment under leases that expire at various dates through the year 2018.
Rent expense was $132.2 million, $122.4 million and $115.3 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

Future minimum rental payments for operating leases with initial or remaining terms in excess of
one year are as follows as of December 31, 2004 (

in millions

):






Thereafter

Total

$100.4

$76.0

$56.4

$40.7

$35.1

$74.2

$382.8

FOOTNOTE 13

Employee Benefit and Retirement Plans

As of December 31, 2004, the Company maintained various deferred compensation plans with varying
terms. The total liability associated with these plans was $64.9 million and $62.1 million as of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These liabilities are included in Other Noncurrent
Liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These plans are partially funded with asset
balances of $35.3 million and $48.3 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These
assets are included in Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The Company has a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”), which is a nonqualified defined
benefit plan pursuant to which the Company will pay supplemental pension benefits to certain key
employees upon retirement based upon the employees’ years of service and compensation. The SERP is
being funded through a trust agreement with the Northern Trust Company, as trustee, that owns life
insurance policies on key employees. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, the life insurance contracts
had a cash surrender value of $68.9 million and $68.2 million, respectively. These assets are
included in Other Assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The projected benefit obligation was
$78.2 million and $77.5 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The SERP liabilities
are included in the pension table below; however, the Company’s investment in the life insurance
contracts are excluded from the table as they do not qualify as plan assets under SFAS No. 87,
“Employers’ Accounting for Pensions.”

The Company and its subsidiaries have noncontributory pension, profit sharing and contributory
401(k) plans covering substantially all of their foreign and domestic employees. Pension plan
benefits are generally based on years of service and/or compensation. The Company’s funding policy
is to contribute not less than the minimum amounts required by the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended or local statutes
to assure that plan assets will be adequate to provide retirement benefits.

The Company’s matching contributions to the contributory 401(k) plans were $18.7 million, $21.1
million and $21.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In
addition, several of the Company’s subsidiaries currently provide retiree health care and life
insurance benefits for certain employee groups.

The Company uses a
September 30

th

measurement date for the majority of its plans. The following
provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of the Company’s
noncontributory pension plans, SERP and postretirement benefit plans as of December 31, (

in
millions, except percentages

):


Other Postretirement

Pension Benefits

Benefits





Change in benefit obligation:

Benefit obligation at January 1

$1,239.4

$991.1

$263.8

$219.0

Service cost

50.3

43.9

4.5

5.0

Interest cost

78.5

66.4

14.2

16.2

Amendments

0.6

(6.6

)

—

(8.8

)

Actuarial (gain) loss

(24.6

)

137.2

(18.8

)

39.4

Acquisitions and other

31.0

37.4

—

17.4

Currency translation

33.4

38.4

—

—

Benefits paid from plan assets

(74.4

)

(68.4

)

(25.1

)

(24.4

)

Curtailments, settlement costs

(7.8

)

—

—

—

Benefit obligation at December 31

$1,326.4

$1,239.4

$238.6

$263.8

Change in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets at January 1

$822.7

$728.3

$—

$—

Actual return on plan assets

81.7

90.8

—

—

Acquisitions and other

26.2

37.8

—

—

Contributions

75.5

16.2

25.1

24.4

Currency translation

22.2

18.0

—

—

Benefits paid from plan assets

(74.4

)

(68.4

)

(25.1

)

(24.4

)

Settlement charges and other

(3.5

)

—

—

—

Fair value of plan assets at December 31

$950.4

$822.7

$—

$—

Funded Status:

Funded status at December 31

($376.0

)

($416.7

)

($238.6

)

($263.8

)

Unrecognized
net loss and other

388.6

415.9

40.7

60.1

Unrecognized prior service cost

(1.2

)

(2.8

)

(8.2

)

(8.7

)

Net amount recognized

$11.4

($3.6

)

($206.1

)

($212.4

)

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets:

Prepaid benefit cost (1)

$166.0

$44.1

$—

$—

Intangible asset (1)

10.6

4.2

—

—

Accrued benefit cost (2)

(463.3

)

(353.6

)

(206.1

)

(212.4

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

298.1

301.7

—

—

Net amount recognized

$11.4

($3.6

)

($206.1

)

($212.4

)

Accumulated benefit obligation

$1,264.6

$1,138.6

$238.6

$263.8

Weighted-average assumptions used to
determine benefit obligation:

Discount rate

6.07

%

6.14

%

6.25

%

6.25

%

Long-term rate of return on plan assets

8.13

%

8.23

%

N/A

N/A

Long-term rate of compensation increase

4.43

%

4.44

%

N/A

N/A

(1) Recorded in Other Assets

(2) Recorded in Other Accrued Liabilities and Other Noncurrent Liabilities


Pension Benefits

Other Postretirement Benefits





Weighted-average assumptions used to
determine net periodic benefit cost:

Discount rate

6.14

%

6.48

%

6.25%

6.75%

Long-term rate of return on plan assets

8.23

%

8.29

%

N/A

N/A

Long-term rate of compensation increase

4.44

%

4.33

%

N/A

N/A

Health care cost trend rate

N/A

N/A

6.0%

6.0%

Net pension expense and other postretirement benefit expense include the following components as of
December 31, (

in millions

):

Pension Benefits

Other Postretirement Benefits







Service cost-benefits earned during the year

$50.3

$43.9

$40.0

$4.5

$5.0

$4.2

Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

78.5

66.4

64.9

14.2

16.2

15.6

Expected return on plan assets

(87.3

)

(85.7

)

(99.2

)

—

—

—

Amortization of:

Prior service cost

(0.4

)

(0.2

)

(0.2

)

(0.6

)

0.2

—

Actuarial loss

6.9

1.7

0.8

0.6

—

—

Curtailment, settlement & special
termination benefit costs

(1.1

)

16.0

1.4

—

—

—

Net pension expense

$46.9

$42.1

$7.7

$18.7

$21.4

$19.8

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for
the pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets are as follows as
of December 31, (

in millions

):



Projected benefit obligation

($1,326.0

)

($1,180.1

)

Accumulated benefit obligation

(1,264.2

)

(1,081.1

)

Fair value of plan assets

950.1

747.9

The Company’s pension plans are currently under-funded. In accordance with Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 87, “Employers’ Accounting for Pensions,” the Company has
recorded an additional minimum pension liability adjustment at December 31, 2004. In 2004, the
Company reduced the charge to equity by $3.5 million, net of tax. The reduction to stockholders’
equity did not affect net income, but is included in other comprehensive income. The Company
believes that its pension plan has the appropriate long-term investment strategy and the Company’s
liquidity position is expected to remain strong.

Assumed health care cost trends have been used in the valuation of postretirement benefits. The
trend rate is 10% (for retirees under age 65) and 12% (for retirees over age 65) in 2004, declining
to 6% for all retirees in 2011 and thereafter.

The health care cost trend rate significantly affects the reported postretirement benefit costs and
obligations. A one-percentage point change in the assumed rate would have the following effects
(

in millions

):

1% Increase

1% Decrease

Effect on total of service and interest cost
components

$2.0

($1.8)

Effect on postretirement benefit obligations

21.0

(19.3)

The Company’s total domestic plan assets were $646.6 million and $585.6 million at December 31,
2004 and 2003, respectively. The expected long-term rate of return on domestic plan assets used to
determine net periodic benefit cost was 8.5% for both years ending December 31, 2004 and 2003. The
Company’s domestic pension plan weighted-average asset allocation at December 31, 2004 and 2003, by
asset category, are as follows:



Equity securities

65.0

%

67.4

%

Debt securities

24.5

%

27.7

%

Real estate

4.6

%

2.1

%

Other

5.9

%

2.8

%

Total

100.0

%

100.0

%


The Company employs a total return investment approach whereby a mix of equities and fixed income
investments is used to maximize the long-term return of plan assets for a prudent level of risk.
Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded
status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolio is comprised of a diversified
blend of equity, real estate and fixed income investments. Equity investments include large and
small market capitalization stocks as well as growth, value and international stock positions. The
Company’s common stock comprised $41.1 million and $50.3 million of noncontributory pension plan
assets at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

The Company employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return for plan
assets. Historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships between equities and
fixed-income are preserved consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that assets
with higher volatility generate a greater return over the long run. Current market factors, such
as inflation and interest rates, are evaluated before long-term capital market assumptions are
determined. The long-term portfolio return is established via a building block approach with
proper consideration of diversification and rebalancing. Peer data and historical returns are
reviewed to check for reasonableness and appropriateness.

In the third quarter of 2004, the Company made a voluntary $50.0 million cash contribution to fund
the Company’s U.S. defined pension plan. The Company expects to contribute $25.0 million to its
foreign pension plans in 2005.

Estimated future benefit payments under the Company’s defined benefit plans are as follows as of
December 31, 2004 (

in millions

):






2010-2014

Pension Benefits

$67.7

$68.2

$69.4

$71.9

$73.9

$397.7

Other Postretirement Benefits

24.6

23.1

21.7

19.4

18.4

88.8

The other postretirement benefit payments are net of the annual Medicare Part D subsidy of
approximately $12 million per year beginning in fiscal 2006.

Effective December 31, 2004, the Company froze its defined benefit pension plan for its entire
non-union U.S. workforce. As a result of this curtailment, the Company expects to reduce its
pension obligation by $50.3 million and anticipates recording a curtailment gain related to
negative prior service cost in the first quarter of 2005 in the range of $14 to $16 million. In
conjunction with this action, the Company offered special termination benefits to certain employees
that accepted early retirement. The Company recorded a special termination benefit charge of $1.8
million in 2004. The Company replaced the defined benefit pension plan with an additional defined
contribution plan, whereby the Company will make additional contributions to the Company sponsored
employee’s profit sharing plan. The new defined contribution plan has a five-year cliff-vesting
schedule, but allows credit for service rendered prior to the inception of the defined contribution
plan.

On December 8, 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the
“Drug Act”) was signed into law. The Drug Act introduced a prescription drug benefit under
Medicare (Medicare Part D) as well as a federal subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit
plans that provide a benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D. In
January 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. 106-1, “Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.”
Due to the levels of benefits provided under the Company’s health care plans, management has
concluded that the Company’s health care plans are at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part
D. The Company initially elected to defer recognition of the benefit to its postretirement
healthcare plans. In April 2004, the Company sold certain businesses that resulted in a plan
curtailment and a subsequent expiration of the election to defer. As a result, the Company
re-measured its postretirement benefit obligation and expense.


FOOTNOTE 14

Earnings per Share

The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2004,
2003, and 2002, respectively, is shown below

(in millions, except per share data):

Convertible

Dilutive

Preferred

Basic Method

Securities(1)

Securities(2)

Diluted Method


Loss from continuing operations

($19

.1)

—

—

($19

.1)

Loss per share

($0

.07)

—

—

($0

.07)

Loss from discontinued operations

($97

.0)

—

—

($97

.0)

Loss per share

($0

.35)

—

—

($0

.35)

Net loss

($116

.1)

—

—

($116

.1)

Loss per share

($0

.42)

—

—

($0

.42)

Weighted average shares outstanding


.4

—

—


.4


Income from continuing operations

$213

.2

—

—

$213

.2

Earnings per share

$0

.78

—

—

$0

.78

Loss from discontinued operations

($259

.8)

—

—

($259

.8)

Loss per share

($0

.95)

—

—

($0

.95)

Net loss

($46

.6)

—

—

($46

.6)

Loss per share

($0

.17)

—

—

($0

.17)

Weighted average shares outstanding


.1

—

—


.1


Income from continuing operations

$265

.0

—

—

$265

.0

Earnings per share

$0

.99

—

—

$0

.99

Income from discontinued operations

$46

.5

—

—

$46

.5

Income per share

$0

.18

—

—

$0

.17

Cumulative effect of accounting change

($514

.9)

—

—

($514

.9)

Loss per share

($1

.93)

—

—

($1

.92)

Net loss

($203

.4)

—

—

($203

.4)

Loss per share

($0

.76)

—

—

($0

.76)

Weighted average shares outstanding


.1

0.9

—


.0

(1)

Dilutive securities include “in the money options” and restricted stock awards.
The weighted average shares outstanding for 2004, 2003 and 2002 exclude the dilutive
effect of approximately 11.5 million, 12.3 million and 4.5 million options,
respectively, because such options had an exercise price in excess of the average
market value of the Company’s common stock during the respective years or the
inclusion would have been anti-dilutive. The weighted average shares outstanding
for 2004 excluded the effect of approximately 0.4 million restricted shares, because
the inclusion would be anti-dilutive.

(2)

The convertible preferred securities are anti-dilutive in 2004, 2003 and 2002
and, therefore, have been excluded from diluted earnings per share. Had the
convertible preferred shares been included in the diluted earnings per share
calculation, net income would be increased by $16.2 million, $16.6 million and $16.6
million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and weighted average shares
outstanding would have increased by 9.7 million shares, 9.9 million shares and 9.9
million shares in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.


FOOTNOTE 15

Stockholders’ Equity

In January 2003, the Company completed the sale of 6.67 million shares of its common stock at a
public offering price of $30.10 per share pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement
that was previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The net proceeds of $200.1
million were used to reduce the Company’s commercial paper borrowings.

Each share of common stock includes a stock purchase right (a “Right”). Each Right will entitle
the holder, until the earlier of October 31, 2008 or the redemption of the Rights, to buy the
number of shares of common stock having a market value of two times the exercise price of $200.00,
subject to adjustment under certain circumstances. The Rights will be exercisable only if a person
or group acquires 15% or more of voting power of the Company or announces a tender offer after
which it would hold 15% or more of the Company’s voting power. The Rights held by the 15%
stockholder would not be exercisable in this situation.

Furthermore, if, following the acquisition by a person or group of 15% or more of the Company’s
voting stock, the Company was acquired in a merger or other business combination or 50% or more of
its assets were sold, each Right (other than Rights held by the 15% stockholder) would become
exercisable for that number of shares of common stock of the Company (or the surviving company in a
business combination) having a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right.

The Company may redeem the Rights at $0.001 per Right prior to the occurrence of an event that
causes the Rights to become exercisable for common stock.

FOOTNOTE 16

Stock Options and Restricted Stock Awards

The Company’s Amended and Restated 1993 Stock Option Plan expired on December 31, 2002. For
options previously granted under that plan, the option exercise price equaled the common stock’s
closing price on the date of grant; options vest over a five-year period and expire ten years from
the date of grant. In 2003, a new plan was approved by the Company stockholders (“2003 Plan”).
The 2003 Plan provides for grants of up to an aggregate of 15.0 million stock options, stock awards
and performance shares (except that no more than 3.0 million of those grants may be stock awards
and performance shares). Under the 2003 Plan, the option exercise price equals the common stock’s
closing price on the date of grant. Options will vest over five years (which may be shortened to
no less than three years) and expire ten years from the date of grant. Also under the 2003 Plan,
none of the restrictions on stock awards will lapse earlier than the third anniversary of the date
of grant.

The following summarizes the changes in the number of shares of common stock under option,
including options to acquire common stock resulting from the conversion of options under pre-merger
Rubbermaid option plans (

in millions, except exercise prices

):

Weighted

Weighted

average

Weighted

Exercisable

Average

fair value of

Average

at end

Exercise

options granted

Shares

Exercise Price

of year

Price

during the year

Outstanding at December 31, 2001

9.9

$29

2.9

$33

Granted

3.9


$9

Exercised

(0.7

)


Canceled / expired

(1.7

)


Outstanding at December 31, 2002

11.4


3.4

$32

Granted

2.8


$8

Exercised

(0.3

)



Weighted

Weighted

average

Weighted

Exercisable

Average

fair value of

Average

at end

Exercise

options granted

Shares

Exercise Price

of year

Price

during the year

Canceled / expired

(1.6

)


Outstanding at December 31, 2003

12.3


4.4

$31

Granted

3.0


$7

Exercised

(0.1

)


Canceled / expired

(3.7

)


Outstanding at December 31, 2004

11.5

$28

5.0

$30

Options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2004 are as follows (

in millions, except
exercise prices

):

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of

Weighted

Weighted Average

Weighted

Weighted Average

Exercise

Number

Average

Remaining

Number

Average

Remaining

Prices

Outstanding

Exercise Price

Contractual Life

Exercisable

Exercise Price

Contractual Life

$19.00 - $24.99

4.8

$23

8.1

1.4

$23

6.7

$25.00 - $34.99

5.2


6.8

2.6


5.9

$35.00 - $45.00

1.5


5.6

1.0


4.7

$19.00 - $45.00

11.5

$28

7.2

5.0

$30

5.9

The Company also grants restricted stock awards to directors and certain employees. Generally,
these awards are subject to three-year cliff vesting and pay dividends quarterly. As of December
31, 2004, the Company had outstanding restricted stock awards of 401,000 shares, none of which are
vested. Total compensation expense of $2.8 million was recorded in 2004 related to the restricted
shares.

FOOTNOTE 17

Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes consists of the following as of December 31, (

in millions

):




Current:

Federal

($15.0

)

$8.3

$47.0

State

5.6

1.6

7.7

Foreign

37.1

37.9

45.1

27.7

47.8

99.8

Deferred

77.7

76.3

33.7

$105.4

$124.1

$133.5

The non-U.S. component of income from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative
effect of accounting change was ($192.9) million in 2004,
$26.0 million in 2003 and $11.7 million
in 2002.

The components of the net deferred tax asset are as follows as of December 31, (

in millions

):



Deferred tax assets:

Accruals not currently deductible for tax purposes

$93.8

$167.1

Postretirement liabilities

73.4

74.2

Inventory reserves

20.2

17.2

Prepaid pension asset

44.9

64.1

Self-insurance liability

14.5

17.4

Foreign net operating losses

255.1

205.6

Other

29.3

21.3

Total gross deferred tax assets

531.2

566.9




Less valuation allowance

(248.3

)

(167.1

)

Net deferred tax asset after valuation allowance

$282.9

$399.8

Deferred tax liabilities:

Accelerated depreciation

($135.1

)

($162.2

)

Amortizable intangibles

(38.4

)

(16.8

)

Other

(6.0

)

—

Total gross deferred liabilities

(179.5

)

(179.0

)

Net deferred tax asset

$103.4

$220.8

Current net deferred income tax asset

$73.8

$152.7

Noncurrent deferred income tax asset

29.6

68.1

$103.4

$220.8

At December 31, 2004, the Company had foreign net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of
approximately $794.4 million, most of which carryforward without expiration. The potential tax
benefits associated with those foreign net operating losses are approximately $255.1 million. The
valuation allowance increased $81.2 million during 2004 to $248.3 million at December 31, 2004.
This increase was primarily due to foreign net operating losses generated during the year which
management is uncertain as to the ability to utilize in the future.

A reconciliation of the U.S. statutory rate to the effective income tax rate is as follows as of
December 31,:




Statutory rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Add (deduct) effect of:

State income taxes, net of federal income tax effect

0.9

0.5

1.8

Foreign tax credit

(7.0

)

(0.3

)

(0.8

)

Foreign rate differential and other

(2.6

)

0.9

(2.5

)

Tax basis differential on goodwill impairment

95.8

0.7

—

Effective rate

122.1

%

36.8

%

33.5

%

No U.S. deferred taxes have been provided on the undistributed non-U.S. subsidiary earnings that
are considered to be permanently invested. At December 31, 2004, the estimated amount of total
unremitted non-U.S. subsidiary earnings is $307.1 million.

Resolution of Tax Contingencies

In 2004, the statute of limitations on certain transactions for which the Company had provided tax
reserves, in whole or in part, expired resulting in the reversal of the provisions and interest
accrued thereon in the amount of $43.6 million. Accordingly, the impact was recorded in income
taxes for the year ended December 31, 2004.

In addition, due to significant restructuring activity and certain changes in the Company’s
business model affecting the utilization of net operating loss carryovers, particularly in certain
European countries, the valuation allowance on certain net operating losses previously
tax-benefited has been increased by $31.0 million. This amount was recorded in income taxes for
the year ended December 31, 2004.

In 2004, the Company also received notification from the Internal Revenue Service that it would
receive a net refund of $2.9 million relating to amounts previously paid. Accordingly, the impact
was recorded in income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2004.

During the first quarter of 2005, the Company reached agreement with the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) relating to the appropriate treatment of a specific transaction reflected on the Company’s
2003 US federal income tax return. The Company requested accelerated review of the transaction
under the IRS’ Pre-Filing Agreement Program that resulted in affirmative resolution in late January
2005. The Company’s December 31, 2004 and 2003 balance sheet reflected a $58 million and $57
million contingency reserve, respectively, for this transaction pending resolution of


the appropriate treatment with the IRS. The benefit of this transaction will be recorded in the
Company’s first quarter 2005 income statement.

FOOTNOTE 18

Impairment Charges

The following table summarizes the noncash pretax impairment charges for the year ended December
31, 2004

(in millions)

:

Other

Other Long-Lived

Indefinite-Lived

Assets (Fixed

Segment

Goodwill

Intangible Assets

Assets / Patents)

Total

Cleaning & Organization

$34.0

$—

$56.2

$90.2

Office Products

138.8

93.8

11.4

244.0

Tools & Hardware

1.5

3.3

2.0

6.8

Home Fashions

8.4

18.9

3.9

31.2

Other

—

—

1.8

1.8

Total

$182.7

$116.0

$75.3

$374.0

Cleaning & Organization

The European Cleaning & Organization home products business was previously classified in the fix
portfolio of the Company’s business, as management believed that the restructuring and other
investments made in the business would produce favorable returns in the future. These expected
returns did not materialize and in 2004, the Company began exploring alternatives for this
business. Accordingly, an impairment charge of $78.9 million was
recorded to write the goodwill and other long-lived
assets down to fair value (disposal value). On January 12, 2005, the Company entered into an
agreement for the intended sale of this business. See Footnote 22 for further details.

The remaining impairment charge relates mainly to the Company’s decision to exit certain product
lines, which resulted in the impairment of fixed assets. The Company determined the fair value of
these fixed assets by estimating the future cash flows attributable to the fixed assets, including
an estimate of the ultimate sale proceeds. Accordingly, the Company recorded a charge to write the
assets to their estimated fair value.

Office Products

The impairment charge recorded in the Office Products segment is primarily a result of three
factors:

•

Prior year restructuring activity related to a product line in the
European business has not resulted in the expected returns, and
management is currently exploring alternatives for this product
line. Accordingly, an impairment charge was recorded to write the
goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets down to fair value (disposal value). The
impairment charge recognized on this product line was $80.8
million, of which $8.5 million related to the write-down of fixed
assets. The write-down of fixed assets is expected to decrease
depreciation expense in 2005 by approximately $1 million.

•

In the European business, the Company has historically promoted
and supported several different brands in the everyday writing
category. In the third quarter, management developed a plan to
consolidate certain brands in Europe in this category. This new
plan results from several factors:

Ø

The Company believes that rationalizing its brands will enable the Company to
more effectively allocate capital and other resources. In this regard, the
Company is focused on promoting its brands globally and reducing the reliance on
local or regional brands.

Ø

The brand that is targeted for rationalization has experienced sales
declines, especially in the current year, and management believes it has more
effective investment opportunities outside of this brand.


As a result of this plan, the Company recognized an impairment charge of $123.1 million related
to this product line.

•

In the third quarter, management decided to rationalize several trademarks and trade names
(brands), primarily in the Latin America businesses. The current plan is to reduce the number
of brands from 76 to 12 over the next three years. As a result of this decision, the Company
determined that certain brands that were previously considered to have indefinite lives were
impaired. Accordingly, the Company wrote these trademarks and trade names down to their fair
value and will begin amortizing these brands over their remaining useful lives (generally
three years). As a result of this reclassification, amortization expense is expected to
increase by approximately $3 million in 2005. The total impairment charge recognized as a
result of the decision to rationalize brands was $37.2 million.

Home Fashions

Management decided to rationalize certain trademarks and trade names (brands), primarily in the
United Kingdom home fashions business, in order to focus on promoting more effective brands. As a
result of this decision the Company determined that these brands became impaired and accordingly,
these trademarks and trade names, as well as certain associated patents, have been written off.
The impairment charge associated with this decision was $17.2 million. Additionally, primarily as
a result of an increase from the prior year in the discount rate (risk adjusted rate) used in
calculating the enterprises’ fair value, an impairment charge of $8.4 million was recorded on
goodwill.

The remaining impairment charge relates to the Company exploring various options, including
rationalization, for certain product lines in the Home Fashions reportable segment. As this
process progressed, the Company determined that certain long-lived assets had a net book value in
excess of their fair value and, accordingly, recorded an impairment charge.

Tools & Hardware / Other

The impairment charge recorded in the Tools & Hardware and Other segments primarily relates to
patents that the Company will allow to expire and fixed assets that are held for sale and,
accordingly, have been written down to fair value.

The Company cannot predict whether certain events might occur that would adversely affect the
reported value of the remaining goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. Such events may
include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive
conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the Company’s customer base, or a material
adverse change in its relationship with significant customers. Additionally, increases in the
risk-adjusted rate could result in additional impairment charges.

2003:

The Company recognized an impairment charge of $34.5 million, primarily related to the decision to
exit certain product lines, most of which were in the Cleaning & Organization segment.

FOOTNOTE 19

Other Nonoperating (Income) Expenses

Total other nonoperating (income) expenses consist of the following as of December 31, (

in
millions

):




Equity earnings

($0.9

)

$—

($0.8

)

Minority interest

2.3

0.4

0.3

Loss on sales of marketable equity securities

—

—

1.2

Currency transaction (gain) loss

(1.1

)

(2.9

)

4.2





ATC transaction costs (1)

—

—

8.7

Costs associated with withdrawn divestiture (2)

—

—

13.6

Gain on disposal of fixed assets

(9.0

)

(3.0

)

(2.0

)

Loss on sale of businesses (3)

—

29.7

—

Gain on debt extinguishment (4)

(4.4

)

—

—

Other

2.1

1.4

3.4

($11.0

)

$25.6

$28.6

(1)

Represents costs associated with the debt extinguishment following the acquisition of
IRWIN. See Footnote 3 for further information.

(2)

Represents transaction costs associated with the Company’s withdrawal in 2002 from the
planned divestiture of its Anchor Hocking glass business.

(3)

The loss on sale of businesses relates primarily to the sale of the Cosmolab business
and the German picture frames business. On March 27, 2003, the Company sold its Cosmolab
business, a division of the Other segment, and recorded a non-cash pretax loss of $21.2
million. On December 31, 2003, the Company also sold its German frames business, a
division of the Home Fashions segment, and recognized a pre-tax loss of $9.2 million.
Neither the Cosmolab business nor the German frames business is included in discontinued
operations for financial statement purposes.

(4)

See Footnote 10 for further information regarding debt extinguishment.

FOOTNOTE 20

Industry Segment Information

The Company’s reporting segments reflect the Company’s focus on building large consumer brands,
promoting organizational integration, achieving operating efficiencies and aligning the businesses
with the Company’s strategic account management strategy. The Company reports its results in five
reportable segments as follows:

Segment

Description of Products

Cleaning & Organization

Indoor/outdoor organization, storage, food storage, cleaning, refuse

Office Products

Ballpoint/roller ball pens, markers, highlighters, pencils, office products, art supplies

Tools & Hardware

Hand tools, power tool accessories, industrial tool accessories,
manual paint

applicators, cabinet and window hardware, propane
torches

Home Fashions

Drapery houseware, window treatments

Other

Operating segments that do not meet aggregation criteria, including
aluminum and

stainless steel cookware, hair care accessory
products, infant and juvenile products,

including toys, high
chairs, car seats, and strollers

The Company’s segment results are as follows as of December 31,

(in millions)

:




Net Sales (1)

Cleaning & Organization

$1,858.1

$2,013.7

$1,901.8

Office Products

1,686.2

1,681.2

1,684.1

Tools & Hardware

1,218.7

1,199.7

783.0

Home Fashions

906.8

901.0

955.7

Other

1,078.6

1,103.4

1,112.3

$6,748.4

$6,899.0

$6,436.9

Operating Income (2)

Cleaning & Organization

$90.8

$92.0

$169.0

Office Products

261.9

309.6

306.1

Tools & Hardware

181.8

179.3

79.2

Home Fashions

33.0

44.4

44.3

Other

92.6

120.7

94.0

Corporate

(39.4

)

(30.3

)

(31.1

)

Impairment Charge

(374.0

)

(34.5

)

—

Restructuring Costs (3)

(52.1

)

(184.0

)

(101.8

)

$194.6

$497.2

$559.7




Identifiable Assets

Cleaning & Organization

$1,074.9

$1,256.5

Office Products

998.1

997.5

Tools & Hardware

836.2

812.1

Home Fashions

599.0

630.2

Other

523.1

577.8

Corporate (4)

2,634.6

2,814.5

Discontinued Operations

—

392.1

$6,665.9

$7,480.7

Geographic Area Information




Net Sales

United States

$4,607.2

$4,788.2

$4,569.5

Canada

349.1

351.5

283.0

North America

4,956.3

5,139.7

4,852.5

Europe

1,436.2

1,403.2

1,269.8

Central and South America

200.7

202.8

206.1

Other

155.2

153.3

108.5

$6,748.4

$6,899.0

$6,436.9

Operating Income (2), (6)

United States

$435.7

$437.4

$479.6

Canada

72.5

67.0

38.9

North America

508.2

504.4

518.5

Europe

(311.8

)

(38.3

)

(1.5

)

Central and South America

(32.9

)

4.4

20.5

Other

31.1

26.7

22.2

$194.6

$497.2

$559.7

Identifiable Assets (5)

United States

$4,836.1

$5,012.1

Canada

114.6

136.2

North America

4,950.7

5,148.3

Europe

1,394.0

1,628.3

Central and South America

185.1

195.4

Other

136.1

116.6

Discontinued Operations

—

392.1

$6,665.9

$7,480.7

(1)

All intercompany
transactions have been eliminated. Sales to Wal*Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries
 amounted
to approximately 14%, 14% and 12% of consolidated net sales for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, substantially across all divisions.
Sales to no other customer exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales for any year.

(2)

Operating income is net sales less cost of products sold and selling, general and
administrative expenses. Certain headquarters expenses of an operational nature are
allocated to business segments and geographic areas primarily on a net sales basis.

(3)

Restructuring costs are recorded as both Restructuring Costs and as part of Cost
of Products Sold in the Consolidated Statements of Operations (refer to Footnote 4 for
additional detail.)

(4)

Corporate assets primarily include trade names and goodwill, equity investments
and deferred tax assets. Accordingly, the write-down of goodwill and other intangible
assets associated with the impairment charge (see Footnote 18 for additional details)
have been reflected as reductions in Corporate assets.

(5)

Transfers of finished goods between geographic areas are not significant.
Corporate assets are primarily reflected in the United States.

(6)

The restructuring and impairment charges have been reflected in
the appropriate geographic regions.


FOOTNOTE 21

Litigation and Contingencies

The Company is involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of its business. These
proceedings include claims for damages arising out of use of the Company’s products, allegations of
infringement of intellectual property, commercial disputes and employment matters as well as the
environmental matters described below. Some of the legal proceedings include claims for punitive
as well as compensatory damages, and a few proceedings purport to be class actions.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company was involved in various matters concerning federal and state
environmental laws and regulations, including matters in which the Company has been identified by
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies as a potentially
responsible party (“PRP”) at contaminated sites under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and equivalent state laws.

In assessing its environmental response costs, the Company has considered several factors,
including: the extent of the Company’s volumetric contribution at each site relative to that of
other PRPs; the kind of waste; the terms of existing cost sharing and other applicable agreements;
the financial ability of other PRPs to share in the payment of requisite costs; the Company’s prior
experience with similar sites; environmental studies and cost estimates available to the Company;
the effects of inflation on cost estimates; and the extent to which the Company’s, and other
parties’, status as PRPs is disputed.

The Company’s estimate of environmental response costs associated with these matters as of December
31, 2004 ranged between $13.6 million and $19.6 million. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had
a reserve equal to $16.0 million for such environmental response costs in the aggregate, which is
included in other accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. No insurance recovery was taken into account in determining the Company’s cost estimates
or reserve, nor do the Company’s cost estimates or reserve reflect any discounting for present
value purposes, except with respect to four long-term (30 year) operations and maintenance CERCLA
matters which are estimated at present value.

Because of the uncertainties associated with environmental investigations and response activities,
the possibility that the Company could be identified as a PRP at sites identified in the future
that require the incurrence of environmental response costs and the possibility of additional sites
as a result of businesses acquired, actual costs to be incurred by the Company may vary from the
Company’s estimates.

Although management of the Company cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these legal proceedings
with certainty, it believes that the ultimate resolution of the Company’s legal proceedings,
including any amounts it may be required to pay in excess of amounts reserved, will not have a
material effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In the normal course of business and as part of its acquisition and divestiture strategy, the
Company may provide certain representations and indemnifications related to legal, environmental,
product liability, tax or other types of issues. Based on the nature of these representations and
indemnifications, it is not possible to predict the maximum potential payments under all of these
agreements due to the conditional nature of the Company’s obligations and the unique facts and
circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the Company
under these agreements did not have a material effect on the Company’s business, financial
condition or results of operation.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company had $100.7 million in standby letters of credit primarily
related to the Company’s self-insurance programs, including workers’ compensation, product
liability, and medical.


FOOTNOTE 22

Subsequent Events

Sale of Curver

The Curver business was previously classified in the fix portfolio of the Company’s business, as
management believed that the restructuring and other investments made in the business would produce
favorable returns in the future. These expected returns did not materialize and in 2004, the
Company began exploring alternatives for this business, including, but not limited to, marketing
the business for potential sale. An impairment charge relating to this business of approximately
$80 million was recognized in the third quarter of 2004, related to this change in strategic
direction.

On January 12, 2005, the Company entered into an agreement for the intended sale of the Company’s
Curver business. The Curver business manufactures and markets plastic products for home storage
and garage organization, food storage, laundry, bath, cleaning, closet organization and refuse
removal in various countries in Europe. The Company’s European commercial products and other
European businesses would not be affected by the sale.

The intended sale is subject to consultation with works councils, trade unions and employees in the
countries concerned. The Company has instituted consultation with respect to the intended sale and
shall give due consideration to the opinions of such councils, unions and employees as required by
law in the context of the contemplated sale. Completion of the intended sale would also be subject
to other customary conditions. The Company currently anticipates that the intended sale would be
completed in the second quarter of 2005.

The contemplated sale price would be $5 million, payable at closing, and a contingent note for $5
million, payable within 12 years. The sales price is subject to reduction for working capital
adjustments. There would also be contingent payments, up to an aggregate maximum of $25 million,
based on the adjusted earnings before interest and taxes of the Curver business for the five years
ended December 31, 2009. In addition to the contemplated sale of the Curver business, the Company
would provide transitional services to the purchaser, and the purchaser would become a supplier to
the Company with regard to the manufacture of certain products that the Company sells in other
European businesses.

The agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and conditions. The
agreement also contains indemnification provisions subject to specified limitations as to time and
amount. The agreement is subject to termination if the transaction is not completed within four
months or, in certain cases, six months.

In connection with this intended transaction, the Company expects to record a total non-cash loss
related to the sale of approximately $75 to $95 million in the first and second quarters of 2005.
The Curver business had 2004 sales of approximately $150 million.

The Company also considered alternative scenarios for the business, but estimated that the value of
the business to the Company after accounting for the net cash to be expended under such alternative
scenarios would be maximized by a sale of the business, primarily due to the significant
restructuring liabilities that would be incurred in such alternative scenarios.

The following table presents summarized balance sheet information of the Curver business as of
December 31, 2004 (

in millions

):

Accounts receivable, net

$29.3

Inventories, net

23.3

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

18.9

Total Current Assets

71.5

Property, plant and equipment, net

46.1

Other assets

0.7

Total Assets

$118.3

Accounts payable

$21.4

Other accrued liabilities

21.0

Total Current Liabilities

42.4

Long-term liabilities

0.2

Total Liabilities

$42.6


Resolution of Tax Contingencies

During the first quarter of 2005, the Company reached agreement with the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) relating to the appropriate treatment of a specific transaction reflected on the Company’s
2003 US federal income tax return. The Company requested accelerated review of the transaction
under the IRS’ Pre-Filing Agreement Program that resulted in affirmative resolution in late January
2005. The Company’s December 31, 2004 and 2003 balance sheet reflected a $58 million and $57
million contingency reserve, respectively, for this transaction pending resolution of the
appropriate treatment with the IRS. The benefit of this transaction will be recorded in the
Company’s first quarter 2005 income statement.

Purchase of Preferred Securities

On February 10, 2005, the Company purchased 550,000 shares of its Preferred Securities from a
holder for $47.375 per share. The Company paid a total of $26.1 million.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

On March 25, 2002, the Company terminated the engagement of Arthur Andersen LLP (“Arthur Andersen”)
as its independent auditor. The decision to terminate the engagement of Arthur Andersen was
recommended by the Company’s Audit Committee and approved by its Board of Directors. Arthur
Andersen’s report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company for each of the years
ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, did not contain any adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion
and was not qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. During
the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the interim period between December 31, 2001 and
March 25, 2002, there were no disagreements between the Company and Arthur Andersen on any matter
of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or
procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to the satisfaction of Arthur Andersen, would have
caused it to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreements in connection with its
report. During the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the interim period between December
31, 2001 and March 25, 2002, there were no reportable events (as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of
Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission). A letter from Arthur
Andersen was included in the Report on Form 8-K/A filed by the Company on April 3, 2002.

The Company engaged Ernst & Young LLP as its new independent auditor effective March 25, 2002. The
engagement of Ernst & Young was recommended by the Company’s Audit Committee and approved by its
Board of Directors. During the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the interim period
between December 31, 2001 and March 25, 2002, the Company did not consult with Ernst & Young
regarding (i) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either completed
or proposed, (ii) the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements or (iii) any matter that was either the subject of a disagreement (as
described above) or a reportable event.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

(a)

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. As of December 31, 2004, an
evaluation was performed by the Company’s management, under the supervision and with the
participation of the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the
effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on that
evaluation, the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

(b)

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. The Company’s
management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting is set forth under
Item 8 of this annual report and is incorporated herein by reference.


(c)

Attestation Report of the Registered Public Accounting Firm. The attestation report of
Ernst & Young LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, on
management’s assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is set
forth under Item 8 of this annual report and is incorporated herein by reference.

(d)

Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. There were no changes in the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended
December 31, 2004 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

On November 2 and 3, 2004, the Company’s Organizational Development & Compensation Committee and
its Board of Directors approved performance goals for 2005 under the Company’s Management Cash
Bonus Plan based on a combination of the following business criteria: for Corporate participants,
earnings per share and cash flow; for Group participants, earnings per share, cash flow and
operating income; and for Divisional participants, earnings per share, cash flow, operating income
and sales growth.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information required under this Item with respect to Directors will be contained in the Company’s
Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 11, 2005 (the “Proxy
Statement”) under the captions “Election of Directors” and “Information Regarding Board of
Directors and Committees” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Information required under this Item with respect to Executive Officers of the Company will be
included as a supplemental item at the end of Part I of this report.

Information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act will be included in the
Proxy Statement under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Compliance Reporting,” which
information is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Information required under this Item with respect to the Company’s Code of Ethics for Senior
Financial Officers will be included in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Information Regarding
Board of Directors and Committees — Code of Ethics” and is incorporated herein by reference.

Information required under this Item with respect to the audit committee and audit committee
financial experts will be included in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Information Regarding
Board of Directors and Committees — Committees — Audit Committee” and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Information required under this Item with respect to communications between security holders and
Directors will be included in the Proxy Statement under the caption “Information Regarding Board of
Directors and Committees — Director Nomination Process/Communications with the Board of Directors”
and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information regarding executive compensation will be included in the Proxy Statement under the
captions “Election of Directors — Compensation of Directors” and “Executive Compensation,” which
information is hereby incorporated by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

Information required
under this Item will be included in the Proxy Statement under the captions
“Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” and is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information required
under this Item will be included in the Proxy Statement under the caption
“Election of Directors” and is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Information required
under this Item will be included in the Proxy Statement under the caption
“Ratification of Appointment of Independent Accountants” and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)(1) The following is a list of the financial statements of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. included in
this report on Form 10-K, which are filed herewith pursuant to Item 8:

(2) The following consolidated financial statement schedule of the Company included in this report
on Form 10-K is filed herewith pursuant to Item 15(d) and appears immediately following the Exhibit
Index:

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(3) The exhibits filed herewith are listed on the Exhibit Index filed as part of this report on
Form 10-K. Each management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement of the Company listed on
the Exhibit Index is separately identified by an asterisk.

(b) EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Number

Description of Exhibit

Item 2.

Plan of
Acquisition,
Reorganization,
Arrangement,
Liquidation or
Succession

2.1

Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 12,
2004, between the Company and Global Home Products LLC and
Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of April 13, 2004
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 and Exhibit 2.2,
respectively, to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
dated April 13, 2004).


Exhibit

Number

Description of Exhibit

Item 3.

Articles of
Incorporation and
By-Laws

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Newell Rubbermaid
Inc., as amended as of April 5, 2001 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2001).

3.2

By-Laws of Newell Rubbermaid Inc., as amended (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2004).

Item 4.

Instruments
Defining the Rights
of Security
Holders, Including
Indentures

4.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Newell Rubbermaid
Inc., as amended as of April 5, 2001, is included in Item 3.1.

4.2

By-Laws of Newell Rubbermaid Inc., as amended, are included in
Item 3.2.

4.3

Rights Agreement, dated as of August 6, 1998, between the
Company and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as Rights
Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 6, 1998, File No.
001-09608), as amended by a First Amendment to Rights
Agreement effective as of September 29, 2003, between the
Company and The Bank of New York, as Rights Agent
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s
Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A, filed October 27, 2003).

4.4

Indenture dated as of April 15, 1992, between the Company and
The Chase Manhattan Bank (now known as JPMorgan Chase Bank),
as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the
Company’s Report on Form 8-K amending the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31,
1992, File No. 001-09608).

4.5

Indenture dated as of November 1, 1995, between the Company
and The Chase Manhattan Bank (now known as JPMorgan Chase
Bank), as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to
the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 3, 1996,
File No. 001-09608).

4.6

Junior Convertible Subordinated Indenture for the 5.25%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures, dated as of December 12,
1997, between the Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank (now
known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Indenture Trustee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s
Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-47261, filed
March 3, 1998 (the “1998 Form S-3”)).

4.7

Specimen Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4.7 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2003).


Exhibit

Number

Description of Exhibit

4.8

Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of June 14, 2002 by and
among Newell Rubbermaid Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
administrative agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as sole
lead arranger and sole bookrunner, Bank of America, N.A. and
Bank One, NA, as co-syndication agents, and Barclays Bank PLC
and BNP Paribas, as co-documentation agents (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Amendment No. 2 to the Company’s
Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-88050, filed
July 10, 2002), as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Five-Year
Credit Agreement dated as of June 13, 2003 between Newell
Rubbermaid Inc., each of the lenders signatory thereto and
JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30,
2003).

Pursuant to item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, the
Company is not filing certain documents. The Company agrees to
furnish a copy of each such document upon the request of the
Commission.

Item 10.

Material Contracts

*10.1.1

Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Management Cash Bonus Plan, effective
January 1, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002).

*10.1.2

Performance Goals under Newell Rubbermaid Inc. Management Cash
Bonus Plan.

*10.2

Newell Co. Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
effective January 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the year ended December 31, 1998, File No. 001-09608).

*10.3

Newell Rubbermaid Inc. 2002 Deferred Compensation Plan, as
amended and restated as of January 1, 2004 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2004).

*10.4

Rubbermaid Incorporated 1993 Deferred Compensation Plan
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit A of the Rubbermaid
Incorporated Proxy Statement for the April 27, 1993 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, File No. 001-04188).

*10.5

Newell Rubbermaid Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
effective January 1, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2004).

*10.6

Newell Rubbermaid Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan, effective
February 9, 1993, as amended May 26, 1999 and August 15, 2001
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company’s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
June 30, 1999, File No. 001-09608, and Exhibit 10 to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended September 30, 2001).


Exhibit

Number

Description of Exhibit

*10.7

Newell Rubbermaid Inc. 2003 Stock Plan, effective May 7, 2003,
as amended May 12, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
B of the Company’s 2003 Proxy Statement, dated March 24, 2003,
and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March
31, 2003 and Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for quarterly period ended March 31, 2004).

*10.8

Forms of Stock Option Agreement and Restricted Stock Award
Agreement under the 2003 Stock Plan.

*10.9

Newell Rubbermaid Medical Plan for Executives, as amended and
restated effective January 1, 2000 (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.13 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2000, File No. 001-09608).

*10.10

Confidentiality, Noncompetition and Nonsolicitation Agreement
between the Company and Joseph Galli, dated as of February 20,
2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended March 31, 2004).

*10.11

Form of Employment Security Agreement with the Company’s
Executive Officers and a limited number of other senior
management employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10
to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 10,
2004).

10.12

Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of December 12,
1997, among the Company, as Depositor, The Chase Manhattan
Bank (now known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Property Trustee,
Chase Manhattan Delaware, as Delaware Trustee, and the
Administrative Trustees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
4.2 to the 1998 Form S-3).

10.13

Junior Convertible Subordinated Indenture for the 5.25%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures, dated as of December 12,
1997, between the Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank (now
known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Indenture Trustee, is
included in Item 4.6.

10.14

Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of June 14, 2002 by and
among Newell Rubbermaid Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
administrative agent, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as sole
lead arranger and sole bookrunner, Bank of America, N.A. and
Bank One, NA, as co-syndication agents, and Barclays Bank PLC
and BNP Paribas, as co-documentation agents, as amended, is
included in Item 4.8.

Item 11.


Statement of Computation of Earnings per Share of Common Stock.

Item 12.


Statement of Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

Item 14.


Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 14 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003).

Item 21.

Subsidiaries of the
Registrant


Significant Subsidiaries of the Company.


Exhibit

Number

Description of Exhibit

Item 23.

Consent of experts
and counsel

23.1

Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.

Item 31.

Rule13a-14(a)/15d-14
(a) Certifications

31.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a), As Adopted Pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) , As Adopted Pursuant to Section
302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Item 32.

Section 1350
Certifications

32.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as Adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Item 99.

Additional Exhibits

99.1

Safe Harbor Statement.

*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement of the Company.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.

NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC.

Registrant

By          /s/ J. Patrick Robinson

Title      Vice President — Chief Financial Officer

Date      February 25, 2005

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below on February 25, 2005 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated.

Signature

Title

/s/ William D. Marohn

William D. Marohn

Chairman of the Board and Director

/s/ Joseph Galli, Jr.

Joseph Galli, Jr.

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

/s/ J. Patrick Robinson

J. Patrick Robinson

Vice President — Chief Financial Officer

/s/ Ronald L. Hardnock

Ronald L. Hardnock

Vice President — Corporate Controller

/s/ Thomas E. Clarke

Thomas E. Clarke

Director

/s/ Scott S. Cowen

Scott S. Cowen

Director

/s/ Michael T. Cowhig

Michael T. Cowhig

Director

Alton F. Doody

Director

/s/ Mark D. Ketchum

Mark D. Ketchum

Director

/s/ William D. Marohn

William D. Marohn

Director

/s/ Elizabeth Cuthbert Millett

Elizabeth Cuthbert Millett

Director

/s/ Cynthia A. Montgomery

Cynthia A. Montgomery

Director

/s/ Allan P. Newell

Allan P. Newell

Director

/s/ Gordon R. Sullivan

Gordon R. Sullivan

Director

/s/ Raymond G. Viault

Raymond G. Viault

Director


Schedule II

Newell Rubbermaid Inc. and subsidiaries

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

Balance at

Charges to

Balance at

Beginning

Other

End of

(In millions)

of Period

Provision

Accounts (1)

Write-offs

Period

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts:

Year ended December 31, 2004

$62.5

$21.5

$—

($26.7

)

$57.3

Year ended December 31, 2003

73.3

7.7

0.9

(19.4

)

62.5

Year ended December 31, 2002

55.1

34.0

1.3

(17.1

)

73.3

(1)

Represents recovery of accounts previously written off and net reserves of acquired or
divested businesses.

Balance at

Balance at

Beginning

End of

(In millions)

of Period

Provision

Write-offs

Other (2)

Period

Inventory Reserves:

Year ended December 31, 2004

$96.9

$81.4

($88.0

)

$—

$90.3

Year ended December 31, 2003

117.7

48.8

(71.4

)

1.8

96.9

Year ended December 31, 2002

103.1

57.4

(56.0

)

13.2

117.7

(2)

Represents net reserves of acquired and divested businesses, including provisions for
product line rationalization.

74