
10-K
tp10k.txt

                               UNITED STATES
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C. 20549
                --------------------------------------------

                                 FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
|X|        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
                FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
                                     OR
|_|                TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION
                       13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
                        EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE
                    REQUIRED] FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD
                          FROM _______ TO _______
                       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-22493
                --------------------------------------------

                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

               DELAWARE                               13-3668641
   (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)

                  IM LANGACHER
                P.O. BOX MT-100
        CH 8606 GREIFENSEE, SWITZERLAND                  ----------
    (Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

                             011-41-1-944-2211
            (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
               --------------------------------------------

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                              Name of each exchange
         Title of each class                   on which registered
         -------------------                   --------------------
     Common Stock, $.01 par value            New York Stock Exchange

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

               --------------------------------------------

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period
that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X     No
                                                             ---       ---

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K (ss. 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

     As of February 22, 2002 there were 44,161,792 shares of the
Registrant's Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding. The
aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock held by non-affiliates
of the Registrant (based on the closing price for the Common Stock on the
New York Stock Exchange on that day) was approximately $2.019 billion. For
purposes of this computation, shares held by affiliates and by directors of
the Registrant have been excluded. Such exclusion of shares held by
directors is not intended, nor shall it be deemed, to be an admission that
such persons are affiliates of the Registrant.

                    DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

                 DOCUMENT                          PART OF FORM 10-K
                 --------                       INTO WHICH INCORPORATED
         PROXY STATEMENT FOR 2002               -----------------------
      ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS                   PART III





                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.

                         ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001

                                                                          PAGE
PART I

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS.....................................................1

ITEM 2.        PROPERTIES...................................................23

ITEM 3.        LEGAL PROCEEDINGS............................................24

ITEM 4.        SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS..........24

SUPPLEMENTAL   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.........................24

PART II

ITEM 5.        MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
               RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS..................................25

ITEM 6.        SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA......................................26

ITEM 7.        MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
               CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS..........................28

ITEM 7A.       QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
               MARKET RISK..................................................40

ITEM 8.        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA..................40

ITEM 9.        CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
               ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE..........................40

PART III

ITEM 10.       DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT...........41

ITEM 11.       EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.......................................43

ITEM 12.       SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
               AND MANAGEMENT...............................................44

ITEM 13.       CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS...............44

PART IV

ITEM 14.       EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
               ON FORM 8-K..................................................44

SIGNATURES     .............................................................45






     Unless otherwise stated or where the context otherwise requires,
references herein to we, our, the "Company" or "Mettler-Toledo" refer to
Mettler-Toledo International Inc. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements
based on our current expectations and projections about future events.
These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties which could cause our actual results to differ materially
from historical results or those anticipated and certain of which are
beyond our control. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate" and similar
expressions identify forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation
to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise. New risk factors
emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such
risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our
business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may
cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors
should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a
prediction of actual results. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Exhibit 99.1 to this
Report.

     We use the following registered and unregistered trademarks, which are
found in this Report: AIRWEIGH, APPLIED SYSTEMS, ASI, AVS, AX, BERGER,
BERGER INSTRUMENTS, BOHDAN, CARGOSCAN, DELTARANGE, DIGITOL, FORMWEIGH,
FREEWEIGH, FTIR, JAGUAR, JAGXTREME, LABMAX, LUTRANA, MENTOR SC, METTLER,
METTLER-TOLEDO, MT-SHOP, MULTIMAX, MULTIRANGE, MYRIAD, OHAUS, OPRA, RAININ,
RONDO, SAFELINE, SERVICEXXL, SPIDER, TESTUT, TESTUT-LUTRANA, THORNTON,
TRIMWEIGH , TRUCKMATE, UNICORN, VIKING, VIPER, WINBRIDGE AND X-MATEPRO.

     Unless otherwise indicated, industry data contained herein is derived
from publicly available industry trade journals, government reports and
other publicly available sources. We have not independently verified this
data but we believe the data is reliable. Where such sources are not
available, industry data is derived from our internal estimates, which we
believe to be reasonable, but which cannot be independently verified. As
used in this Annual Report, "$" refers to U.S. dollars, "CHF" or "SFr"
refers to Swiss francs, "(pound)" refers to British pounds sterling and
"CDN $" refers to Canadian dollars.


                                   PART I

Item 1.  BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

     Mettler-Toledo is a leading global supplier of precision instruments.
We are the world's largest manufacturer of weighing instruments for use in
laboratory, industrial and food retailing applications. We also hold
top-three market positions in several related analytical instruments, and
are a leading provider of automated chemistry systems used in drug and
chemical compound discovery and development. In addition, we are the
world's largest manufacturer and marketer of metal detection and other
end-of-line inspection systems used in production and packaging. We also
derive a competitive advantage from our application-oriented software,
which processes the data captured by our instruments and integrates it into
customers' information technology systems.

     We focus on the high value-added segments of our markets by providing
innovative instruments that are often integrated into application-specific
solutions for customers. We design our instruments not only to capture
valuable data but also to facilitate the processing and transfer of this
data into customers' management information systems.

COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS

     We believe our franchise has a number of competitive strengths, which
allow us to compete successfully in high value-added segments:

o    Worldwide Market Leadership Positions. We believe that we have a
     leading position in each of our markets, and at least 80% of our
     product sales are from products that are the global leaders in their
     segment. In the weighing instruments market, we are the only company
     to offer products for laboratory, industrial and food retailing
     applications globally and we believe that we hold a market share more
     than twice that of our nearest competitor. We believe that in 2001 we
     had approximately 50% of the global market for laboratory balances,
     including the largest market share in each of Europe, the United
     States and Asia (excluding Japan), and the number two position in
     Japan. In the industrial and food retailing markets, we believe we
     have the largest market share in Europe and the United States. In
     Asia, we have a substantial industrial and food retailing business
     which has gained market share in recent years. This business is
     supported by our established manufacturing presence in China. In
     addition to our weighing franchise, most of our other sales come from
     product lines where we hold a top-three global position.

o    Global Brand and Reputation. The Mettler-Toledo brand name is
     identified worldwide with accuracy, reliability and innovation.
     Customers value these characteristics because most of our instruments
     significantly impact customers' product quality, productivity, costs
     and regulatory compliance. Furthermore, precision instruments
     generally constitute a small percentage of customers' aggregate
     expenditures. As a result, we believe customers focus on accuracy,
     product reliability, technical innovation, service quality, reputation
     and past experience when choosing precision instruments, rather than
     cost alone. We have one of the strongest brand names in the
     laboratory. In fact laboratory balances are often generically referred
     to as "Mettlers". The strength of this brand name has allowed us to
     successfully extend our laboratory balance line to include other
     analytical instruments.

o    Technological Innovation. We have a long and successful track record
     of innovation and remain at the forefront of technological development
     by focusing on the high value-added segments of our markets. We
     believe that we are the global leader in our industry in providing
     innovative measurement solutions to enhance our customers' processes.
     Our technological innovation efforts benefit from our knowledge of
     customer processes and related requirements, our manufacturing
     expertise in sensor technology, precision machining and electronics,
     as well as our strength in software development.

o    Comprehensive, High Quality Solution Offering. We offer a more
     comprehensive range of instruments and solutions than any of our key
     competitors. Our broad product line addresses a wide range of
     applications across and within many industries and regions. We
     manufacture our products in modern facilities, most of which are ISO
     9001 certified. Our broad range of high quality products and the
     ability to provide integrated solutions allows us to leverage our
     sales and service organization, product development activities and
     manufacturing and distribution capabilities.

o    Global Sales and Service. We have the only global sales and service
     organization among weighing instruments manufacturers, and one of the
     largest of any precision instrument company. We believe that this
     capability is a major competitive advantage. At December 31, 2001,
     this organization consisted of more than 4,200 employees organized
     into locally based, customer-focused groups that provide prompt
     service and support to our customers and distributors in virtually all
     major markets around the world. The local focus of our sales and
     service organization enables us to provide timely, responsive support
     to our customers worldwide and provides feedback for manufacturing and
     product development. When we survey our current and potential
     customers on their needs, they often name service as the most
     important criteria for choosing their instrument suppliers. In
     addition, we believe there is a trend in many of our customer segments
     to outsource service activities, which provides us a growth
     opportunity for the future.

o    Largest Installed Base. We believe that we have the largest installed
     base of weighing instruments in the world. From this installed base,
     we obtain service contracts that provide a strong, stable source of
     recurring service revenue. Service revenue represented approximately
     21% of net sales in 2001, of which almost half was derived solely from
     service contracts and repairs with the remainder derived from the sale
     of spare parts and software support. We believe that our installed
     base of instruments represents a competitive advantage with respect to
     repeat purchases and purchases of other instruments we offer, because
     customers tend to remain with their existing suppliers. In addition,
     switching to a new instrument supplier entails additional costs to the
     customer for training, spare parts, service and systems integration
     requirements. Close relationships and frequent contact with our broad
     customer base also provide us with sales leads and new product and
     application ideas.

o    Geographical, Product and Customer Diversification. Our revenue base
     is diversified by geographic region, product range and customer. Many
     different industries, including pharmaceuticals, food processing, food
     retailing and chemicals, cosmetics and logistics utilize our broad
     product range. We supply customers all over the world, and our largest
     single customer accounted for no more than 3% of net sales in 2001.
     Our diverse revenue base reduces our exposure to regional or
     industry-specific economic conditions, and our presence in many
     different geographic markets, product markets and industries enhances
     our attractiveness as a supplier to multinational customers. In 2001,
     our sales were $1.148 billion. Of this total 44% came from Europe, 43%
     from North and South America and 13% from Asia and other countries.
     For additional information regarding our segment disclosure, see Note
     15 to our audited consolidated financial statements.






GROWTH STRATEGIES

     We believe that our growth opportunities arise from our solutions
approach to the principal challenges facing our customer base. These
include the need for increased efficiency (for example, in accelerating
time to market, achieving better yields, improving work processes and
outsourcing non-core activities), the desire to integrate information
captured by instruments into management information systems, the drive for
ever higher quality products and services, including the need to adhere to
stringent regulatory and industry standards, and the move towards
globalization in all major customer groups.

     We continue to execute the business strategies that we outlined at the
time of our buy-out in 1996, which are described below. The successful
implementation of these strategies has allowed us to achieve a compound
annual sales growth rate in local currencies of 10% since 1996, and to
improve our Adjusted Operating Income (gross profit less research and
development and selling, general and administrative expenses before
amortization and non-recurring costs) from $57.8 million (6.8% of net
sales) for 1996 to $165.1 million (14.4% of net sales) for 2001. Earnings
per share increased from $0.14 in 1996 (pro forma for our buy-out) to $2.02
in 2001 before non-recurring items. Non-recurring items in 2001 comprised a
$14.6 million charge net of tax associated primarily with headcount
reductions and manufacturing transfers. In addition, our ratio of net debt
to EBITDA decreased from 4.6 in 1996 to 1.8 in 2001 and our interest
coverage increased from 2.3 to 11.4 during the same period. EBITDA
represents Adjusted Operating Income plus depreciation. We believe that
Adjusted Operating Income, earnings per share before non-recurring charges
and EBITDA provide important financial information in measuring and
comparing our operating performance. Adjusted Operating Income, earnings
per share before non-recurring charges and EBITDA are not intended to
represent operating income under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as
alternatives to GAAP earnings (loss) as a measure of financial performance
or to GAAP cash flow as a measure of liquidity.

     Our key growth strategies are as follows:

     Expanding Our Technology Leadership. We attribute a significant
portion of our recent margin improvement to our research and development
efforts. We intend to continue to invest in product innovation in order to
provide technologically advanced products to our customers for existing and
new applications. Over the last three years, we have invested approximately
$178 million in research and development, and R&D spending in local
currency has grown an average of 14% over this period. While we expect R&D
spending to generally grow faster than sales, we do not expect it to
continue to grow at this rate of growth. Our research and development
efforts fall into two categories:

     o  technology advancements, which increase the value of our products.
        These may be in the form of enhanced functionality, new
        applications for our technologies, more accurate or reliable
        measurement, additional software capability or automation through
        robotics or other means; and

     o  cost reductions, which reduce the manufacturing cost of our
        products through better overall design.

     Our research and development efforts have contributed to a pipeline of
innovative and new products, significant reductions in product costs and
reduced time to market for our new products. Examples of recent product
introductions include:

     o  the MultiMaxIR, performs real-time in-situ FTIR reaction monitoring
        and analysis directly in multiple vessels in a parallel synthesis
        system, which enhances automated process R&D by allowing chemists
        to analyze a wide range of organic chemistry;

     o  Optimizer (being launched in 2002), a modular process development
        software platform, which uses an array at lab reactor vessels for
        performing multiple chemical reactions simultaneously;

     o  X-matePro, a portable measuring instrument in our process analytics
        business, which has interchangeable sensor modules that make it
        capable of measuring up to ten different parameters at programmable
        time intervals;

     o  the Unicorn family of products, our second-generation PC-based
        network retail solution, including weighing and labeling solutions
        for prepacking applications, networked counter scales and
        perishable goods data management software; these solutions are
        easily integrated into local networks and are designed for maximum
        flexibility, and can be customized for country-specific promotions,
        unique user habits, and differing preferences in data requirements;

     o  the Viper line of compact bench scales using MonoBloc technology,
        which offer high resolution and accuracy for rugged industrial
        environments;

     o  Rondo 60, a configurable titrator that enables titration of up to
        60 samples without any user interaction, featuring a built in
        keypad, removable sample racks, an automated rinsing system and an
        optical beaker-recognition system, and its smaller sibling, the
        Rondolino, for up to 9 samples;

     o  The AX64004 comparator, the first commercially available mass
        comparator with a continuous weighing range of up to 64 kg and a
        resolution of 0.1 mg.; and

     o  Airweigh, a high-performance checkweigher that weighs as many as
        900 packages per minute, has an easy-to-use graphical user
        interface, and stores individual product setups for fast and easy
        product changeover.

     Increasing our Market Share and Capitalizing on Opportunities in
Developed Markets. We recognize that to be a successful company, we must
not only develop excellent solutions, but we must market and distribute
them effectively - more effectively than our competitors. We view the key
elements of our sales and service strategy as follows:

     o  We utilize what we believe are the most sophisticated marketing and
        sales techniques in our industry. These techniques include the
        development and utilization of marketing databases. We develop
        these databases to better understand the full potential of our
        market by customer, location, industry, instrument and related
        application. We then utilize this data to more efficiently direct
        our field resources and complement our direct and distributor sales
        forces with targeted mailing and telemarketing campaigns to more
        fully exploit our market's potential. The transparency of the
        marketplace created through these databases allows us to more
        effectively identify penetration opportunities among customers and
        non-customers. We have seen this strategy take hold as evidenced by
        significant market share gains in certain targeted segments such as
        pharmaceutical and biotech.

     o  With our developing E-commerce project, we plan to create a
        configurable Internet portal which will allow customers, channel
        partners and suppliers to customize the information presented to
        them and to interact with us in the way they choose. Over time, we
        will develop a knowledge base which will allow us to gain deeper
        insight into our customers' patterns of behavior and give us better
        market transparency. From this, we will be able to refine our
        marketing efforts, gain quicker market penetration with new
        products and services, and ultimately reduce our marketing costs.

     o  Our service capabilities stretch across the globe and include
        around-the-clock availability of well-trained technicians, which is
        highly valued by our customers. We believe that no other competitor
        has our capabilities and that our service capabilities are a
        critical success factor for us. Our value-added services encompass
        maintenance, calibration, traceability of weights, certification,
        asset management, software upgrades, data integration and training.
        Service XXL, which we recently expanded worldwide, is a
        comprehensive suite of services covering regulatory compliance for
        design, manufacture, installation, operation and maintenance of our
        customers' instruments.

     o  We also utilize a dual brand strategy for certain market segments
        to improve our overall market penetration. For example, we sell
        balances under the Ohaus brand name as an alternative to the
        Mettler-Toledo brand name in certain distribution channels, such as
        the education market.

     Capitalizing on Opportunities in Emerging Markets. We believe that
emerging markets will continue to provide growth opportunities for us.
These growth opportunities are being driven primarily by economic
development and multinationals' use of additional and more sophisticated
precision instruments as they shift production to emerging markets. In
addition, we believe that over the long term, the trend toward
international quality standards, the need to upgrade mechanical scales to
electronic versions and the establishment of local production facilities by
our multinational client base will add to the opportunities in emerging
markets.

     To date our emerging market expansion has primarily focused on Asia,
and we grew by approximately 18 percent in that part of the world in 2001.
In Asia (excluding Japan), we are the market leader in laboratory weighing
instruments and have a substantial industrial and food retailing business
that has gained market share in recent years. For instance, we have two
profitable operations in China: a facility that manufactures and sells
industrial and food retailing products and a facility that manufactures and
distributes laboratory products. We also have direct marketing
organizations in Taiwan, Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Thailand,
Malaysia and Eastern Europe. Beyond Asia, we are also expanding our sales
and service presence in Latin America and other emerging markets.

     China represents a significant opportunity for us. Product
introductions and local market strength enabled our Chinese businesses to
post another year of double-digit sales growth in 2001. Over the past two
years, we have more than doubled the percentage of products we manufacture
in China. We want to continue leveraging our Chinese manufacturing and R&D
as a platform for low-end products, which are necessary to increase our
penetration of emerging markets. At the same time, we supply these products
to complementary channels in North America and Europe. For example, in the
near future we plan to launch Viking, a global balance targeted for the
entry-level user - one who is cost-conscious but who demands high quality.
Using the platform designed for this technology, over the next 12 months,
we will introduce a series of entry-level balances with wide-ranging
resolutions to fully cover this market segment.

     Pursuing Selected Acquisition Opportunities. Acquisitions are an
integral part of our growth strategy. We believe that we have a powerful
acquisition platform in the instrument industry. Our acquisitions leverage
our global sales and service network, respected brand, extensive
distribution channels and technological leadership. We are interested in
pursuing acquisitions which have strong strategic fit - for example,
companies with complementary products that will benefit from our brand name
and global distribution channels, and companies with solutions we can
combine with our own technologies to create overall better solutions for
our customers. In addition, our acquisitions should anchor more of our
business in faster-growing markets. We are particularly attracted to the
following end markets:

     o  Life Sciences. The impact of scientific developments, including the
        human genome project, is fundamentally changing the pharmaceutical
        industry and its need for automation. In recent years, we have
        acquired a variety of companies in the field of life sciences
        including Bohdan, ASI, Berger, and Rainin. We offer these companies
        the infrastructure to expand globally and take advantage of the
        Mettler-Toledo brand name. Rainin Instrument is the leading
        manufacturer of pipetting solutions used in pharmaceutical, biotech
        and medical research applications. A premier company with a strong
        growth rate and excellent operating margins, Rainin broadens our
        market-leading offering of instruments and solutions to the life
        sciences market.

     o  Process Analytics. Our pharmaceutical and biotech customers need to
        comply with increasing quality standards. At the same time, they
        are seeking in-line control instruments to improve their yields. In
        December 2000 we acquired Thornton, a leader in pure and ultra-pure
        industrial water monitoring instrumentation used in semi-conductor,
        micro-electronics, pharmaceutical and biotech applications. Their
        conductivity technology and know-how are complementary to our
        strength in pH and oxygen measurements. With a broader technology
        offering, we are better able to serve our expanded customer base.

     o  Packaging Control Systems. Increasing safety and consumer
        protection requirements are driving the need for more and more
        sophisticated end-of-line inspection systems. We are the world's
        leading provider of metal detectors and checkweighers, which, when
        combined with our application-specific software packages, provide
        food and drug packaging lines an integrated solution to check the
        quality and quantity of their packages. In 2000, we acquired AVS,
        which allowed us to add x-ray-based vision technology to our
        offering.

     o  Transportation and Logistics. The effects of globalization, the
        move to just-in-time processes, and e-commerce are all causing our
        customers to invest in our weighing and dimensioning solutions. Our
        customers are the major express carriers, freight forwarders,
        third-party logistic entities and warehousing and distribution
        companies. We are currently the leading supplier of automatic
        identification and data capture solutions which incorporate
        weighing and dimensioning technology to optimize the shipment and
        tracking of packages worldwide. In 2000, we announced that we would
        acquire full ownership of our Cargoscan subsidiary, the premier
        provider of dimensioning technology.

     These are not the only opportunities and end markets we are focusing
on. We are also alert for opportunities to expand our solution scope,
particularly by adding more application-specific software, and to
consolidate fragmented markets or expand geographically. Finally, once we
have made these acquisitions, we will continue to invest in them in order
to realize and expand the value they offer.

     Re-engineering and Cost Savings. We have improved our profitability in
recent years partly through a series of initiatives aimed at reducing our
cost structure. We plan to undertake similar initiatives in the future with
the goal of further improving our operating margins. These initiatives
include:

     o  Continuing to leverage our Chinese manufacturing and R&D as a
        platform for low-end products, which are necessary to increase our
        penetration of emerging markets. We are also transferring
        production of many of our low-end products from Europe and North
        America to China - the most recent example being our Ohaus
        electronic laboratory balances and our shipping scales. We now have
        almost 700 employees in China, including approximately 110 R&D
        professionals.

     o  The first wave of our procurement initiative, launched in 1999, has
        brought us substantial cost savings. Our global procurement
        initiative aims to reduce our supplier base to a select group of
        high-quality suppliers from all parts of the world. By doing so, we
        believe we can ensure maximum cost effectiveness and improve the
        quality of our product and processes. We are well into the second
        phase of this initiative and expect to continue to improve
        operating margins through a more effective procurement effort over
        the coming years.

     o  Opportunities in our service business. We have approximately 2,000
        employees worldwide engaged in service. We have instituted a
        four-phase services cost-productivity plan, which we expect to
        enhance operating margin profit over its three-year implementation,
        by exploiting available technology and best practices.

     o  We are taking advantage of the globalization of our customer base
        and the harmonization of regulatory standards worldwide to
        standardize our product lines on a global basis and streamline our
        organizational structure. As much as possible, we will harmonize
        our product lines worldwide. With global standardized offerings,
        our sales and service professionals will require less frequent
        training and reduced parts inventory. R&D resources will be
        re-deployed for new value-added products, allowing us to gain
        incremental growth. In addition, consolidated operations will
        produce significant savings and more efficient use of invested
        capital.

     We believe that these initiatives and others will place us in a
position to build on our recent improvement in profitability. Furthermore,
we believe that we can leverage our existing infrastructure, particularly
our recent investments in Asia, to obtain continued sales growth without
significant additions to our overall cost base.

INSTRUMENTS AND SOLUTIONS

LABORATORY INSTRUMENTS

     Laboratory Balances. The balance is the most common piece of equipment
in the laboratory. We believe that we sell the highest performance
laboratory balances available on the market, with weighing ranges from one
ten-millionth of a gram up to 32 kilograms. Our brand name is so well
recognized that laboratory balances are often generically referred to as
"Mettlers." The Mettler-Toledo name is identified worldwide with accuracy,
reliability and innovation. In our judgment, this reputation constitutes
one of our principal competitive strengths.

     To meet our customer needs, we seek to connect and integrate our
instruments to customers' information management systems. Many of our
instruments operate on standard PC platforms and operating systems.

     To cover a wide range of customer needs and price points, we market
laboratory balances in three principal product tiers offering different
levels of functionality. In certain markets, we now also offer a fourth
level of basic balances. High-end balances provide maximum automation of
calibration, application support and additional functions. Mid-level
balances provide a more limited but still extensive set of automated
features and software applications. Basic level balances provide simple
operations and a limited feature set. We also manufacture mass comparators,
which are used by weights and measures regulators as well as laboratories
to ensure the accuracy of reference weights. Due to the wide range of
functions and features offered by our products, prices vary significantly.
A typical mid-range precision balance is priced at approximately $2,500 and
a typical microbalance is priced at approximately $14,000.

     In addition to Mettler-Toledo branded products, we also manufacture
and sell balances under the brand name "Ohaus." Ohaus branded products
include mechanical balances and electronic balances for the educational
market and other markets in which customers are interested in lower cost, a
more limited set of features and less comprehensive support and service.

     Pipettes. Pipettes are used for measuring and dispensing small volumes
of liquids in laboratories. They are among the most widely used instruments
in the rapidly growing life science market. In late 2001, we acquired
Rainin Instrument, a premier provider of pipetting solutions. Rainin
invented electronic pipettes in 1984 and holds more than 20 patents on
ergonomically advanced electronic and manual pipettes. Based in Emeryville,
California, Rainin develops, manufactures and distributes advanced
pipettes, tips and accessories, including single- and multi-channel manual
and electronic pipettes. Rainin's principal end markets are pharmaceutical,
biotech and medical research. A typical manual single-channel pipette is
priced at approximately $245, and manual multichannel pipettes are priced
from $495 to $695 depending on the number of channels and volume range. A
typical electronic single-channel pipette is priced at approximately $395,
and electronic multichannel pipettes are priced from $795 to $995 depending
on the number of channels and volume range.

     Titrators. Titrators measure the chemical composition of samples. Our
high-end titrators are multi-tasking models, which can perform two
determinations simultaneously on multiple vessels. Titrators are often used
in integrated systems. They permit high sample throughputs and have
extensive expansion capability and flexibility in calculations, functions
and parameters. Most models, including those in the lower-range, permit
common determinations to be stored in a database for frequent use.
Titrators are used heavily in the food and beverage industry. Titrators are
priced between $5,000 and $15,000, with a typical titrator being priced at
approximately $12,000. Multi-module systems range up to $30,000.

     To enhance efficiency, we recently introduced a revolutionary series
of titration automators that eliminate the manual aspects of preparing
samples, cleaning electrodes, removing titrated solutions, recording data
and much more. Their capabilities range from automating small-batch
titrations up to the first plug and play automation of Karl Fischer
titration, which determines the water content of substances.

     LabX, our recently launched PC-based enterprise software suite,
manages and analyzes the data titrators generate. Based on the Windows 2000
global standard, LabX provides full network capability; has efficient,
intuitive protocols; and enables customers to comply with the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration's traceability requirements for electronically stored
data. Soon, LabX will also be available for other instruments including our
balances and pH meters.

     Thermal Analysis Systems. Thermal analysis systems measure materials
properties as a function of temperature, such as weight, dimension, energy
flow and viscoelastic properties. Our thermal analysis products include
full computer integration and a significant amount of proprietary software.
Thermal analysis systems are used in nearly every industry, but primarily
in the plastics and polymer industries and increasingly in the
pharmaceutical industry. A typical thermal analysis system with one
measuring module is priced at approximately $50,000. Prices for
multi-module systems range up to $200,000.

     Other Analytical Instruments. The pH meters we offer measure acidity
in laboratory samples, and are the second most widely used measurement
instruments in the laboratory, after the balance. Data collected from our
pH meters can be downloaded to a computer or printer using an interface kit
and custom software. We sell density and refractometry instruments, which
measure chemical concentrations in solutions. These instruments are sourced
through a marketing arrangement with a third-party manufacturer, but are
sold under the Mettler-Toledo brand name. In addition, we manufacture and
sell moisture analyzers, which precisely determine the moisture content of
a sample by utilizing an infrared dryer to evaporate moisture.

DRUG DISCOVERY SOLUTIONS (AUTOCHEM)

     Our pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers are all too aware of
the time and costs involved in drug research and development. The mission
of our drug discovery group is to provide our customers with integrated
solutions that enable chemists to increase their productivity and
accelerate the drug discovery process.

     The number of drug targets and potential lead compounds has increased
significantly as a result of combinatorial chemistry techniques,
high-throughput screening methods and the initial findings of the human
genome project. The increasing number of targets and compounds has created
severe bottlenecks in the drug discovery process. We believe that our
portfolio of integrated technologies can bring significant efficiencies to
the drug discovery process, enabling our customers to create larger numbers
of higher quality candidate compounds and bring them to market faster.

     Our current drug discovery solution offering is focused on key aspects
of the lead identification, lead optimization, and process development
phases of the drug R&D process. Our overall value proposition is to speed
up these phases by offering systems which perform the many tasks which a
chemist has to perform, in parallel and fully automated. Within our drug
discovery group, the Discovery team focuses on lead identification and
optimization, and the Reaction Engineering team focuses on process research
and development.

     Discovery. The Discovery business offers the following solutions to
combinatorial and medicinal chemists working on lead identification and
optimization:

     o  the Mini-Block manual parallel synthesizer, which has become a
        standard tool among medicinal chemists for chemistry development
        and lead optimization

     o  the Discoverer automated synthesizer, capable of extremely
        sophisticated chemistry

     o  the Myriad Core System, the top-of the range automated parallel
        synthesizer, capable of producing hundreds of thousands of new drug
        candidates per year

     o  automated workstations for reagent preparation, weighing, labeling
        and dispensing to support the synthesis process

     o  the ALLEX automated liquid/liquid extraction system for cleaning up
        synthesis products

     o  Berger's supercritical fluid chromatographs, which are capable of
        analyzing and purifying synthesis products in a fraction of the
        time of conventional HPLC instruments, and

     o  the FlexiWeigh automated solids dispensing system, which eliminates
        the bottleneck from manually handling powder-like substances.

     Reaction Engineering. Our Reaction Engineering business offers
products to help speed up process research and development as well as
product development and scale-up. Automatic lab reactors and reaction
calorimeters simulate chemical manufacturing processes in the laboratory.
Customers use the simulation tests before proceeding to production, in
order to test the safety and feasibility of new processes. Our products are
fully computer-integrated, with comprehensive data analysis software.

     o  Optimizer (a new product being launched in 2002) is a modular
        process development software platform, which includes an array of
        lab reactor vessels for performing multiple chemical reactions
        simultaneously. These can be integrated with real-time analytical
        techniques to allow customers to run multiple investigations
        simultaneously

     o  the Multimax and Labmax automated laboratory reactors, with four
        and one separately-controlled reactors respectively, which are used
        in process optimization to find the precise reaction parameters to
        make larger quantities of the drug candidate

     o  the RC-1, which combines a laboratory reactor with calorimetry and
        is used to ensure the process is economical as well as safe as the
        manufactured quantities are scaled up

     o  the React-IR 4000 in-situ infrared analyzer, which can be used with
        the laboratory reactors to monitor the chemistry in real-time

     o  React-IR MP and Process-IR, which are hardened infrared analyzers
        used in scale-up applications and production, and

     o  Lasentec computer-controlled laser probes for real-time
        crystallization monitoring, which helps pharmaceutical scientists
        to monitor and optimize the formation of solid drug products during
        the production process.

     We continue to pursue opportunities that will enable us to extend our
drug discovery and development solutions by internal research and
development and by acquiring businesses that have technologies and
capabilities complementary to ours. In particular, we recognize the
importance of software as an integral part of any solution offering.
Effective integration of automation instruments with data recording and
analysis software represents an attractive solution to our customers. We
believe that our drug discovery group is well positioned to support and
grow with the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in their exciting
challenge to discover and develop new drugs.

PROCESS ANALYTICS

     Our process analytics business provides instruments for the in-line
measurement of liquid parameters in the production process of
pharmaceutical and biotech companies. In the ongoing quest to improve
product quality and production efficiency, manufacturers are adopting
sensor technologies for in-line process control. Our process analytics
business is the leading supplier of pH and oxygen measurement instruments
used in bio-pharmaceutical manufacturing, and is well positioned to
accelerate its growth in this market. In late 2000 we expanded our
technology offering in process analytics to include Thornton's conductivity
technology and know-how in determining water purity.

     More than half of our process analytics sales are to the
pharmaceutical and biotech markets. Our customers need fast and secure
scale-up and production that meets the validation processes required for
GMP (Good Manufacturing Processes) and other regulatory standards. Our
in-line process analytics solutions help these customers ensure
reproducible and consistent product quality, while ensuring compliance
within relevant regulatory standards.


INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS

     Industrial Scales and Balances. We offer a complete line of industrial
scales and balances, such as bench scales and floor scales, for weighing
loads from a few grams to several thousand kilograms in applications
ranging from measuring materials in chemical production to weighing mail
and packages. Our product lines include the Viper and Spider range of
scales, often used in receiving and shipping departments in counting
applications; TrimWeigh scales, which determine whether an item falls
within a specified weight range, and are used primarily in the food
industry; Mentor SC scales, for counting parts; and precision scales for
formulating and mixing ingredients. Prices vary significantly with the size
and functions of the scale, generally ranging from $1,000 to $20,000.

     We have supplemented our broad product offering through products
jointly specified and developed by our Chinese and American operations. The
high quality, timely delivery, and full range of capabilities we get from
our Chinese operations allow us to match our manufacturing resources to the
needs of the various brands and channels we manage in a wide range of
geographies.

     Our development efforts continue to be focused on understanding
"customer drivers" - those strategic issues that cause a customer to make a
buying decision. By aligning our solutions to those drivers, we can meet
our customers' expectations and continue to grow within this key business
segment.

     Industrial Terminals. Our latest industrial scale terminal is the
JagXtreme, which is our fastest, most powerful scale terminal ever. It
harnesses the power and flexibility of the internet to help integrate and
control information, equipment management, and automation in manufacturing
processes. The JagXtreme terminal is two and a half times faster than our
industry-leading Jaguar terminal - but it works like a Jaguar terminal so
there is little training time required. It allows users to download
programs or access setup data from across the plant - or across the globe.
The JagXtreme terminal can also maximize up time by dispatching emails when
the unit needs service - and minimize down time through predictive rather
than reactive maintenance. The JagXtreme terminal can serve up data across
the web through an internet browser. It also provides users with the tools
to design their own user interface. We continued JagXtreme's global
introduction throughout 2001. For the fifth year in a row, the readers of
"Control" magazine recognized our Jaguar and JagXtreme as their choice for
best in the Weighing System/Load Cell category by a margin of two to one
over the next supplier. JagXtreme's preventative and predictive maintenance
capabilities continue to set the standard for remote diagnostics within a
weighing terminal. Prices for industrial weighing terminals vary
significantly based on functionality of the application, generally ranging
from $500 to $10,000.

     Transportation / Shipping and Logistics. Companies are increasingly
conducting business across geographic boundaries, and
transportation/logistics suppliers are instrumental in supporting those
efforts. Speed is also critical, as evidenced by the growth in e-commerce
and just-in-time methods. Customers are seeking solutions to speed
throughput, lower costs, increase revenue and ensure first-rate service to
their own customers. We are addressing those needs as the leading global
supplier of automatic identification and data capture solutions, which
integrate in-motion weighing, dimensioning and identification technologies.
With these solutions, companies such as FedEx can measure the weight and
cubic volume of packages for appropriate billing, logistics and quality
control. Our solutions also integrate into information systems that allow
customers to track the progress of packages via the Internet. Prices for
integrated dimensioning/weighing systems range from $5,000 to $20,000.

     We believe our solutions provide our customers with greater accuracy
and higher throughput than competitors' products. Based on a thorough
understanding of customer processes, we can match our solutions precisely
to customer needs. Our global presence gives us the ability to provide
world-class service in most major locations around the world. What's more,
our technical knowledge of local weights and measures regulations and our
application know-how result in effective installations and provides ongoing
support for customers.

     Our partnership with DHL Worldwide Express illustrates the advantages
we bring. Covering much of DHL's extensive network in 220 countries and
territories around the world, we deliver beginning-to-end services - making
DHL's assets as efficient as they can be within each location. That
includes product consultation, installation, local governmental
certification, preventative maintenance and responsive emergency service.
We learn each location's processes thoroughly, then design a solution that
meets DHL's globally defined quality standards yet is flexible for local
requirements.

     Vehicle Scale Systems. Our primary heavy industrial products are
scales for weighing trucks or railcars (i.e., weighing bulk goods as they
enter or leave a factory or at a toll station). Our vehicle scales, such as
the DigiTol TRUCKMATE, generally have digital load cells, which offer
significant advantages in serviceability over analog load cells. Heavy
industrial scales are capable of measuring weights up to 500 tons either
statically or, in some cases, in-motion, and permit accurate weighing under
extreme environmental conditions. We also offer advanced computer software,
such as WinBridge and our newest offering, OverDrive, that can be used with
our heavy industrial scales to facilitate a broad range of customer
solutions. Our WinBridge and OverDrive software provides a complete system
for managing vehicle transaction processing. Vehicle scale prices generally
range from $20,000 to $50,000.

PACKAGING CONTROL SYSTEMS

     Dynamic Checkweighers. We are the world's leading provider of metal
detectors, checkweighers and x-ray visioning, which, when combined with our
application-specific software packages, provide food and drug packaging
lines an integrated solution to check the quality and quantity of their
packages. We offer solutions to checkweighing requirements in the food
processing, pharmaceutical, chemicals and cosmetic industries, where
customers are required to accurately measure portions for packaging. We
also offer checkweighing solutions to the transportation and package
delivery industries, where tariffs are levied based on weight. Recently, we
added automated combination weighing to our offering, which allows
customers to fill or sort discrete food items accurately and quickly,
thereby enhancing yield and productivity.

     Customizable software applications utilize the information generated
by checkweighing hardware to find production flaws, packaging and labeling
errors and nonuniform products, as well as to sort rejects and record the
results. We recently unveiled a new generation of Freeweigh.net, our
widely-used statistical and quality control software that optimizes package
filling, monitors weight-related data and integrates it in real time into
customers' enterprise resource planning and/or process control systems. Our
checkweighing equipment and software can accurately determine weight in
dynamic applications at speeds of up to several hundred units per minute.
Checkweighers generally range in price from $8,000 to $40,000.

     End-of-line Inspection Solutions. Increasing safety and consumer
protection requirements are driving the need for more and more
sophisticated end-of-line inspection systems. As the leading global
provider in end-of-line metal detection, we help ensure the quality of
package contents; and our X-ray technology checks for non-metallic
contamination. These high throughput solutions incorporate sensor
technologies and software to assist customers in fulfilling validation
requirements and in improving their quality and yield. Metal detectors
provide manufacturers with vital protection against metal contamination
arising from their own production processes or from using contaminated raw
materials. Metal detectors are most commonly used with X-ray-based vision
inspection and checkweighers as components of integrated packaging lines in
the food processing, pharmaceutical and other industries. Prices for metal
detection systems generally range from $5,000 to $20,000.

RETAIL WEIGHING SOLUTIONS

     Retail Scale Systems and Prepackaging Systems. Supermarkets,
hypermarkets and other food retail establishments make use of multiple
weighing applications for the full handling of perishable goods. For
example, perishable goods are weighed on arrival to determine payment to
suppliers and some of these goods are repackaged, priced and labeled for
sale to customers. Other goods are kept loose and selected by customers and
either weighed at the produce or delicatessen counter or at the checkout
counter. We offer stand-alone scales for basic counter weighing and
pricing, price finding, and printing. In addition, we offer network scales
and software, which can integrate backroom, counter, self-service and
checkout functions, and can incorporate weighing data into a supermarket's
overall perishable goods management system.

     Our OPRA retail scale, a key element of our perishable goods
management solution, is the first Internet-enabled weighing instrument in
the industry. OPRA enables customers to remotely manage pricing, run
promotions, support frequent-shopper programs, download software, manage
inventory and more. Our equipment can also accommodate required
dual-currency displays and, through its Internet capabilities, can
automatically adjust for conversion to the euro. Backroom products include
dynamic weighing products, labeling and wrapping machines, perishable goods
management and data processing systems. In some countries in Europe, we
also sell slicing and mincing equipment. Prices for food retailing scales
generally range from $500 to $5,000, but are often sold as part of
comprehensive weighing solutions.

     Our innovative Unicorn products are a single-platform, PC-based
solution for the management of perishable goods that can be configured for
global needs, yet still adapted to local differences. The Unicorn family of
products includes weighing and labeling solutions for prepacking
applications, networked counter scales and perishable goods data management
software. It is a genuinely global product, providing flexibility,
modularity and identical hardware and software platforms everywhere.

     Unicorn's principal benefit is its connectivity. Through intranets and
the Internet, our customers can, on a global basis, seamlessly communicate
with central back-offices - maximizing inventory-management efficiency,
updating pricing and adding or eliminating products and remotely manage
online servicing.

     Unicorn is designed for optimum flexibility in adapting to local
differences. Easily integrated into local networks, its platform can be
customized for country-specific promotions, unique user habits, differing
preferences in data requirements and more. With Unicorn, we leverage our
global investments in R&D, manufacturing, and sales and service training.
It is the solutions platform on which we will continue to profitably grow
our leading global position in retail.


CUSTOMERS AND DISTRIBUTION

     Our business is geographically diversified, with sales in 2001 derived
44% from Europe, 43% from North and South America and 13% from Asia and
other countries. Our customer base is also diversified by industry and by
individual customer. Our largest single customer accounted for no more than
3% of 2001 net sales.

     Principal customers for our solutions include companies in the
following key end markets: the life science industry (pharmaceutical and
biotech companies, as well as independent research organizations), food
processors, packagers and retailers, specialty chemicals and cosmetics
companies, the transportation and logistics industry, the metals industry,
the electronics industry and the academic market.

     Our laboratory products are sold through a worldwide distribution
network. Our extensive direct distribution network and our dealer support
activities enable us to maintain a significant degree of control over the
distribution of our products. Mid to high-end products in the United States
are handled by our own sales force. We sell laboratory products in Asia
through our own sales force and distributors, and in Europe primarily
through direct sales. European and Asian distributors are generally
fragmented on a country-by-country basis.

     Ohaus branded laboratory balances are generally positioned in
alternative distribution channels to those of Mettler-Toledo branded
products. This means that we can fill a greater number of distribution
channels and increase penetration of our existing markets. Since acquiring
Ohaus in 1990, we have expanded this brand beyond its historical U.S.
focus. Ohaus branded products are sold exclusively through distributors.

     In the industrial and food retailing market, we sell both directly to
customers (including OEMs) and through distributors. In the United States,
direct sales exceed distribution sales and in Europe, direct sales
predominate, with distributors used in certain cases. We sell products in
Asia primarily through distributors, except in China where we sell products
through our own sales force and distributors. Where we use distributors, we
seek to provide them with significant support.

     We also offer customers the ability to shop online for basic
instruments with global appeal, such as balances, pipettes, pH meters,
electrodes, titrators and density meters. Launched in mid-1999,
www.MT-Shop.com presents customers with unique options, including the
ability to customize a product down to a specific color or design motif.
Users also can access the site in multiple languages. Our virtual shop is
aimed principally at small start-up companies and individual scientists -
segments of the market that previously were difficult to reach
cost-effectively. The site is expected to increase brand awareness and
market penetration with these new target groups.

SALES AND SERVICE

MARKET ORGANIZATIONS

     We have a host of geographically focused market organizations ("MOs")
around the world that are responsible for all aspects of our sales and
service. The MOs are local marketing and service organizations designed to
maintain close relationships with our customer base. Each MO has the
flexibility to adapt its marketing and service efforts to account for
different cultural and economic conditions. MOs also work closely with our
producing organizations (described below) by providing feedback on
manufacturing and product development initiatives and relaying innovative
product and application ideas.

     We have the only global sales and service organization among weighing
instruments manufacturers. At December 31, 2001, our sales and services
group consisted of more than 4,200 employees in sales, marketing and
customer service (including related administration) and after-sales
technical service. This field organization has the capability to provide
service and support to our customers and distributors in virtually all
major markets across the globe.

     Sales managers and representatives interact across product lines and
markets in order to serve customers that have a wide range of instrument
needs, such as pharmaceutical companies that purchase both laboratory and
industrial products. We classify customers according to their potential for
sales and the appropriate distribution channel is selected to service the
customer as efficiently as possible. Larger accounts tend to have dedicated
sales representatives. Other representatives specialize by product line.
Sales representatives call directly on end-users either alone or, in
regions where sales are made through distributors, jointly with
distributors.

     We utilize a variety of advertising media, including trade journals,
catalogs, exhibitions and trade shows. In addition, we also sponsor
seminars, product demonstrations and customer training programs. We utilize
sophisticated marketing techniques in our sales efforts. These techniques
include the development and utilization of marketing databases. We develop
these databases to better understand the full potential of our market by
customer, location, industry, instruments and related application. We then
utilize this data to more efficiently direct our field resources and
complement our direct and distributor sales forces with targeted mailing
and telemarketing campaigns to more fully exploit our market's potential.

     We also utilize a dual brand strategy for certain market segments to
improve our overall market penetration. For example, we sell laboratory
balances under the Ohaus brand name as an alternative to the Mettler-Toledo
brand name in certain distribution channels.

     We use the Mettler-Toledo Web site, www.mt.com, to provide current and
prospective customers and other audiences with the information they need in
a convenient manner. With several thousand pages of information, our Web
site has become a principal source of answers for customers' questions on
many laboratory, industrial and food retailing processes.

     In addition, we use the information gained through visits to our sites
to make our marketing messages even more relevant to customers. This
includes employing one-to-one marketing techniques.






SERVICE

     We believe service capabilities are a critical success factor in our
business. Through our own dedicated service technicians, we provide
contract and repair services in all countries in which our products are
sold. This global service network also is an important factor in our
ability to expand in emerging markets. We estimate that we have the largest
installed base of weighing instruments in the world, and our contract and
repair services generate significant revenues. In 2001, service
(representing service contracts, repairs, software support and
replacement parts) accounted for approximately 21% of our total net sales.

     Beyond revenue opportunities, service is a key part of our product
offering and helps significantly in generating repeat sales. The close
relationships and frequent contact with our large customer base provides us
with sales opportunities and innovative product and application ideas. Our
sales organization works closely with customers to define the optimal
services bundle. Our service team recently expanded worldwide ServiceXXL,
our comprehensive suite of services covering regulatory compliance for
design, manufacture, installation, operation and maintenance of customers'
instruments.

     Our service contracts provide for these value-added services, as well
as for repair services, within various guaranteed response times, depending
on the level of service selected. Contracts are generally one year in
length, but may be longer. If the service contract also includes products
of other manufacturers, we will generally perform calibration, testing and
basic repairs directly, and contract out more significant repair work. As
application software becomes more complex, our service efforts increasingly
include installation and customer training programs as well as product
service.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT; MANUFACTURING

PRODUCING ORGANIZATIONS

     Our product development, research and manufacturing efforts are
organized into a number of producing organizations ("POs"). POs are product
development teams comprised of personnel from our marketing, development,
research, manufacturing, engineering and purchasing departments. POs often
seek customer input to ensure that the products developed are tailored to
market needs. We have organized our POs to reduce product development time,
improve customer focus, reduce costs and maintain technological leadership.
The POs work together to share ideas and best practices, and some employees
are in both MOs and POs.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     We attribute a significant portion of our recent margin improvement to
our research and development efforts. We intend to continue to invest in
product innovation in order to provide technologically advanced products to
our customers for existing and new applications. Over the last three years,
we have invested more than $178 million in research and development. In
2001, we spent approximately 5.6% of net sales on research and development.
Our research and development efforts fall into two categories:

     o  technology advancements, which increase the value of our products.
        These may be in the form of enhanced functionality, new
        applications for our technologies, more accurate or reliable
        measurement, additional software capability or automation through
        robotics or other means, and

     o  cost reductions, which reduce the manufacturing cost of our
        products through better overall design.

     We have devoted an increasing proportion of our research and
development budget to software development. This includes
application-specific software, as well as software utilized in sensor
mechanisms, displays and other common components, which can be leveraged
across our broad product lines.

     We closely integrate research and development with marketing,
manufacturing and product engineering. We have over 750 professionals in
research and development and product engineering. As part of our research
and development activities, we have frequent contact with university
experts, industry professionals and the governmental agencies responsible
for weights and measures, analytical instruments and metal detectors. In
addition, our in-house development is complemented by technology and
product development alliances with customers and original equipment
manufacturers.

MANUFACTURING

     We manufacture some of our own components, usually components that
contain proprietary technology. However, when outside manufacturing is more
efficient, we contract with others for certain components and in turn use
these components in our own manufacturing processes. We use a wide range of
suppliers and we believe our supply arrangements to be adequate. From time
to time we rely on a single supplier for all of our requirements of a
particular component. Even then, adequate alternative sources are generally
available if necessary. Supply arrangements for electronics are generally
made globally. For mechanical components, we generally use local sources to
optimize materials flow.

     We strive to emphasize product quality in our manufacturing
operations, and most of our products require very strict tolerances and
exact specifications. We use an extensive quality control system that is
integrated into each step of the manufacturing process. This integration
permits field service technicians to trace important information about the
manufacture of a particular unit, which facilitates repair efforts and
permits fine-tuning of the manufacturing process. Many of our measuring
instruments are subjected to an extensive calibration process that allows
the software in the unit to automatically adjust for the impact of
temperature and humidity.

     We are a worldwide manufacturer, with manufacturing plants in the
United States, Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom, France and China.
Laboratory products are produced mainly in Switzerland and to a lesser
extent in the United States and China, while industrial and food retailing
products are produced worldwide. Most of our manufacturing facilities have
achieved ISO 9001 certification. We believe that our manufacturing capacity
is sufficient to meet our present and currently anticipated needs.

BACKLOG

     Manufacturing turnaround time is generally sufficiently short so as to
permit us to manufacture to fill orders for most of our products, which
helps to limit inventory costs. Backlog is therefore generally a function
of requested customer delivery dates and is typically no longer than one to
two months.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 2001, we had approximately 8,500 employees
throughout the world, including approximately 4,400 in Europe, 2,900 in
North and South America, and 1,200 in Asia and other countries. We believe
our employee relations are good, and we have not suffered any material
employee work stoppage or strike during the last five years. Labor unions
do not represent a meaningful number of our employees.

     In certain of our facilities, we have a flexible workforce
environment, in which hours vary depending on the workload. This flexible
working environment enhances employees' involvement, thus increasing
productivity. It also improves efficient payroll management by permitting
us to adjust staffing to match workload to a greater degree without
changing the size of the overall workforce.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     We hold approximately 1,500 patents and trademarks, primarily in the
United States, Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Japan and
China. Our products generally incorporate a wide variety of technological
innovations, some of which are protected by patents and some of which are
not. Products are generally not protected as a whole by individual patents,
and as a result, no one patent or group of related patents is material to
our business. We have numerous trademarks, including the Mettler-Toledo
name and logo, which are material to our business. We regularly protect
against infringement of our intellectual property.

REGULATION

     Our products are subject to various regulatory standards and approvals
by weights and measures regulatory authorities. Although there are a large
number of regulatory agencies across our markets, there is an increasing
trend toward harmonization of standards, and weights and measures
regulation is harmonized across the European Union. Our food processing and
food retailing products are subject to regulation and approvals by relevant
governmental agencies, such as the United States Food and Drug
Administration. Products used in hazardous environments may also be subject
to special requirements. All of our electrical components are subject to
electrical safety standards. We believe that we are in compliance in all
material respects with applicable regulations.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     We are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in
the jurisdictions in which we operate, including provisions relating to air
emissions, wastewater discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and
hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the
use and disposal of hazardous substances. We wholly or partly own, lease or
hold a direct or indirect equity interest in a number of properties and
manufacturing facilities around the world, including North and South
America, Europe, Australia and China. Like many of our competitors, we have
incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures
and other costs in complying with such laws and regulations in both the
United States and abroad.

     We are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect
to, the remediation of past contamination in certain of our facilities in
both the United States and abroad. In addition, certain of our present and
former facilities have or had been in operation for many decades and, over
such time, some of these facilities may have used substances or generated
and disposed of wastes which are or may be considered hazardous. It is
possible that such sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties
to which we have sent wastes, may in the future be identified and become
the subject of remediation. Accordingly, although we believe that we are in
substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements and to
date we have not incurred material expenditures in connection with
environmental matters, it is possible that we could become subject to
additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a
material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of
operations.

     We, or in some cases the former owner of Toledo Scale, have been named
a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or analogous state statutes at
the following third-party owned sites with respect to the alleged disposal
at the sites by Toledo Scale during the period before we owned it:
Granville Solvents Site, Granville, Ohio; Aqua-Tech Environmental, Inc.
Site, Greer, South Carolina; and Seaboard Chemical Company Site, Jamestown,
North Carolina. Pursuant to the terms of the stock purchase agreement
between us and the former owner of Toledo Scale, the former owner is
obligated to indemnify us for various environmental liabilities. To date,
with respect to each of the foregoing sites, the former owner has
undertaken the defense and indemnification of Toledo Scale. In addition,
our subsidiary, Hi-Speed Checkweigher, is subject to an Administrative
Consent Order ("ACO") from the New Jersey Department of Environmental
Protection that provides for the remediation of the former GEI site in
Landing, New Jersey. However, under the terms of the stock purchase
agreement between GEI and Hi-Speed, GEI assumed all responsibility for the
ACO. To date, GEI has performed and paid for the action required by the
ACO. Based on currently available information and given our contractual
rights of indemnification, we believe that the costs associated with the
investigation and remediation of these sites will not have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

COMPETITION

     Our markets are highly competitive. Furthermore, weighing instruments
markets are fragmented both geographically and by application, particularly
the industrial and food retailing weighing instruments market. As a result,
we face numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are
well established in their markets. In addition, some of our competitors are
divisions of larger companies with potentially greater financial and other
resources than our own. Taken together, the competitive forces present in
our markets can impair our operating margins in certain product lines and
geographic markets.

     We expect our competitors to continue to improve the design and
performance of their products and to introduce new products with
competitive prices. Although we believe that we have certain technological
and other advantages over our competitors, we may not be able to realize
and maintain these advantages. In any event, to remain competitive, we must
continue to invest in research and development, sales and marketing and
customer service and support. We cannot be sure that we will have
sufficient resources to continue to make these investments or that we will
be successful in identifying, developing and maintaining any competitive
advantages.

     We believe that the principal competitive factors in our U.S. markets
for purchasing decisions are accuracy and durability, while in Europe
accuracy and service are the most important factors. In emerging markets,
where there is greater demand for less sophisticated products, price is a
more important factor than in developed markets. Competition in the United
States laboratory market is also influenced by the presence of large
distributors that sell not only our products but those of our competitors
as well.

HISTORY

     Mettler-Toledo International Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware
Corporation in December 1991 and was recapitalized in connection with the
October 15, 1996 acquisition of the Mettler-Toledo group of companies from
Ciba-Geigy. In the acquisition, we paid cash consideration of approximately
SFr 505.0 million (approximately $402.0 million at October 15, 1996),
including dividends of approximately SFr 109.4 million (approximately $87.1
million at October 15, 1996), paid approximately $185.0 million to settle
amounts due to Ciba-Geigy and its affiliates and incurred expenses in
connection with the acquisition and related financing of approximately
$29.0 million. We financed the acquisition primarily with (i) borrowings
under a credit agreement in the amount of $307.0 million, (ii) the issuance
of $135.0 million of senior subordinated notes and (iii) an equity
contribution of $190.0 million primarily from AEA Investors Inc., its
shareholder-investors and our executive officers and other employees.
Following the completion of our initial public offering in November 1997,
management, employees and Company-sponsored benefit funds held
approximately 18% of the Company's shares on a fully diluted basis.

     In May 1997, we acquired Safeline Limited for (pound)63.7 million
(approximately $104.4 million at May 30, 1997). Safeline is the world's
largest manufacturer and marketer of metal detection systems for companies
that produce and package goods in the food processing, pharmaceutical,
cosmetics, chemicals and other industries.

     In November 1997, we completed our initial public offering of
7,666,667 shares of common stock at a per share price of $14.00. The
offering raised net proceeds of approximately $97.3 million. Concurrently
with the offering, we refinanced our prior credit facility and used
proceeds from the refinancing and the offering to repay the senior
subordinated notes of our wholly owned subsidiary, Mettler-Toledo, Inc.

     In November 2001, we acquired Rainin Instrument, the leading
manufacturer of pipetting solutions used in pharmaceutical, biotech and
medical research applications for $294.2 million, of which approximately
one-half was paid in cash and one-half in shares of common stock.


Item 2.  PROPERTIES

     The following table lists our principal manufacturing facilities,
indicating the location and whether the facility is owned or leased. Our
Greifensee, Switzerland facility also serves as our worldwide headquarters
and our Columbus, Ohio, facility serves as our North American headquarters.
We believe our facilities are adequate for our current and reasonably
anticipated future needs.

LOCATION                                                   OWNED/LEASED
- --------                                                   ------------
Europe:
   Greifensee/Nanikon, Switzerland........                   Owned
   Uznach, Switzerland....................                   Owned
   Urdorf, Switzerland....................                   Owned
   Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.............                  Leased
   Albstadt, Germany......................                   Owned
   Giesen, Germany........................                   Owned
   Bethune, France........................                  Leased
   Manchester, England....................                  Leased
   Royston, England.......................                  Leased

Americas:
   Columbus, Ohio.........................                  Leased
   Worthington, Ohio......................                   Owned
   Oakland, California ...................                  Leased
   Spartanburg, South Carolina............                   Owned
   Ithaca, New York.......................                   Owned
   Woburn, Massachusetts..................                  Leased
   Millersville, Maryland.................                  Leased
   Tampa, Florida.........................                  Leased
   Vernon Hills, Illinois.................                  Leased

Other:
   Shanghai, China............................          Building Owned;
                                                          Land Leased
   Changzhou, China...........................          Building Owned;
                                                          Land Leased
   Mumbai, India..............................              Leased



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Routine litigation is incidental to our business. Nevertheless, we are
not currently involved in any legal proceeding which we believe could have
a material adverse effect upon our financial condition or results of
operations. See "Environmental Matters" under Part I, Item 1 for
information concerning legal proceedings relating to certain environmental
claims.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     None.

SUPPLEMENTAL    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     See Part III, Item 10 of this annual report on Form 10-K for
information about Executive Officers of the Registrant.





                                  PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

MARKET INFORMATION FOR COMMON STOCK

     Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol "MTD". The following table sets forth on a per share basis the high
and low sales prices for consolidated trading in our common stock as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for the quarters
indicated.

                                          COMMON STOCK
                                           PRICE RANGE
                                          ------------
                                 HIGH                     LOW
                                 ----                     ---
    Fourth Quarter            $51.98                    $39.98
    Third Quarter             $49.20                    $37.00
    Second Quarter            $52.20                    $37.95
    First Quarter             $53.92                    $36.50

    Fourth Quarter            $56.00                    $39.50
    Third Quarter             $48.81                    $37.75
    Second Quarter            $45.75                    $30.00
    First Quarter             $44.50                    $31.81



HOLDERS

     At February 22, 2002 there were 246 holders of record of common stock
and 44,161,792 shares of common stock outstanding. The number of holders of
record excludes beneficial owners of common stock held in street name.



DIVIDEND POLICY

     We have never paid any dividends on our common stock and we do not
anticipate paying any cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable
future. The current policy of our Board of Directors is to retain earnings
to finance the operations and expansion of our business. Moreover, our
credit agreement restricts our ability to pay dividends. Any future
determination to pay dividends will depend on our results of operations,
financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions and
other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors.






ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The selected historical financial information set forth below at
December 31 and for the years then ended is derived from our consolidated
financial statements. The financial information presented below, in
thousands except per share data, was prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("U.S.
GAAP").






(Footnotes from previous page)
- --------------------------

(a)  In connection with acquisitions in 1999, including the acquisition of
     the Testut-Lutrana group, we allocated $998 of the purchase price to
     revalue certain inventories (principally work-in-progress and finished
     goods) to fair value (net realizable value). Substantially all such
     inventories were sold during the second quarter of 1999.
(b)  In connection with the Bohdan acquisition, we allocated $9,976 of the
     purchase price to purchased research and development in process. This
     amount was recorded as an expense immediately following the Bohdan
     acquisition.
(c)  In connection with the Safeline acquisition, we allocated $2,054 of
     the purchase price to revalue certain inventories (principally
     work-in-progress and finished goods) to fair value (net realizable
     value). Substantially all such inventories were sold during the second
     quarter of 1997.
(d)  In connection with the Safeline acquisition, we allocated $29,959 of
     the purchase price to purchased research and development in process.
     This amount was recorded as an expense immediately following the
     Safeline acquisition.
(e)  Represents charges for the write-off of capitalized debt issuance fees
     and related expenses associated with our previous credit facilities.
     The amount also includes the prepayment premium on the senior
     subordinated notes which were repurchased and the write-off of the
     related capitalized debt issuance fees.
(f)  Other charges, net generally includes interest income, foreign
     currency transactions, (gains) losses from sales of assets and other
     items. The 2001 amount also includes a charge of $15,196 primarily
     related to headcount reductions and manufacturing transfers. The 2000
     amount includes a charge of $1,425 related to the close-down and
     consolidation of operations. The 1999 amount includes a gain on an
     asset sale of approximately $3,100, a charge of $8,007 to transfer
     production lines from the Americas to China and Europe and the closure
     of facilities and losses of approximately $4,100 in connection with
     the exit from our glass batching business based in Belgium. For the
     years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, the amount shown also includes
     $825 and $650, respectively, of expenses incurred on behalf of certain
     selling shareholders in connection with secondary offerings. For the
     year ended December 31, 1997, the amount shown includes a
     restructuring charge of $6,300 to consolidate three facilities in
     North America.
(g)  Consists primarily of obligations under various pension plans and
     plans that provide postretirement medical benefits. See Note 11 to the
     audited consolidated financial statements included herein.





ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited
consolidated financial statements.

OVERVIEW

     We operate a global business, with net sales that are diversified by
geographic region, product range and customer. We hold leading positions
worldwide in many of our markets and attribute this leadership to several
factors, including the strength of our brand name and reputation, our
comprehensive solution offering, the quality of our global sales and
service network, our continued investment in product development, our
pursuit of technology leadership and our focus on capitalizing on
opportunities in developed and emerging markets. While all of our
businesses have significant strategic links in terms of technology or
customer base, we have a geographically diverse business that serves
customers in relatively healthy and stable end markets, including the
pharmaceutical, biotech and food industries.

     Our financial information is presented in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("U.S.
GAAP").

     Net sales in local currency increased 7% in 2001, 9% in 2000, and 16%
in 1999. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus our major trading
currencies reduced U.S. dollar-reported sales growth in each year. Net
sales in U.S. dollars increased 5% in 2001, 3% in 2000, and 14% in 1999. In
2001, we had local currency sales growth of 10% in Europe, 1% in the
Americas and 18% in Asia and other markets.

     We believe our sales growth over the next several years will come
primarily from our solutions approach to the principal challenges facing
our customer base. These include the need for increased efficiency (for
example, in accelerating time to market for new products, achieving better
yields, improving work processes and outsourcing non-core activities), the
desire to integrate information captured by instruments into management
information systems, the drive for ever higher quality of our customers'
products and services, including the need to adhere to stringent regulatory
and industry standards, and the move towards globalization in all major
customer groups.

     Acquisitions are also an integral part of our growth strategy. Our
acquisitions leverage our global sales and service network, respected
brand, extensive distribution channels and technological leadership. We are
particularly attracted to acquisitions that leverage these attributes or
increase our solutions capability (for example, software acquisitions). In
addition, we continue to focus on the following end markets: drug
discovery, process analytics, food and drug packaging and transportation
and logistics.

     We increased our Adjusted Operating Income (gross profit less research
and development and selling, general and administrative expenses before
amortization and non-recurring costs) as a percentage of net sales from
11.6% in 1999 to 14.4% in 2001. This improved performance was achieved
while we continued to invest in product development and in our distribution
and manufacturing infrastructure. We believe that a significant portion of
the increase in our Adjusted Operating Income resulted from our strategy to
reduce costs, re-engineer our operations and focus on the highest
value-added segments of the markets in which we compete. We believe that
Adjusted Operating Income provides important financial information in
measuring and comparing our operating performance. Adjusted Operating
Income is not intended to represent operating income under U.S. GAAP and
should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings as an indicator
of our performance.

RECENT ACQUISITIONS

     We have completed several acquisitions in the last few years,
including the following:

     In November 2001, we acquired Rainin Instrument, LLC, based in
California, USA. Rainin is the leading manufacturer of pipetting solutions
used in pharmaceutical, biotech and medical research applications. Rainin
has a market leadership position in North America, a truly differentiating
technology and a broad patent portfolio in areas like electronic pipetting,
ergonomic designs for pipettes and tip designs. This acquisition further
broadens our offering of instruments and solutions to the life sciences
market and positions us to bring greater value to our customers. Assuming
we acquired Rainin as of the beginning of 2001, the acquisition would have
added additional sales of approximately $65 million, Adjusted Operating
Income of approximately $20 million, and diluted earnings per share of
negative $0.01 per share on a pro forma basis.

     In 2000, we acquired Thornton Inc. based in Massachusetts, USA.
Thornton is the leader in pure and ultra-pure industrial water monitoring
instrumentation used in semi-conductor, micro-electronics, pharmaceutical,
and biotech applications. We believe the acquisition of Thornton is an
excellent strategic move to expand our process analytics business and gain
access to new markets. Its conductivity technology and know-how are
complementary to our strength in pH and oxygen measurements. With a broader
technology offering, we are better able to serve our expanded customer
base.

     In 1999, we acquired the Testut-Lutrana group, a leading manufacturer
and marketer of industrial and retail weighing instruments in France with
annual sales of approximately $50 million. We believe this acquisition is
an excellent strategic fit given Testut-Lutrana's extensive sales and
service network in France and excellent brand recognition. By virtue of
this acquisition, we assumed the leading position in food retail weighing
in Europe and are well positioned to meet the rapidly changing demands of
our European customer base.

     In 1999, we also signed an agreement to convert our 60% subsidiary in
Changzhou, China, into a legal structure that provides us with full
control. Through this change in ownership, we are able to fully leverage
this low-cost manufacturing base for international markets. This move
underscores our strategic commitment to Asia and our belief in the
fundamental growth factors for the region.

     Since the time of its buy-out in 1996, the Company has recorded
charges in 1996, 1997 and 1998 for purchased research and development for
products that were being developed that had not established technological
feasibility as of the date of the acquisition and, if unsuccessful, had no
alternative future use in research and development activities or otherwise.
These research and development projects related to several projects at the
Company at the time of its buy-out, Safeline metal detection projects and
Bohdan Automation. These purchased research and development projects have
been completed, and there have been no material differences between actual
and projected results. Assumptions taken at the time of these acquisitions
continue to appear reasonable based upon actual results, and in no cases
have there been significant shortfalls to the Company's original
projections.

COST REDUCTION PROGRAMS

     As further described in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial
Statements, as part of our efforts to reduce costs, we recorded a charge in
2001 of $15.2 million associated primarily with headcount reductions and
manufacturing transfers. In 2000, we recorded a charge of $1.4 million
related to the close-down and consolidation of operations. In light of our
intention to continue to develop China as a low-cost manufacturing resource
and to seek other manufacturing cost-saving opportunities, we also recorded
a charge of $8.0 million in 1999 associated with the transfer of production
lines from the Americas to China and Europe and the closure of facilities.
These charges relate primarily to severance and other related benefits and
costs of exiting facilities, including lease termination costs and the
write-down of impaired assets, and are expected to be completed during the
first quarter of 2002. During 1999, we also exited our glass batching
business based in Belgium. In this respect, we incurred losses of $4.1
million during 1999 primarily for severance and other costs of exiting this
business. We completed our exit of the glass batching business by the end
of 1999.

     As part of our ongoing cost saving programs, we have launched an
initiative to improve our procurement of materials and services. The
initiative is intended to eliminate price differences between units,
leverage potential opportunities to increase buying power, and establish
worldwide sourcing arrangements. We estimate that we are currently
receiving annualized savings of between $10 to $14 million from this
project.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth certain items from our consolidated
statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and
1999 (amounts in thousands).


(a)  In connection with acquisitions in 1999, including the acquisition of
     the Testut-Lutrana group, we allocated $998 of the purchase price to
     revalue certain inventories (principally work-in-progress and finished
     goods) to fair value (net realizable value). Substantially all such
     inventories were sold during the second quarter of 1999.

(b)  Other charges, net generally includes interest income, foreign
     currency transactions, (gains) losses from sales of assets and other
     items. The 2001 amount also includes a charge of $15,196 related
     primarily to headcount reductions and manufacturing transfers. The
     2000 amount includes a charge of $1,425 related to the close-down and
     consolidation of operations. The 1999 amount includes a gain on an
     asset sale of approximately $3,100, a charge of $8,007 to transfer
     production lines from the Americas to China and Europe and the closure
     of facilities and losses of approximately $4,100 in connection with
     the exit from our glass batching business based in Belgium. For the
     year ended December 31, 1999, the amount shown also includes $825 of
     expenses incurred on behalf of certain selling shareholders in
     connection with our secondary offering in 1999.

(c)  Adjusted Operating Income is defined as operating income (gross profit
     less research and development and selling, general and administrative
     expenses) before amortization and non-recurring costs. Non-recurring
     costs that have been excluded are the costs set forth in Note (a)
     above. We believe that Adjusted Operating Income provides important
     financial information in measuring and comparing our operating
     performance. Adjusted Operating Income is not intended to represent
     operating income under U.S. GAAP and should not be considered as an
     alternative to net earnings as an indicator of our operating
     performance.



YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

     Net sales were $1,148.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001,
compared to $1,095.5 million in the prior year. This reflected an increase
of 7% in local currencies during 2001. Results for 2001 were negatively
impacted by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies.
Net sales in U.S. dollars during 2001 increased 5%.

     Net sales by geographic customer location were as follows: Net sales
in Europe increased 10% in local currencies during 2001 versus the prior
year principally due to strong results in our retail product lines related
to the introduction of the euro currency, offset in part by a weakening in
our industrial product lines during the second half of the year. Net sales
in local currencies during 2001 in the Americas increased 1%. Net sales in
Asia and other markets increased 18% in local currencies during 2001. The
results of our business in Asia and other markets during 2001 reflect
particularly strong sales performance in China and Japan.

     Net sales growth in the Americas was lower than Europe and Asia and
other markets primarily due to a deterioration in economic conditions. To
the extent that economic conditions significantly deteriorate in the
Americas or other parts of the world, our sales growth and profitability
may be adversely affected.

     As previously mentioned, we acquired Rainin Instrument in November
2001. Assuming we had acquired Rainin at the beginning of 2000, the
acquisition would have added approximately $65 million of sales to both
2000 and 2001 on a pro forma basis. In total, acquisitions added
approximately 2% to 2001 sales growth.

     Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 46.1% for 2001 and 45.2%
for 2000. This increase is primarily related to benefits from various cost
saving initiatives.

     Research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales were
5.6% for 2001, compared to 5.1% for the prior year. We continue to make
significant investments in research and development, which increased 16% in
local currencies in 2001.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net
sales decreased to 26.1% for 2001, compared to 27.1% for the prior year, in
part due to lower distribution costs associated with changes in our sales
mix.

     Adjusted Operating Income increased 16% to $165.1 million, or 14.4% of
net sales, for 2001, compared to $142.8 million, or 13.0% of net sales, for
the prior year. The increased operating profit reflected the benefits of
higher sales levels and our continuous efforts to improve productivity. We
believe that Adjusted Operating Income provides important financial
information in measuring and comparing our operating performance. Adjusted
Operating Income is not intended to represent operating income under U.S.
GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings as an
indicator of our performance.

     Interest expense decreased to $17.2 million for 2001, compared to
$20.0 million for the prior year. The decrease was principally due to
reduced debt levels throughout the year.

     Other charges, net were $15.4 million for 2001, compared to other
charges, net of $2.6 million for the prior year. The 2001 amount includes a
charge of $15.2 million ($14.6 million after tax) primarily associated with
headcount reductions and manufacturing transfers. The 2000 amount includes
a charge of $1.4 million related to the close-down and consolidation of
operations.

     Our effective tax rate of 35% before non-recurring items in 2001 was
consistent with the previous year.

     Net earnings were $86.9 million in 2001, compared to $71.5 million in
2000, before the previously mentioned charges associated with headcount
reductions and manufacturing transfers of $14.6 million in 2001 and $1.4
million in 2000. This represents an increase in net earnings of 21%.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

     Net sales were $1,095.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000,
compared to $1,065.5 million in the prior year. This reflected an increase
of 9% in local currencies during 2000. Results for 2000 were negatively
impacted by the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies.
Net sales in U.S. dollars during 2000 increased 3%.

     Net sales by geographic customer location were as follows: Net sales
in Europe increased 11% in local currencies during 2000, versus the prior
year. The increase reflected organic growth in our business and the effect
of the Testut-Lutrana acquisition. Net sales in local currencies during
2000 in the Americas increased 6%. Net sales in Asia and other markets
increased 13% in local currencies during 2000. The results of our business
in Asia and other markets during 2000 reflect strong sales performance in
China and Japan.

     The operating results for Testut-Lutrana (which were included in our
results from May 1, 1999) would have had the effect of increasing our net
sales by an additional $16.3 million in 1999.

     Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 45.2% for 2000 and 1999,
before non-recurring acquisition costs in 1999. During 2000, we experienced
an increase in certain raw material costs, including electronics.

     Research and development expenses as a percentage of net sales were
5.1% for 2000, compared to 5.4% for the prior year. This decrease is the
result of exchange rate movements.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net
sales decreased to 27.1% for 2000, compared to 28.2% for the prior year.

     Adjusted Operating Income increased 15% to $142.8 million, or 13.0% of
net sales, for 2000, compared to $123.7 million, or 11.6% of net sales, for
the prior year. The 1999 period excludes the previously noted non-recurring
acquisition charge of $1.0 million for the revaluation of inventories to
fair value. The increased operating profit reflected the benefits of higher
sales levels and our continuous efforts to improve productivity. We believe
that Adjusted Operating Income provides important financial information in
measuring and comparing our operating performance. Adjusted Operating
Income is not intended to represent operating income under U.S. GAAP and
should not be considered as an alternative to net earnings as an indicator
of our performance.

     Interest expense decreased to $20.0 million for 2000, compared to
$22.0 million for the prior year. The decrease was principally due to
reduced debt levels.

     Other charges, net were $2.6 million for 2000, compared to other
charges, net of $10.5 million for the prior year. The 2000 amount includes
a charge of $1.4 million related to the close-down and consolidation of
operations. The 1999 amount also included a gain on an asset sale of $3.1
million, charges of $8.0 million regarding the transfer of production lines
from the Americas to China and Europe and the closure of facilities, losses
of $4.1 million to exit our glass batching business based in Belgium and a
charge of $0.8 million relating to the secondary offering completed in
1999.

     Our effective tax rate of 35% before non-recurring items in 2000 was
consistent with the previous year.

     Net earnings were $71.5 million in 2000, compared to $57.9 million in
1999, before the $1.4 million charge to close down and consolidate
operations in 2000, and expenses for the secondary offering, acquisition
charges and the $8.0 million charge to transfer production lines from the
Americas to China and Europe and the closure of facilities in 1999. This
represents an increase of 23%.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Cash provided by operating activities totalled $101.6 million in 2001,
compared to $84.7 million in 2000 and $91.3 million in 1999. The increase
in 2001 resulted principally from increased Adjusted Operating Income and
improved working capital management. The decrease in 2000 from 1999
resulted principally from a one-time payment of $4.2 million associated
with an early retirement plan from previous years, as well as an increase
in inventory levels associated with product introductions, production
transfers and increased safety stocks of electronics. In 1999, we also
increased our accounts payable terms with many suppliers to improve our
working capital efficiency. This resulted in an increase in cash provided
by operating activities of $16.2 million in 1999. We maintained these
payment terms in 2000, and therefore, accounts payables were not a source
of cash in 2000. Cash provided by operating activities includes payments
for restructuring, certain acquisition integration activities and a
one-time payment in 2000 associated with an early retirement plan from
previous years. These amounts totalled $10.7 million, $10.3 million and
$5.9 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Excluding these amounts,
cash provided by operating activities totalled $112.3 million in 2001,
compared to $95.0 million in 2000 and $97.2 million in 1999.

     During 2001, we spent approximately $309.8 million on acquisitions,
including the issuance of shares of $144.3 million and additional
consideration related to earn-out periods associated with acquisitions
consummated in prior years. The cash portion of these purchases were funded
from cash generated from operations and additional borrowings. We continue
to explore potential acquisitions. In connection with any acquisition, we
may incur additional indebtedness. In addition, we may make additional
earn-out payments relating to certain of these and previous year
acquisitions in the future, including up to $60 million for Rainin. Up to
half of any additional contingent payment for Rainin may be paid in shares
of our common stock and the remainder will be paid in cash.

     Capital expenditures are a significant use of funds and are made
primarily for machinery, equipment and the purchase and expansion of
facilities. Our capital expenditures totalled $33.2 million in 2001, $29.3
million in 2000 and $29.2 million in 1999. We expect capital expenditures
to increase as our business grows, and fluctuate as currency exchange rates
change. We also expect capital expenditures to increase between $5 to $10
million in 2002 principally due to spending associated with Rainin's new
facility in California, USA.

     At December 31, 2001, our consolidated debt, net of cash, was $332.0
million. We had borrowings of $332.8 million under our credit agreement and
$26.9 million under various other arrangements as of December 31, 2001. Of
our credit agreement borrowings, approximately $94.4 million was borrowed
as term loans scheduled to mature in 2004 and $238.4 million was borrowed
under a multi-currency revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2001, we
had $162.2 million of availability remaining under the revolving credit
facility.

     At December 31, 2001, approximately $278.5 million of the borrowings
under the credit agreement and local working capital facilities were
denominated in U.S. dollars. The balance of the borrowings under the credit
agreement and local working capital facilities were denominated in certain
of our other principal trading currencies amounting to approximately $81.2
million at December 31, 2001. Changes in exchange rates between the
currencies in which we generate cash flow and the currencies in which our
borrowings are denominated affect our liquidity. In addition, because we
borrow in a variety of currencies, our debt balances fluctuate due to
changes in exchange rates.

     Under the credit agreement, amounts outstanding under the term loans
are payable in quarterly installments. In addition, the credit agreement
obligates us to make mandatory prepayments in certain circumstances with
the proceeds of asset sales or issuance of capital stock or indebtedness
and with certain excess cash flow. The credit agreement imposes certain
restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions and
limitations on the ability to pay dividends to our shareholders, incur
indebtedness, make investments, grant liens, sell financial assets and
engage in certain other activities. We must also comply with several
financial and other covenants, including requirements that we maintain the
following criteria as specifically defined in our credit agreement:

     o    a fixed charge coverage ratio (the ratio of EBITDA less capital
          expenditures to interest expense) of 3.25:1 (at December 31,
          2001, this ratio was more than 8.5:1);

     o    a debt to EBITDA ratio of no more than 4:1 (at December 31, 2001,
          this ratio was less than 2:1); and

     o    a minimum net worth (as specifically defined in the credit
          agreement) of at least $300 million (at December 31, 2001, we
          exceeded the minimum by more than 2.5 times)

     A deterioration in our financial performance could result in a breach
of these covenants and trigger the lenders' right to require immediate
repayment of all or part of the indebtedness.

     However at December 31, 2001, the Company is in compliance with all
covenants set forth in its credit facility and other indentures. In
addition, the Company does not have any downgrade triggers that would
accelerate the maturity dates of its debt.

     The interest rates for our borrowings under the credit agreement are
based in part on our credit rating. For so long as Standard & Poor's
Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., rates our
debt at "BBB-" or above and Moody's Investors Service Inc. rates our debt
at "Baa3" or above, the applicable interest rates are determined from a
grid that sets out the interest rates for each rating grade. However, if
our credit rating falls below "BBB-" or "Baa3" then the applicable interest
rates are set by reference to a separate grid in which interest rate levels
are determined by our debt to EBITDA ratio. We estimate that if our credit
rating was reduced to below investment grade our interest expense would
increase by approximately $0.7 million per year.

     The following summarizes certain of our contractual obligations at
December 31, 2001 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on
our liquidity and cash flow in future periods. We do not have significant
outstanding letters of credit or other financial commitments. During the
ordinary course of business we enter into contracts to purchase raw
materials and components for manufacture. In general these commitments do
not extend for more than a few months.


     (a) As described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     (b) As described in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     We currently believe that cash flow from operating activities,
together with borrowings available under the credit agreement and local
working capital facilities, will be sufficient to fund currently
anticipated working capital needs and capital spending requirements as well
as debt service requirements for at least several years, but there can be
no assurance that this will be the case.

EFFECT OF CURRENCY ON RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Because we conduct operations in many countries, our operating income
can be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
Swiss franc-denominated expenses represent a much greater percentage of our
operating expenses than Swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our net
sales. In part, this is because most of our manufacturing costs in
Switzerland relate to products that are sold outside Switzerland. Moreover,
a substantial percentage of our research and development expenses and
general and administrative expenses are incurred in Switzerland. Therefore,
if the Swiss franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading
currencies (e.g., the U.S. dollar, the euro, other major European
currencies and the Japanese yen), our operating profit is reduced. We also
have significantly more sales in European currencies (other than the Swiss
franc) than we have expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European
currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc, it also
decreases our operating profits. In recent years, the Swiss franc and other
European currencies have generally moved in a consistent manner versus the
U.S. dollar. Therefore, because the two effects previously described have
offset each other, our operating profits have not been materially affected
by movements in the U.S. dollar exchange rate versus European currencies.
However, there can be no assurance that these currencies will continue to
move in a consistent manner in the future. We estimate that a one percent
strengthening of the Swiss franc against the euro would result in a
decrease in our earnings before tax of $0.8 million to $1.2 million on an
annual basis. In addition to the effects of exchange rate movements on
operating profits, our debt levels can fluctuate due to changes in exchange
rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar and the Swiss franc.

TAXES

     We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions throughout the world.
Our effective tax rate and tax liability will be affected by a number of
factors, such as the amount of taxable income in particular jurisdictions,
the tax rates in such jurisdictions, tax treaties between jurisdictions,
the extent to which we transfer funds between jurisdictions and repatriate
income, and changes in law. Generally, the tax liability for each taxpayer
within the group is determined either (i) on a
non-consolidated/non-combined basis or (ii) on a consolidated/combined
basis only with other eligible entities subject to tax in the same
jurisdiction, in either case without regard to the taxable losses of
non-consolidated/non-combined affiliated legal entities. As a result, we
may pay income taxes to certain jurisdictions even though on an overall
basis we incur a net loss for the period.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations,
including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, the
handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of
contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances.

     We incur capital and operating expenditures in complying with
environmental laws and regulations both in the United States and abroad. We
are currently involved in, or have potential liability with respect to, the
remediation of past contamination in facilities both in the United States
and abroad. In addition, some of these facilities have or had been in
operation for many decades and may have used substances or generated and
disposed of wastes that are hazardous or may be considered hazardous in the
future. Such sites and disposal sites owned by others to which we sent
waste may in the future be identified as contaminated and require
remediation. Accordingly, it is possible that we could become subject to
additional environmental liabilities in the future that may harm our
results of operations or financial condition.

INFLATION

     Inflation can affect the costs of goods and services that we use. The
competitive environment in which we operate limits somewhat our ability to
recover higher costs through increased selling prices. Moreover, there may
be differences in inflation rates between countries in which we incur the
major portion of our costs and other countries in which we sell products,
which may limit our ability to recover increased costs. We remain committed
to operations in China, Latin America and Eastern Europe, which have
experienced inflationary conditions. To date, inflationary conditions have
not had a material effect on our operating results. However, if our
presence in China, Latin America and Eastern Europe increases, these
inflationary conditions could have a greater impact on our operating
results.






SEASONALITY

     Our business has historically experienced a slight amount of seasonal
variation, with sales in the first quarter slightly lower than, and sales
in the fourth quarter slightly higher than, sales in the second and third
quarters. This trend has a somewhat greater effect on income from
operations than on net sales because fixed costs are spread evenly across
all quarters.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     We have only limited involvement with derivative financial instruments
and do not use them for trading purposes.

     We have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge
short-term intercompany balances with our foreign businesses. Such
contracts limit our exposure to both favorable and unfavorable currency
fluctuations. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the U.S. dollar and
Swiss franc on these foreign currency-denominated contracts indicates that
if the U.S. dollar and Swiss franc uniformly worsened by 10% against all of
our currency exposures, the fair value of these instruments would decrease
by $5.3 million at December 31, 2001, as compared with $1.2 million at
December 31, 2000. Any resulting changes in fair value would be offset by
changes in the underlying hedged balance sheet position. The sensitivity
analysis assumes a parallel shift in foreign currency exchange rates. The
assumption that exchange rates change in parallel fashion may overstate the
impact of changing exchange rates on assets and liabilities denominated in
a foreign currency. We also have other currency risks as described under
"Effect of Currency on Results of Operations."

     We have entered into certain interest rate swap agreements in order to
limit our exposure to increases in interest rates. These contracts are more
fully described in Note 5 to our audited consolidated financial statements.
Based on our agreements outstanding at December 31, 2001, a 100 basis point
increase in interest rates would result in an increase in the net aggregate
market value of these instruments of $6.0 million, as compared with $0.8
million at December 31, 2000. Conversely, a 100 basis point decrease in
interest rates would result in a $6.0 million net reduction in the net
aggregate market value of these instruments, as compared with $0.7 million
at December 31, 2000. Any change in fair value would not affect our
Consolidated Statement of Operations unless such agreements and the
variable rate debt they hedge were prematurely settled.

     We have designated certain of our Swiss franc debt as a hedge of our
net investments. A sensitivity analysis to changes in the U.S. dollar on
such debt at December 31, 2001 indicates that if the U.S. dollar weakened
by 10% against the Swiss franc, the fair value of such debt would increase
by $3.8 million, as compared with $9.7 million at December 31, 2000. Any
changes in fair value of the debt are recorded in comprehensive income and
offset the impact on comprehensive income of foreign exchange changes on
the net investments they hedge.




CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Management's discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements,
which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we
evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories,
intangible assets, pensions and other post-retirement benefits, income
taxes, and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on
historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to
be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis
for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

     We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more
significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements. For a detailed discussion on the
application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 1 in our
Consolidated Financial Statements.

- - Accounts receivables. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for
estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make
required payments. If the financial condition of our customers were to
deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments,
additional allowances may be required.

- - Inventory. We record our inventory at the lower of cost or market. The
estimated market value is based on assumptions for future demand and
related pricing. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those
projected by management, reductions in the value of inventory may be
required.

- - Acquired intangibles. Our business acquisitions typically result in
goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future
period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that we will
incur. The determination of the value of such intangible assets requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated
financial statements.

- - Deferred tax assets. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our
deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be
realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing
prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the
valuation allowance, in the event we were to determine that we would be
able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net
recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would increase
income in the period such determination was made. Likewise, should we
determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of the net
deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset
would be charged to income in the period such determination was made.





NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued
Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 ("SFAS 141"),
"Business Combinations" and No. 142 ("SFAS 142"), "Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets." SFAS 141 prospectively prohibits the pooling of
interest method of accounting for business combinations initiated after
June 30, 2001 and also provides new criteria for recognizing acquired
intangible assets separately from goodwill. SFAS 142, effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2001, requires that goodwill no longer
be amortized to earnings, but instead be reviewed for impairment under SFAS
142 upon initial adoption of the Statement and on an annual basis going
forward. In addition, any goodwill resulting from acquisitions completed
after June 30, 2001 is not amortized. We estimate the adoption of these
Statements will increase our net earnings by $6.5 million and our diluted
earnings per share by $0.15 per share on an annual basis, or $0.14 per
share adjusting for additional shares issued in connection with our
acquisition of Rainin. We estimate the adoption of these Statements would
have had the following effects on our quarterly financial results for the
year ended December 31, 2001:



     SFAS 142 requires that goodwill be tested annually for impairment
using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential
impairment and, in transition, this step must be measured as of the
beginning of the fiscal year. However, a company has six months from the
date of adoption to complete the first step. We expect to complete that
first step of the goodwill impairment test during the first quarter of
2002. The second step of the goodwill impairment test measures the amount
of the impairment loss (measured as of the beginning of the year of
adoption), if any, and must be completed by the end of the company's fiscal
year. Intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite life will be tested
for impairment using a one-step process which compares the fair value to
the carrying amount of the asset as of the beginning of the fiscal year,
and pursuant to the requirements of SFAS 142 will be completed during the
first quarter of 2002. Any impairment loss resulting from the transitional
impairment tests will be reflected as the cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle in the first quarter 2002. We have not yet determined
what effect these impairment tests will have on our earnings and financial
position.

     In October 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 144, "Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets" ("SFAS 144"). SFAS 144 supersedes Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 121, "Accounting for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121") and amends Accounting
Principles Bulletin Opinion No. 30, "Reporting Results of Operations -
Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business". SFAS 144
develops one accounting model for long-lived assets that are disposed of by
sales, based on the model previously developed in SFAS 121. This Statement
also makes changes to the manner in which amounts from discontinued
operations are measured and expands the scope of the components of an
entity that qualify for discontinued operations treatment. This Statement
is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 31, 2001. We have
not fully evaluated the impact of adopting this Statement on our
consolidated financial statements.


FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND ASSOCIATED RISKS

     This annual report includes forward-looking statements based on our
current expectations and projections about future events, including:
strategic plans; potential growth, including penetration of developed
markets, use of e-commerce capabilities and opportunities in emerging
markets; planned research and development efforts, product introductions
and innovation; meeting customer expectations; planned operational changes,
including productivity improvements; euro conversion issues; future
financial performance, including expected capital expenditures; research
and development expenditures; potential acquisitions; impact of completed
acquisitions; future cash sources and requirements; liquidity; impact of
environmental costs; and potential cost savings, including from our
procurement initiative.

     These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties, including those identified in Exhibit 99.1 to our Annual
Report on Form 10-K, which could cause our actual results to differ
materially from historical results or those anticipated and certain of
which are beyond our control. The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate"
and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. We undertake
no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. New
risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to
predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such
risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or
combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from
those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and
uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements as a prediction of actual results.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Discussion of this item is on page 37 of Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The financial statements required by this item are set forth on pages
F-1 through F-27 and the related financial schedule is set forth on page
S-1.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.




                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The directors and executive officers of the Company are set forth
below. All directors hold office until the annual meeting of shareholders
following their election or until their successors are duly elected and
qualified. Officers are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at
the discretion of the Board.

NAME                          AGE    POSITION
- ----                          ---    --------

Robert F. Spoerry              46    President, Chief Executive Officer
                                     and Chairman of the Board of Directors
William P. Donnelly            40    Chief Financial Officer (1)
Lukas Braunschweiler           45    Head of Laboratory and Head of Packaging
                                     Industry
Peter Burker                   56    Head of Human Resources
Olivier A. Filliol             35    Head of Process Analytics
Jean-Lucien Gloor              49    Head of Information Systems and Logistics
Timothy P. Haynes              37    Head of Retail
Karl M. Lang                   55    Head of Asia/Pacific
Urs Widmer                     51    Head of Industrial
Philip Caldwell                82    Director
John T. Dickson                56    Director
Philip H.  Geier               67    Director
Reginald H. Jones              84    Director
John D. Macomber               74    Director
George M. Milne                58    Director
Thomas P. Salice               42    Director
____________________________________________________________________________
(1)  The Company recently announced that Mr. Donnelly will assume the
     position of Head of Packaging Industry, and that Dennis Braun will
     join the Company in March 2002 as Chief Financial Officer. Before
     joining the Company, Dennis Braun, age 37, was with
     PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as a partner in the Audit & Business
     Advisory Services group since 1999. Mr. Braun had been with
     PricewaterhouseCoopers since 1986, except for a period in 1996 and
     1997 when he obtained a Masters in Business Administration.

     Robert F. Spoerry has been President and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company since 1993. He served as Head of Industrial and Retail (Europe)
of the Company from 1987 to 1993. Mr. Spoerry has been a Director since
October 1996. Mr. Spoerry has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since
May 1998.

     William P. Donnelly has been Chief Financial Officer of the Company
since 1997. From 1993 until joining the Company, he held various senior
financial and management positions, including most recently Group Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer with Elsag Bailey Process Automation,
a global manufacturer of instrumentation and analytical products and
developer of distributed control systems. The Company recently announced
that Mr. Donnelly is leaving the position of Chief Financial Officer
effective March 2002. After a transition period with the new Chief
Financial Officer, Dennis Braun, Mr. Donnelly will assume the position of
Head of Packaging Industry.

     Lukas Braunschweiler has been Head of Laboratory Division and Head of
Packaging Industry Division since October 2001. From 1999 to 2001 he has
served as Head of Industrial and Retail of the Company. From 1995 to 1999
he served as Head of Industrial and Retail (Europe). From 1992 until 1995
he held various senior management positions with the Landis & Gyr Group, a
manufacturer of electrical meters. Prior to 1992, he was a Vice President
in the Technology Group of Saurer Group, a manufacturer of textile
machinery.

     Peter Burker has been Head of Human Resources of the Company since
1994. From 1992 to 1994 he was the Company's General Manager in Spain, and
from 1989 to 1991 he headed the Company's operations in Italy.

     Olivier A. Filliol has been Head of Process Analytics of the Company
since June 1999. From June 1998 to June 1999 he served as General Manager
of Hi-Speed Checkweigher Inc., a Company subsidiary in New York. From 1994
to April 1998, he was a Strategy Consultant with the international
consulting firm Bain & Company working in the Geneva, Paris, London and
Sydney offices.

     Jean-Lucien Gloor has been Head of Information Systems and Logistics
and Chief Information Officer of the Company since March 2001. From 1999
until joining the Company, he served as Head of Central Server Platforms at
Credit Suisse, one of the leading Swiss banks. Prior to 1999, he held
various senior information systems positions during fifteen years with The
Dow Chemical Company.

     Timothy P. Haynes has been Head of Retail of the Company since October
2001. From 1999 to 2001 he served as Business Unit Leader for the Company's
Transport, Shipping, Mail and Components business. From 1992 to 1999 he
held various management positions at Emerson Electric in their process
control and measurement businesses, including from 1997 to 1999 Vice
President of Marketing and Product Development in their Process Analytic
Division.

     Karl M. Lang has been Head of Asia / Pacific of the Company since
January 2000. From 1994 to January 2000 he served as Head of Laboratory.
From 1991 to 1994 he was based in Japan as a representative of senior
management with responsibility for expansion of the Asian operations.

     Urs Widmer has been Head of Industrial since 1999. From 1984 to 1999
he served in various management functions within the Company, including
most recently Head of Standard Industrial (Europe) from 1995 to 1999. Prior
to 1984 he held various management positions with Siemens, a global
manufacturer of solutions for information and communications, automation
and control, power and transportation.

     Philip Caldwell has been a Director since October 1996. Prior to May
1998, Mr. Caldwell served as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr.
Caldwell spent 32 years at Ford Motor Company, where he served as Chairman
of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer from 1980 to 1985 and
a Director from 1973 to 1990. He served as a Director and Senior Managing
Director of Lehman Bros. Inc. and its predecessor, Shearson Lehman Brothers
Holdings, Inc., from 1985 to February 1998. Mr. Caldwell is also a Director
of the Mexico Fund, Russell Reynolds Associates, Inc. and Waters
Corporation. He has served as a Director of the Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.,
the Chase Manhattan Corp., Digital Equipment Corporation, Federated
Department Stores Inc., Kellogg Company, CasTech Aluminum Group Inc.,
Specialty Coatings International Inc., American Guarantee & Liability
Insurance Company, Zurich Holding Company of America, Inc., and Zurich
Reinsurance Centre Holdings, Inc.

     John T. Dickson has been a Director since March 2000. Mr. Dickson is
Chief Executive Officer and President of Agere Systems Inc, the former
Microelectronics Group of Lucent, a position he has held since March 2001.
Mr. Dickson joined the Microelectronics and Communications Technologies
Group of Lucent Technologies in 1993. He served as Chief Executive Officer
of the Microelectronics Group since January 1998 and Executive Vice
President of Lucent Technologies since 1999. Mr. Dickson is also a Director
of the Semiconductor Industry Association and a member of the Board of
Trustees of Lehigh Valley Health Network.

     Philip H. Geier has been a Director since July 2001. Mr. Geier was
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Interpublic Group
of Companies, Inc. from 1980 to 2000 and was a Director of Interpublic
since 1975. Mr. Geier is a Director of AEA Investors Inc., Crossair Ltd.,
Fiduciary Trust Company International and Foot Locker, Inc.

     Reginald H. Jones has been a Director since October 1996. Mr. Jones
retired as Chairman of the Board of Directors of General Electric Company
("General Electric") in April 1981. At General Electric, he served as
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer from
December 1972 through April 1981, President from June 1972 to December 1972
and a Director from August 1971 to April 1981.

     John D. Macomber has been a Director since October 1996. He has been a
principal of JDM Investment Group since 1992. He was Chairman and President
of the Export-Import Bank of the United States (an agency of the U.S.
Government) from 1989 to 1992. From 1973 to 1986 Mr. Macomber was Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Celanese Corporation. Prior to that, Mr.
Macomber was a Senior Partner of McKinsey & Company. Mr. Macomber is also a
Director of AEA Investors Inc., Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Mirror
Woulds Technology, Sovereign Specialty Chemicals, Inc. and Textron Inc.

     George M. Milne, Jr., Ph.D., has been a Director since September 1999.
Mr. Milne is Executive Vice President, Pfizer Global Research and
Development and President, Worldwide Strategic and Operations Management.
In this position he holds global responsibility for PGRD's Strategic
Management, Strategic Alliance Collaborations, Finance, Information
Technology, Licensing, Intellectual Property, Site Operations Management
and Veterinary Medicine R&D. Dr. Milne is a member of the Pfizer Management
Council. He was appointed Senior Vice President in 1988 and President of
Central Research in 1993 with global responsibility for Human and
Veterinary Medicine R&D.

     Thomas P. Salice has been a Director since October 1996. Mr. Salice is
President and Chief Executive Officer of AEA Investors Inc. and has been
associated with AEA Investors Inc. since June 1989. Mr. Salice is also a
Director of Waters Corporation and Sovereign Specialty Chemicals, Inc.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information appearing in the sections captioned "Board of
Directors Information," "Executive Compensation" and "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" in the Registrant's Proxy
Statement for the 2002 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "2002 Proxy
Statement") is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information appearing in the section "Share Ownership" in the 2002
Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

          None.

                                  PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         (a)      Documents Filed as Part of this Report:

                  1.     Financial Statements.  See Index to Consolidated
                         Financial Statements included on page F-1.


                  2.     Financial Statement Schedule.  See Schedule II,
                         which is included on page S-1.


                  3.     List of Exhibits.  See Index of Exhibits included
                         on page E-1.

         (b)      Reports on Form 8-K:




          DATE FILED          ITEMS REPORTED
          ----------          --------------

          October 15, 2001    Definitive   agreement   to  acquire   Rainin
                              Instrument, LLC

          November 28, 2001   Completion  of  the   acquisition  of  Rainin
                              Instrument, LLC

          December 21, 2001   Financial  statements  of  Rainin  Instrument
                              Company,  Inc.  (the  predecessor  to  Rainin
                              Instrument,   LLC)  and  Pro  Forma  Combined
                              Financial Statements.







                                 SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section 13 or Section  15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the  undersigned,  thereunto duly
authorized.

                                     Mettler-Toledo International Inc.
                                              (Registrant)

Date: March 4, 2002                  By:  /s/ ROBERT F. SPOERRY
                                          ---------------------
                                          Robert F. Spoerry
                                          Chairman of the Board,
                                          President and Chief
                                          Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the  requirements of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended,  this Annual  Report on Form 10-K has been signed  below by the
following  persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.


















                     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Mettler-Toledo International Inc.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
under Item 14(a)(1) on page 44 present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Mettler-Toledo International Inc. and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2001 in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the
financial statement schedule listed in the index under Item 14 (a) (2) on
page 44 presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated
financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits
of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.



PricewaterhouseCoopers AG


Zurich, Switzerland
February 7, 2002


































                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
               NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

1.            BUSINESS DESCRIPTION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Mettler-Toledo International Inc. ("Mettler-Toledo" or the "Company")
is a global manufacturer and marketer of precision instruments, including
weighing and certain analytical and measurement technologies, for use in
laboratory, industrial and food retailing applications. The Company is also
a leading provider of automated chemistry solutions used in drug and
chemical compound discovery and development. The Company's primary
manufacturing facilities are located in Switzerland, the United States,
Germany, the United Kingdom, France and China. The Company's principal
executive offices are located in Greifensee, Switzerland.

     The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of
America ("U.S. GAAP") and include all entities in which the Company has
control, including its majority owned subsidiaries. Certain amounts in the
prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform with
current year presentation.

     All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.
Investments in which the Company has voting rights between 20% to 50% are
accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

     The preparation of financial statements requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, as well as disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from
those estimates.

2.            SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Cash and Cash Equivalents

     Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with
original maturity dates of three months or less.

     Inventories

     Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost, which
includes direct materials, labor and overhead plus indirect overhead, is
determined using the first in, first out (FIFO) or weighted average cost
methods.







                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

2.            SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES - (CONTINUED)

     Property, Plant and Equipment

     Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation. Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

      Buildings and improvements         15 to 50 years
      Machinery and equipment            3 to 12 years
      Computer software                  3 to 5 years
      Leasehold improvements             Shorter of useful life or lease term

     In accordance with Statement of Position 98-1, "Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use", the
Company expenses all costs incurred in the preliminary project stage and
capitalizes certain direct costs associated with the development and
purchase of internal-use software within other non-current assets.
Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the software, generally not exceeding five years.

     The Company reviews its property, plant and equipment for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of an asset may not be recoverable. An impairment loss would be
recognized when estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use
of the asset and its eventual disposition are less than its carrying
amount.

     Excess of Cost over Net Assets Acquired and Other Intangible Assets

     The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets
acquired and other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis
over the expected period to be benefited. The Company assesses the
recoverability of such amounts by determining whether the amortization of
the balance over its remaining life can be recovered from the undiscounted
future operating cash flows of the acquired operations.

     Taxation

     The Company files tax returns in each jurisdiction in which it
operates. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future
tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in
the respective jurisdictions in which the Company operates that are
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. In assessing the
realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is
more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets
will not be realized.



                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

2.       SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES - (CONTINUED)

     Generally, deferred taxes are not provided on the unremitted earnings
of subsidiaries outside of the United States because it is expected that
these earnings are permanently reinvested and such determination is not
practicable. Such earnings may become taxable upon the sale or liquidation
of these subsidiaries or upon the remittance of dividends. Deferred taxes
are provided in situations where the Company's subsidiaries plan to make
future dividend distributions.

     Currency Translation and Transactions

     The reporting currency for the consolidated financial statements of
the Company is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for the Company's
operations is generally the applicable local currency. Accordingly, the
assets and liabilities of companies whose functional currency is other than
the U.S. dollar are included in the consolidated financial statements by
translating the assets and liabilities into the reporting currency at the
exchange rates applicable at the end of the reporting period. The
statements of operations and cash flows of such non-U.S. dollar functional
currency operations are translated at the monthly average exchange rates
during the year. Translation gains or losses are accumulated in other
comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'
Equity.

     Revenue Recognition

     Revenue is recognized when title to a product has transferred and any
significant customer obligations have been fulfilled. Revenues from service
contracts are recognized ratably over the contract period.

     Research and Development

     Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

     Earnings per Common Share

     As described in Note 10, in accordance with the treasury stock method,
the Company has included 2,369,179 and 3,243,669 equivalent shares relating
to 4,379,575 outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock in the
calculation of diluted weighted average number of common shares for years
ending December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     Derivative Financial Instruments

     The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
133 "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as
amended, on January 1, 2001. This Statement establishes accounting and
reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively referred
to as derivatives), and for hedging activities. It requires that an entity
recognizes all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the statement
of financial position and measure those instruments at fair value. The
cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 133 as of January 1, 2001 was not
material to the Company's consolidated financial statements.



                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

2.            SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES - (CONTINUED)

     The Company has only limited involvement with derivative financial
instruments and does not use them for trading purposes. As described more
fully in Note 5 below, the Company enters into foreign currency forward
contracts to hedge short-term intercompany transactions with its foreign
businesses. Such contracts limit the Company's exposure to both favorable
and unfavorable currency fluctuations. These contracts are adjusted to
reflect market values as of each balance sheet date, with the resulting
changes in fair value being recognized in other charges, net.

     The Company also enters into certain interest rate swap and cap
agreements in order to reduce its exposure to changes in interest rates.
The differential paid or received on interest rate swap agreements is
recognized as interest expense over the life of the agreements as incurred.
The fair value of outstanding interest rate swap and cap agreements that
are effective cash flow hedges at December 31, 2001 are included in the
Company's Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity.

     The Company has designated certain of its Swiss franc debt as a hedge
of its net investments. Any changes in fair value of the debt are recorded
in comprehensive income (loss) and offset the net investments they hedge.

     Stock Based Compensation

     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in
accounting for its stock option plan.

     Concentration of Credit Risk

     The Company's revenue base is widely diversified by geographic region
and by individual customer. The Company's products are utilized in many
different industries, although extensively in the pharmaceutical, food and
beverage, transportation and logistics and chemicals industries. The
Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial
condition and, generally, requires no collateral from its customers.

3.            BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

     During 2001, the Company spent approximately $309.8 million on
acquisitions, including the issuance of shares and additional consideration
related to earn-out periods associated with acquisitions consummated in
prior years. The Company accounted for the acquisition payments using the
purchase method of accounting. The Company may be required to make
additional earn-out payments based upon the achievement of certain
financial performance levels relating to certain of these acquisitions in
the future. The fair value of any earn-out payments will be recorded as
additional consideration of the acquired enterprise and recorded as
goodwill and evaluated for impairment, when such payments are deemed
issuable to the sellers.



                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

3.            BUSINESS COMBINATIONS - (CONTINUED)

     In November 2001, the Company acquired the issued and outstanding
membership units of Rainin Instrument, LLC. for approximately $294.2
million. Rainin is a developer and manufacturer of pipetting solutions used
in pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical research applications. As a
result of the acquisition the Company is expected to be the leading
provider of pipetting solutions in North America.

     The aggregate purchase price for Rainin was $294.2 million, including
$149.9 million of cash and the issuance of common stock valued at $144.3
million, plus an additional contingent payment, if any, of up to $60
million. The value of 3,388,132 common shares issued was determined based
on the average five days closing price of Mettler-Toledo common shares
before the announcement of the transaction. Up to half of any additional
contingent payment may be paid in shares of the Company's common stock and
the remainder will be paid in cash.

     The following table summarizes the estimated fair values of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition.

         Current assets..........................................   $  22,653
         Property, plant and equipment...........................       4,168
         Intangible assets.......................................     127,074
         Goodwill................................................     148,624
                                                                     --------
           Total assets acquired ................................     302,519
         Current liabilities.....................................       8,228
         Non-current liabilities.................................          57
                                                                     --------
           Total liabilities assumed.............................       8,285
                                                                     --------
           Net assets acquired...................................    $294,234
                                                                     ========

     The identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line
basis over periods ranging from 11 to 45 years, and the annual aggregate
amortization expense is estimated at $3.1 million. The identifiable
intangible assets include customer relationships of $67.4 million,
tradename of $22.4 million, intellectual property license of $19.9 million
and technology and patents of $17.4 million. The $148.6 million of goodwill
was assigned to the company's Principal U.S. Operations segment and is
expected to be fully deductible for tax purposes. This goodwill and certain
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives approximating $42.3 million
are not subject to amortization in accordance with current generally
accepted accounting principles.

     The following summarized unaudited pro forma information assumes the
acquisition of Rainin occurred on January 1, 2000. The pro forma data
reflects adjustments directly related to the acquisition, and does not
include adjustments that may arise as a consequence of the acquisition.
Accordingly, the unaudited pro forma information does not purport to be
indicative of what the Company's combined results of operations would
actually have been had the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2000 or to
project the Company's combined results of operations for any future
periods.





     During 2000, the Company spent approximately $55.5 million on
acquisitions, including the acquisition of Thornton Inc., approximately
$10.2 million of additional consideration related to earn-out periods
associated with acquisitions consummated in prior years, seller financing
of $27.6 million and working capital retained by sellers that has been
excluded from the purchase price allocation. Thornton is the market leader
in pure and ultra-pure industrial water monitoring instrumentation used in
semi-conductor, micro-electronics, pharmaceutical and biotech applications.
The Company accounted for the acquisition payments using the purchase
method of accounting. The Company may be required to make additional
earn-out payments based upon the achievement of certain financial
performance levels relating to certain of these acquisitions in the future.
The fair value of any earn-out payments will be recorded as additional
consideration of the acquired enterprise and recorded as goodwill and
evaluated for impairment, when such payments are deemed issuable to the
sellers.

     During 1999, the Company spent approximately $20.5 million on
acquisitions including the net assets of the Testut-Lutrana group, a
leading manufacturer and marketer of industrial and retail weighing
instruments in France. This amount includes approximately $2.0 million of
working capital retained by sellers that has been excluded from the
purchase price allocation. The Company accounted for the acquisitions using
the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the costs of the
acquisitions were allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based upon their respective fair values. In this respect, the Company
allocated $1.0 million of the purchase price to revalue certain finished
goods inventories to fair value. Substantially all of such inventories were
sold in 1999.





5.            FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     At December 31, 2001, the Company had certain interest rate swap
agreements outstanding that fix the variable interest obligation associated
with CHF 50 million of Swiss franc-based debt and $260 million of USD-based
debt. Certain of these agreements have forward starting dates commencing in
2002, with various maturities beginning in 2003. The fixed rates associated
with the swap of Swiss franc debt are approximately 3.6%, while the rates
associated with the USD are approximately 4.0% plus the Company's normal
interest margin. The swaps are effective at three-month LIBOR rates. At
December 31, 2001 and 2000, the fair market value of such financial
instruments was approximately $(1.7) million and $(0.5) million,
respectively.

     At December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding foreign currency
forward contracts in the amount of $47.8 million. The purpose of these
contracts is to hedge short-term intercompany balances with its foreign
businesses. The fair value of these contracts was not materially different
from the carrying value at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     The Company may be exposed to credit losses in the event of
nonperformance by the counterparties to its derivative financial instrument
contracts. Counterparties are established banks and financial institutions
with high credit ratings. The Company has no reason to believe that such
counterparties will not be able to fully satisfy their obligations under
these contracts.

     The fair values of all derivative financial instruments are estimated
based on current settlement prices of comparable contracts obtained from
dealer quotes. The values represent the estimated amount the Company would
pay or receive to terminate the agreements at the reporting date, taking
into account current creditworthiness of the counterparties.



     The Company has a multi-currency $400.0 million revolving credit
facility and a CDN $26.3 million Canadian revolving credit facility under
its credit agreement. Loans under these revolving credit facilities may be
repaid and reborrowed and are due in full on May 19, 2004. At December 31,
2001, the Company had $162.2 million of additional borrowing capacity under
its credit agreement. The Company has the ability to refinance its
short-term borrowings through its revolving facilities for an uninterrupted
period extending beyond one year. Accordingly, approximately $208 million
of the Company's short-term borrowings at December 31, 2001 have been
reclassified to long-term.

     The aggregate maturities of the Company's term loan obligations during
the years 2003 and 2004 are approximately $35.9 million and $27.0 million,
respectively.

     The Company is required to pay a facility fee based in part on its
credit rating. The facility fee at December 31, 2001 was equal to 0.15%. At
December 31, 2001, borrowings under the Company's revolving facilities
carried an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.3%. The Company's weighted average
interest rate for the year ended December 31, 2001 was approximately 6.0%.








                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

8.       LONG-TERM DEBT - (CONTINUED)

     The Company's credit agreement contains covenants, including
limitations on the Company's ability to pay dividends to shareholders,
incur indebtedness, make investments, grant liens, sell financial assets
and engage in certain other activities. The credit agreement also requires
the Company to maintain a minimum net worth, a minimum fixed charge
coverage ratio, and a ratio of total debt to EBITDA below a specified
maximum.

     The carrying value of the Company's obligations under its credit
agreement approximates fair value due to the variable rate nature of the
obligations.

9.            SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     Common Stock

     The number of authorized shares of the Company's common stock is
125,000,000 shares with a par value of $0.01 per share. Holders of the
Company's common stock are entitled to one vote per share. At December 31,
2001, 6,446,849 shares of the Company's common stock were reserved for
grant pursuant to the Company's stock option plan.

     Preferred Stock

     The Board of Directors, without further shareholder authorization, is
authorized to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value
$0.01 per share in one or more series and to determine and fix the rights,
preferences and privileges of each series, including dividend rights and
preferences over dividends on the common stock and one or more series of
the preferred stock, conversion rights, voting rights (in addition to those
provided by law), redemption rights and the terms of any sinking fund
therefore, and rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up,
including preferences over the common stock and one or more series of the
preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance
of rights to purchase such shares, may have the effect of delaying,
deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company or an
unsolicited acquisition proposal.

10.           STOCK OPTION PLAN

     The Company's stock option plan provides certain key employees and
directors of the Company additional incentive to join and/or remain in the
service of the Company as well as to maintain and enhance the long-term
performance and profitability of the Company.





         At December 31, 2001, 2,120,508 options were available for grant.

         The following table details the weighted average remaining contractual
life of options outstanding at December 31, 2001 by range of exercise prices:












11.           BENEFIT PLANS

     Mettler-Toledo maintains a number of retirement and other
post-retirement employee benefit plans.

     Certain companies sponsor defined contribution plans. Benefits are
determined and funded annually based upon the terms of the plans. Amounts
recognized as cost under these plans amounted to $2.6 million for the years
ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, and $2.8 million for the year ended
December 31, 1999, respectively.







                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)


11.           BENEFIT PLANS - (CONTINUED)

     Certain companies sponsor defined benefit plans. Benefits are provided
to employees primarily based upon years of service and employees'
compensation for certain periods during the last years of employment. The
Company's U.S. operations also provide postretirement medical benefits to
their employees. Contributions for medical benefits are related to employee
years of service.

     The following table sets forth the change in benefit obligation, the
change in plan assets, the funded status and amounts recognized in the
consolidated financial statements for the Company's principal defined
benefit plans and postretirement plans at December 31, 2001 and 2000:








     Plan assets relate principally to the Company's U.S. and Swiss
companies and consist of equity investments, obligations of the U.S.
Treasury or other governmental agencies, and other interest-bearing
investments.

     At December 31, 2001, the fair value of plan assets and the total
projected benefit obligation for the Company's non-U.S. defined benefit
plans were $350.6 million and $302.7 million, respectively. Actuarial
assumptions for these plans ranged from 3.75% to 8.5% for the discount
rate, 2.0% to 6.5% for the compensation increase rate and 5.0% to 9.5% for
the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for the years ended
December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999.


     The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and net periodic
postretirement benefit cost were principally determined using discount
rates of 7.5% in 2001, 7.8% in 2000 and 7.2% in 1999 and health care cost
trend rates ranging from 7.0% to 10.0% in 2001, 2000 and 1999, decreasing
to 4.5% in 2006.












                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

12.           TAXES - (CONTINUED)

     The Company has recorded valuation allowances related to its deferred
income tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of
future benefits from such assets. The 2001 net change in the valuation
allowance is primarily attributable to the changes as enumerated above that
are related to the increased uncertainty of the realization potential
and/or increases in associated deferred tax assets.

     The potential decrease or increase of the valuation allowance in the
near term is dependent on the future realizability of the deferred tax
assets that are affected by the future profitability of operations in
various worldwide jurisdictions, but primarily in the United States. A
valuation allowance has been provided on the Company's net deferred tax
assets related to its United States operations because of the uncertainty
regarding their realizability due to the expectation that deductions from
future employee stock option exercises and related tax deductions will
exceed future taxable income. Deferred tax assets of $19.3 million at
December 31, 2001 pertain to net operating loss carryforwards resulting
from the exercise of certain employee stock options. When recognized, the
tax benefit of these losses will be recorded in shareholders' equity.

     The total valuation allowances relating to acquired businesses amount
to $14.3 million and $15.5 million at December 31, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. The reduction for the current year is primarily attributable
to the utilization of net operating losses and the expiration of the useful
life of various deferred tax assets. Future reductions of these valuation
allowances will continue to be credited to goodwill when realized.

     At December 31, 2001, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the
Company had net operating loss carryforwards of $62.6 million that expire
in various amounts through 2021 and other tax credits of $0.4 million that
have no expiration. The Company has various U.S. state net operating losses
and various foreign operating losses that expire in varying amounts through
2021.

     The Company is currently under examination in various taxing
jurisdictions in which it conducts business operations. While the Company
has not yet received any material assessments from these taxing
authorities, the Company believes that adequate amounts of taxes and
related interest and penalties have been provided for any adverse
adjustments as a result of these examinations and that the ultimate outcome
of these examinations will not result in an adverse material impact on the
Company's consolidated results of operations or financial position.







                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)

13.           OTHER CHARGES, NET

     Other charges, net consists primarily of foreign currency
transactions, interest income, charges related to the Company's
cost-reduction programs and gains on the sale of property, plant and
equipment.

     As part of its efforts to reduce costs, the Company recorded charges
of approximately $15.2 million, $1.4 million, and $8.0 million in 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively, associated primarily with headcount reductions
and manufacturing transfers in 2001, the close-down and consolidation of
operations in 2000, and the transfer of production lines from the Americas
to China and Europe, and the closure of facilities in 1999. The charges
comprised primarily severance and other related benefits and costs of
exiting facilities, including lease termination costs and the write-down of
impaired assets.

     The Company also incurred losses of $4.1 million during 1999 in
connection with the exit from its glass batching business based in Belgium.
This amount primarily comprised severance and other costs of exiting this
business. The Company completed its exit of this business by the end of
1999. These losses were offset by a gain of $3.1 million recorded in
connection with an asset sale.








                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)


14.           COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     Operating Leases

     The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under
operating leases. The future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable
operating leases are as follows at December 31, 2001:

              2002...................................          $ 15,624
              2003...................................            12,232
              2004...................................             9,602
              2005...................................             7,017
              2006...................................             5,516
              Thereafter.............................             8,730
                                                               --------
                Total................................          $ 58,721
                                                               --------

     Rent expense for operating leases amounted to $20.0 million, $21.2
million and $18.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

     Legal

     The Company is party to various legal proceedings, including certain
environmental matters, incidental to the normal course of business.
Management does not expect that any of such proceedings will have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations.

15.           SEGMENT REPORTING

     Operating segments are the individual reporting units within the
Company. These units are managed separately, and it is at this level where
the determination of resource allocation is made. The units have been
aggregated based on operating segments in geographic regions that have
similar economic characteristics and meet the aggregation criteria of SFAS
131. The Company has determined that there are five reportable segments:
Principal U.S. Operations, Principal Central European Operations, Swiss R&D
and Manufacturing Operations, Other Western European Operations and Other.
Principal U.S. Operations represent certain of the Company's marketing and
producing organizations located in the United States. Principal Central
European Operations primarily include the Company's German marketing and
producing organizations that primarily serve the German market and, to a
lesser extent, Europe. Swiss R&D and Manufacturing Operations consist of
the organizations located in Switzerland that are responsible for the
development, production and marketing of precision instruments, including
weighing, analytical and measurement technologies for use in a variety of
industrial and laboratory applications. Other Western European Operations
include the Company's market organizations in Western Europe that are not
included in Principal Central European Operations. The Company's market
organizations are geographically focused and are responsible for all
aspects of the Company's sales and service. Operating segments that exist
outside these reportable segments are included in Other.




                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)
                   (IN THOUSANDS UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED)


15.           SEGMENT REPORTING - (CONTINUED)

     The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as
those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. The
Company evaluates performance based on adjusted operating income (gross
profit less research and development and selling, general and
administrative expenses before amortization and non-recurring costs).
Intersegment sales and transfers are priced to reflect consideration of
market conditions and the regulations of the countries in which the
transferring entities are located. The following tables show the operations
of the Company's operating segments:




(a) Other includes reporting units in Asia, Eastern Europe, Latin America and
    segments from other countries that do not meet the aggregation criteria
    of SFAS 131.

(b) Eliminations and Corporate includes the elimination of intersegment
    transactions as well as certain corporate expenses, intercompany
    investments and certain goodwill, which are not included in the Company's
    operating segments.


















