
10-K405
10-K405



 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K
            (Mark One)
       [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
            For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                       OR

            TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
            For the transition period from ____ to _______________

                         Commission file number 1-12378

                                    NVR, INC.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              VIRGINIA                                            54-1394360
- -------------------------------------                ---------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                                 (IRS employer
incorporation or organization)                            identification number)
                                                          

                       7601 Lewinsville Road, Suite 300
                            McLean, Virginia 22102
                                (703) 761-2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including
            area code, of registrant's principal executive offices)

                            ____________________

            Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
         --------------------------------------------------------------

     Title of each class                                Name of each exchange on
     -------------------                               -------------------------
                                                          which registered
                                                          ----------------
Common stock, par value $0.01 per share                American Stock Exchange

 
      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None
      -----------------------------------------------------------      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No__
                                        ---      

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.[X]

As of February 24 1998 the aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of NVR, Inc. based on the closing price reported on the American
Stock Exchange was approximately $323 million.  As of February 24, 1998 there
were 11,515,562 total shares of common stock outstanding.

             APPLICABLE ONLY TO REGISTRANTS INVOLVED IN BANKRUPTCY
                  PROCEEDINGS DURING THE PRECEDING FIVE YEARS

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed all documents and
reports required to be filed by Section 12, 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 subsequent to the distribution of securities under a plan
confirmed by a court.    Yes  X  No____
                            -----      

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

PORTIONS OF THE PROXY STATEMENT OF NVR, INC. TO BE FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO REGULATION 14A OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 ON OR PRIOR TO APRIL 30, 1998 ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PART III
OF THIS REPORT.

                              Page 1 of 266 pages
                     The Exhibit Index begins on page 24.


 
                                     INDEX

 


 
                                     PART I
                                     ------
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS
- -------   --------


GENERAL

     NVR, Inc. ("NVR" or the "Company"), formed in 1980 as NVHomes, Inc.
("NVH"), is a holding company that currently operates, through its subsidiaries,
in two business segments:  1) the construction and marketing of homes and 2)
mortgage banking.  Unless the context otherwise requires, references to "NVR" or
the "Company" include its subsidiaries.

     NVR is one of the largest homebuilders in the United States and in the
Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland metropolitan areas, where NVR derived
an aggregate of approximately 66% and 72% of its 1997 and 1996 homebuilding
revenues, respectively.  NVR's homebuilding operations construct and sell
single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings in three
distinct product lines, through two divisions and one wholly owned subsidiary:
Ryan Homes, NVHomes and Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("Fox Ridge").  Ryan Homes builds
moderately priced homes in sixteen metropolitan areas located in Maryland,
Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, New
Jersey, Delaware and Tennessee, and markets its homes primarily to first-time
buyers.  NVHomes builds homes largely in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area,
and markets its homes primarily to move-up buyers.  Fox Ridge, acquired by NVR
on October 31, 1997, builds moderately priced homes in Nashville, Tennessee and
markets its homes primarily to first-time buyers (see Item 7,  Management's
Discussion and Analysis, and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for
further information related to the acquisition of Fox Ridge).  In 1997, the
average price of a unit settled by NVR was approximately $187,700.

     NVR obtains land for homebuilding by acquiring control over finished
building lots through option contracts with land developers that require
forfeitable deposits, thereby reducing the financial requirements and risks
associated with direct land ownership.  NVR generally seeks to maintain control
over an inventory of lots sufficient to provide for the next 18 to 24 months of
projected home sales, based upon projected sales volumes in the various
communities in which it operates.

     In addition to building and selling homes, NVR provides a number of
mortgage-related services through its national mortgage banking operations,
which operate in 15 states.  Although NVR's mortgage banking operations provide
financing to a substantial portion of NVR's homebuilding customers, NVR's
homebuilding customers accounted for only 43% of the aggregate dollar amount of
loans closed in 1997.  In 1997, NVR's mortgage banking business closed
approximately 12,300 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately
$1.49 billion.  NVR's mortgage banking business sells all of the mortgage loans
it closes into the secondary markets.  During 1997, NVR sold the remaining
portion of its core mortgage servicing portfolio, and intends to sell future
originated mortgage servicing rights on a flow basis in order to concentrate its
mortgage banking operations on the primary business of providing mortgage
financing to NVR and other homebuyers.  The total servicing portfolio balance at
December 31, 1997 has been reduced to approximately $224 million.  NVR's
mortgage banking business generates revenues primarily from origination fees,
gains on marketing of loans, title fees, and sales of servicing rights.

     Segment information for NVR's homebuilding and mortgage banking businesses
is included in note 3 to NVR's consolidated financial statements.


 
HOMEBUILDING

     PRODUCTS

     NVR offers single-family detached homes, townhomes, and condominium
buildings with many different basic home designs which have a variety of
elevations and numerous other options.  Homes built by NVR combine traditional
or colonial exterior designs with contemporary interior designs and amenities.
NVR's homes range from 985 to 5,410 square feet, with two to five bedrooms, and
are priced from approximately $70,000 to $640,000.

     MARKETS

     The following table summarizes settlements and contracts for sales of homes
for each of the last three years by region:



(1) Includes Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina,  South Carolina, Ohio, New
    Jersey, Tennessee and Delaware.

     CONSTRUCTION

     Construction work on NVR's homes is performed by independent subcontractors
under fixed-price contracts.  The work of subcontractors is performed under the
supervision of NVR employees who monitor quality control.  NVR uses many
independent subcontractors representing the building trades in its various
markets and is dependent neither on any single subcontractor nor on a small
number of subcontractors.

     SALES AND MARKETING

     NVR's preferred marketing method is for customers to visit a furnished
model home featuring many built-in options and a landscaped lot.  The garages of
these homes are usually converted into temporary sales centers where alternative
facades and floor plans are displayed and designs for other models are available
for review.  Sales representatives are compensated largely on a commission
basis.

     REGULATION

     NVR and its subcontractors must comply with various federal, state and
local zoning, building, pollution, environmental, advertising and consumer
credit statutes, rules and regulations, as well as other regulations and
requirements in connection with its construction and sales activities.  All of
these regulations have increased the cost required to market NVR's products.
Counties and cities in which NVR builds homes have at times declared moratoriums
on the issuance of building permits and imposed other restrictions in the areas
in which sewage treatment facilities and other public facilities do not reach
minimum standards.  To date, restrictive zoning laws and imposition of
moratoriums have not had a material adverse effect on NVR's construction
activities.  However, there is no assurance that such restrictions will not
adversely affect NVR in the future.


 
     COMPETITION AND MARKET FACTORS

     The housing industry is highly competitive.   NVR competes with numerous
homebuilders of varying size, ranging from local to national in scope, some of
whom have greater financial resources than NVR.  The Company also faces
competition from the home resale market.  NVR's homebuilding operations compete
primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and
reputation.  NVR's homebuilding operations historically have been one of the
market leaders in each of the markets where NVR operates.

     The housing industry is cyclical and is affected by consumer confidence
levels, prevailing economic conditions and interest rates.  In addition, a
variety of other factors affect the housing industry and the demand for new
homes, including the availability and increases in the cost of land, labor and
materials, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and the
availability of mortgage finance programs.

     NVR is dependent upon building material suppliers for a continuous flow of
raw materials.  Whenever possible, NVR utilizes standard products available from
multiple sources.  Such raw materials have been generally available in adequate
supply.

MORTGAGE BANKING

     NVR provides a number of mortgage related services to its homebuilding
customers and to other customers through its mortgage banking operations.  The
mortgage banking operations of NVR also include separate companies which broker
title insurance and perform title searches in connection with mortgage loan
closings for which they receive commissions and fees.

     NVR's mortgage banking business sells all of the mortgage loans it closes
to investors in the secondary markets, rather than holding them for investment.
NVR's wholly-owned subsidiary, NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. ("NVR Finance") is an
approved seller/servicer for FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC,  VA and FHA mortgage loans.  The
size of its servicing portfolio has decreased to approximately $224 million in
principal amount of loans being serviced at the end of 1997, from $579 million
at the end of 1996, due to the sale of its core mortgage servicing portfolio
during 1997.  NVR's mortgage banking operations intend to sell future originated
mortgage servicing rights on a flow basis in order to concentrate its mortgage
banking operations on the primary business of providing mortgage financing to
NVR and other homebuyers.

     MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES

     NVR's limited purpose subsidiary ("Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary")
was organized to facilitate the financing of long-term mortgage loans through
the sale of bonds collateralized by mortgage-backed securities, including
certificates guaranteed as to the full and timely payment of principal and
interest by FNMA, and certificates guaranteed as to payment of principal and
interest by GNMA and FHLMC.  The issuance of mortgage-collateralized bonds has
in the past facilitated NVR's ability, through its mortgage-banking
subsidiaries, to provide home mortgage financing to its customers.  There have
been no bonds issued since 1988.

     COMPETITION AND MARKET FACTORS

     NVR's mortgage banking operations operate in 15 states and have 23 offices.
Their main competition comes from national, regional, and local mortgage
bankers, thrifts and banks in each of these markets.  NVR's mortgage banking
operations compete primarily on the basis of customer service, variety 


 
of products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services and
relative financing availability and costs.

     REGULATION

     NVR Finance, as an approved seller/servicer of FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, FHA and
VA, is subject to the rules, regulations and guidelines of, and examinations by,
those agencies, which restrict certain activities of NVR Finance.  NVR Finance
is currently eligible and expects to remain eligible to participate in such
programs;  however, any significant impairment of its eligibility could have a
material adverse impact on its operations.  In addition, NVR Finance is subject
to regulation at the state and federal level with respect to specific
origination, selling and servicing practices.

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 1997, NVR employed 2,013 full-time persons, of whom 630
were officers and management personnel, 145 were technical and construction
personnel, 363 were sales personnel, 383 were administrative personnel and 492
were engaged in various other service and labor activities.  None of the
Company's employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and the
Company has never experienced a work stoppage.  Management believes that its
employee relations are good.


ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
- -------   ----------

     NVR's executive offices are located in McLean, Virginia, where NVR
currently leases office space for a nine and one-half year term expiring in
March 2005.

     NVR leases two buildings in Robinson Township, a suburb of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania.  The buildings are leased for a term of twenty-five years expiring
in 2014 and NVR has options to purchase the buildings at various times
throughout the lease term.  NVR is obligated to offer to purchase the office
buildings upon termination of the lease at a price equal to the greater of the
fair market value of the buildings on the relevant date under the lease or $11.7
million, the original acquisition cost of the premises, plus certain additional
amounts.

     NVR's manufacturing facilities are located in Thurmont, Maryland;
Farmington, New York; Clover, South Carolina and Darlington, Pennsylvania.  NVR
has leased the Thurmont and Farmington manufacturing facilities for a term
expiring in 2014 with various options for extension of the leases and for the
purchase of the facilities.  The Clover and Darlington leases expire in 2002 and
2005, respectively, and also contain various options for extensions of the
leases and for the purchase of the facilities.

     NVR also leases office space in 66 locations in 16 states for field
offices, mortgage banking and title services branches and certain model homes
under leases expiring at various times through 2007.  NVR anticipates that, upon
expiration of existing leases, it will be able to renew them or obtain
comparable facilities on acceptable terms.


 
ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- -------   ------------------

     NVR and its subsidiaries are involved in litigation arising from the normal
course of business.  In the opinion of management, this litigation will not have
any material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations
of NVR.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
- -------   ----------------------------------------------------

     NONE

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The table below sets forth pertinent information with respect to the
executive officers of NVR.



     Dwight C. Schar has been chairman of the board, president and chief
executive officer of NVR since September 30, 1993.

     William J. Inman has been president of NVR Financial Services, Inc.
("NVRFS") since September 30, 1993 and NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. since January
1992.

     James M. Sack has been vice president, secretary and general counsel of NVR
since September 30, 1993.  Mr. Sack is currently principal of the law firm Sack
& Associates, P.C. in McLean, Virginia.

     Paul C. Saville has been senior vice president finance, chief financial
officer and treasurer of NVR since September 30, 1993.

     Dennis M. Seremet has been vice president and controller of NVR since April
1, 1995.  Mr. Seremet also currently serves as vice president finance of NVR
Homes, Inc., to which he was appointed on September 30, 1993.


 
                                    PART II
                                    -------

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS.
- -------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------

     NVR's shares of common stock are listed and principally traded on the
American Stock Exchange ("AMEX").  The following table sets forth for the
periods indicated the high and low closing sales prices per share for the years
1997 and 1996 as reported by the AMEX.



     As of the close of business on February 24, 1998, there were 1,128
shareholders of record.

     NVR has not paid any cash dividends on its shares of common stock during
the years 1997 or 1996.  NVR's bank indebtedness and the indenture governing
NVR's 11% Senior Notes due 2003 contain restrictions on the ability of NVR to
pay dividends on its common stock.


 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (dollars in thousands, except per Share/Unit
- -------  -----------------------                                             
amounts)

     The following tables set forth selected consolidated financial information
for NVR.  The selected statement of operations and balance sheet data have been
extracted from NVR's consolidated financial statements for each of the periods
presented.  The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with, and
is qualified in its entirety by, the consolidated financial statements and
related notes included elsewhere in this report.

 



(1)  Under NVR L.P.'s (the "Predecessor") plan of reorganization (the "Plan")
     that was completed on September 30, 1993 (the "Effective Date"), the
     Predecessor, which was a master limited partnership, was reorganized as a
     corporation (the "Incorporation Transaction").  The Incorporation
     Transaction included the merger of Ryan Homes, Inc. ("RHI") into NVR, Inc.,
     (the "Successor") a newly formed Virginia corporation.  NVR, Inc. then
     succeeded to all of the assets and liabilities of the Predecessor (the
     "Merger") on the Effective Date.  In connection with the Plan and following
     a series of other consolidation and merger transactions, NVR, Inc. conducts
     substantially all of its homebuilding operations in NVR Homes, Inc.
     ("Homes"), NVR's wholly-owned homebuilding company, and its mortgage
     banking operations in NVR Financial Services, Inc. ("NVRFS"), NVR's wholly
     owned mortgage banking holding company.  Unless the context otherwise
     requires, "NVR" or the "Company" refers to NVR L.P. prior to the Merger and
     to NVR, Inc. after the Merger.

(2)  Effective September 30, 1993, NVR Savings Bank, F.S.B. ("NVRSB") is
     presented on a discontinued operations basis.  Statement of operations and
     balance sheet data for prior periods have been 


 
     reclassified to reflect this change. In March, 1994 NVR completed the sale
     of the assets and liabilities of NVRSB to a financial institution.

(3)  Gross profits in the fourth quarter of 1993 include a non-cash $9,000
inventory valuation adjustment. This adjustment negatively impacted gross
profits and was required by Statement of Position 90-7, "Financial Reporting by
Entities in Reorganization Under the Bankruptcy Code" ("SOP 90-7") issued by the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants as part of "fresh-start"
accounting and reporting. Effective October 1, 1993, NVR discontinued the
capitalization of interest costs into inventory since the effect of directly
charging such costs to expense as compared to capitalization is not expected to
have a material impact on NVR's results of operations. Capitalized interest
costs relieved to cost of sales for periods prior to October 1, 1993 have not
been reclassified to interest expense.

(4)  Effective January 1, 1995, NVR adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 122, Accounting For Mortgage Servicing Rights. SFAS No.
122, as superseded by SFAS No. 125, Accounting for the Transfers and Servicing
of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, requires that a mortgage
banking enterprise that acquires mortgage servicing rights through either the
purchase or origination of mortgage loans recognize those rights as separate
assets by allocating the total cost of the mortgage loans to the mortgage
servicing rights and the loans (without the mortgage servicing rights) based on
their relative fair value. Retroactive application of SFAS No. 122 to periods
prior to the fiscal year of adoption is prohibited, and thus, mortgage banking
fees for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 are not directly
comparable to prior periods. For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and
1995, application of SFAS No. 122 increased (decreased) mortgage banking fees by
$(928), $906 and $1,717, respectively.

(5)  In connection with the effectiveness of the Plan, NVR was reorganized as a
corporation and 17,057,326 common shares were issued and outstanding on
September 30, 1993. For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
and for the three months ended December 31, 1993, income (loss) from continuing
operations per share was computed based on 13,244,677, 15,137,009, 15,405,263,
17,097,172 and 17,690,553 shares, respectively, which represents the weighted
average number of shares and share equivalents outstanding. The weighted average
number of Units outstanding and the weighted average number of Unit equivalents,
which include option rights and warrants, were approximately 30,396,000 for the
nine months ended September 30, 1993. The weighted average number of shares and
share equivalents and the weighted average number of units and unit equivalents
were calculated based upon the requirements of SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share,
for all periods presented and represent the shares/units and share/unit
equivalents used to calculate diluted earnings per share before discontinued
operations and extraordinary gains. Prior year earnings per share data has been
restated to conform with the requirements of SFAS No. 128.

(6)  Effective in the fourth quarter of 1996, the Limited Purpose Financing
Subsidiaries are presented on a net basis. Accordingly, balance sheet data for
prior periods have been reclassified to reflect this change. See note 1 to the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.

(7)  On September 30, 1993, the preferred partnership interests and the Units,
including the Units issued in connection with NVR's subordinated debt-for-equity
exchange, were exchanged for 17,057,326 common shares with an aggregate fair
value on the date of the exchange of $130,000. No cash dividends for common
stock were declared for any of the periods presented.


 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
- -------  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
         OF OPERATIONS
         -------------
         (dollars in thousands except per share data)
         --------------------------------------------

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Some of the statements in this Form 10-K, as well as statements made by the
Company in periodic press releases, constitute "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties
and other factors that may cause the actual results or performance of the
Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements.  Such risk
factors include, but are not limited to, general economic and business
conditions, interest rate changes, competition, the availability and cost of
land and other raw materials used by the Company in its homebuilding operations,
shortages of labor, weather related slow downs, building moratoria, governmental
regulation, the ability of the Company to integrate any acquired business,
certain conditions in financial markets, technological problems encountered with
the Year 2000 Issue (defined below) and other factors over which the Company has
little or no control.

NVR, INC. CONSOLIDATED
- ----------------------

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995

     NVR, Inc. ("NVR" or the "Company") is a holding company that operates in
two business segments:  homebuilding and mortgage banking.  The results of these
two segments are discussed separately below. Holding company general and
administrative expenses are fully allocated to the homebuilding and mortgage
banking segments in the information presented below.

HOMEBUILDING SEGMENT

     Homebuilding revenues for 1997 increased 10.3% to $1,154,022 from
$1,045,930 in 1996.  The increase in revenues was primarily due to a 7.2%
increase in the number of homes settled from 5,695 in 1996 to 6,107 in 1997 and
to a 2.7% increase in the average settlement price from $182.7 in 1996 to $187.7
in 1997.  New orders for 1997 increased 17.5% to 6,686 compared with 5,690 in
1996.  The increase in new orders is attributed to a more favorable interest
rate environment in the current year compared to the prior year, and to sales
associated with the Company's expansion markets.  Homebuilding revenues for 1996
increased 20.3% to $1,045,930 from $869,119 in 1995.  The increase in revenues
was primarily due to a 17.3% increase in the number of homes settled from 4,857
in 1995 to 5,695 in 1996 and to a 2.8% increase in the average settlement price
from $177.7 in 1995 to $182.7 in 1996.  New orders for 1996 increased 1.5% to
5,690 compared with 5,606 in 1995.

     Gross profit margins increased to 13.7% in 1997 compared to 13.4% in 1996.
The increase in gross profit margins from that experienced in 1996 was primarily
attributable to more favorable market conditions in certain of the Company's
markets, fewer additional weather-related costs incurred in the construction of
homes as a result of mild winter weather conditions in NVR's principal markets
in the first quarter of 1997 as compared to the first quarter of 1996, and
continued emphasis on controlling construction costs.  Gross profit margins
decreased to 13.4% in 1996 compared to 13.6% in 1995.  The decrease in gross
profit margins in 1996 from the 1995 year was primarily attributable to more
competitive market conditions in certain of the Company's markets and, to a
lesser extent, higher lumber costs.

     SG&A expenses for 1997 increased $16,047 to $87,231 from $71,184 in 1996,
and as a percentage of revenues increased to 7.8% in 1997 from 6.8% in 1996.
The dollar increase is partially due to increased costs that correspond to the
aforementioned increase in revenues, and costs incurred to grow the Company's
expansion markets to full operational levels.  Further, the higher SG&A is also
attributable to an increase of approximately $6,000 for a non-cash expense
associated with an equity based 


 
management incentive plan, and to a non-recurring $1,600 incentive payment
earned by the Company's Board of Directors pursuant to the terms of the
Company's Plan of Reorganization that became effective on September 30, 1993.
SG&A expenses for 1996 increased $7,984 to $71,184 from $63,200 in 1995, but as
a percentage of revenues decreased from 7.3% in 1995 to 6.8% in 1996. The dollar
increase in SG&A expenses in 1996 was primarily due to increased costs that
correspond to the aforementioned increase in revenues.

     Backlog units and dollars were 3,195 and $623,705, respectively, at
December 31, 1997 compared to backlog units of 2,466 and dollars of $453,211 at
December 31, 1996.  The increase in backlog dollars and units was primarily due
to a 33.5% increase in new orders for the six months ended December 31, 1997 as
compared to the six months ended December 31, 1996.  Backlog units and dollars
were 2,466 and $453,211, respectively, at December 31, 1996 compared to backlog
units of 2,471 and dollars of $442,268 at December 31, 1995.  The increase in
backlog dollars was primarily due to a 2.6% increase in the average sales prices
during 1996 as compared to the same 1995 period.

     The Company believes that earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization ("EBITDA") provides a meaningful comparison of operating
performance of the homebuilding segment because it excludes the amortization of
certain intangible assets and other non-cash items.  Although the Company
believes the calculation is helpful in understanding the performance of the
homebuilding segment, EBITDA should not be considered a substitute for net
income or cash flow as indicators of the Company's financial performance or its
ability to generate liquidity.



     Homebuilding EBITDA in 1997 was 11.8% higher than in 1996, and as a
percentage of revenues increased from 7.2% in 1996 to 7.3% in 1997.
Homebuilding EBITDA in 1996 was 24.0% higher than in 1995, and as a percentage
of revenues increased from 7.0% to 7.2%.

MORTGAGE BANKING SEGMENT

     The mortgage banking segment generated operating income of $4,767 for the
year ended December 31, 1997 compared to operating income of $2,583 during the
year ended December 31, 1996 and operating income of $1,162 during the year
ended December 31, 1995.  Mortgage loan closings were $1,485,763, $1,243,945 and
$1,092,676 during the respective years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.
The increases in operating income and mortgage loan closings were achieved
despite continued strong price competition.

     Mortgage banking fees increased $1,917 when comparing 1997 and 1996 and
decreased $2,268 when comparing 1996 and 1995.  A summary of mortgage banking
fees is noted below:




 
     Effective during the second quarter of 1997, the mortgage banking
operations sold the remaining portion of its core mortgage servicing portfolio.
The sale of the core mortgage servicing portfolio and the ongoing sale of
servicing rights on a flow basis are the result of the concentration of the
mortgage banking operations on the primary business of providing mortgage
financing and related services to NVR and other homebuyers.

     Mortgage banking fees in 1997 were higher in comparison to 1996, primarily
as a result of higher gain on sale of loans.  The higher gain on sale of loans
can be attributed to increased loan closings and higher servicing values
realized through the sale of mortgage servicing rights.  These gains were
partially offset by the lower servicing fee revenues resulting from the
reduction in the mortgage servicing portfolio.  Operating income was higher in
1997 in comparison to 1996 as a result of the increase in mortgage loan closings
noted above and other income from a joint venture which effectively began
operations during 1997.

     Mortgage banking fees in 1996 were lower in comparison to 1995, which was
primarily attributable to the loss on sale of servicing rights and lower
servicing fee revenues resulting from the reduction in the mortgage loan
servicing portfolio.  These lower revenues were partially offset by the improved
marketing results on the sale of mortgage loans and higher servicing values
realized through the sale of mortgage servicing rights recognized under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 122, Accounting for
Mortgage Servicing Rights.  Operating income was higher in 1996 in comparison to
1995 as a result of the cost cutting measures enacted by the mortgage banking
group during 1996 and the increase in mortgage loan closings noted above.

SEASONALITY

     The results of NVR's homebuilding operations generally reflect the
seasonality of the housing market in the Middle Atlantic region of the United
States.  NVR historically has entered into more sales contracts in this region
during the first and second quarters, and the highest numbers of settlements
historically have occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters.  Because
NVR's mortgage banking operations generate part of their business from NVR's
homebuilding operations and from other homebuilders affected by seasonality, to
the extent that homebuilding is affected by seasonality, mortgage banking
operations may also be affected.  The existence of mortgage banking and title
services offices outside of the Middle Atlantic region and the existence of
third-party business tend to reduce the effects of seasonality on the results of
NVR's operations.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income, and SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related information.  Both statements are
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 130
establishes standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and its
components in a full set of general purpose financial statements.  Based on the
nature of the Company's operations, Management does not expect that, upon
adoption of SFAS No. 130, future reported comprehensive income will differ
materially from future reported net income.  SFAS No. 131 establishes standards
for the way that public enterprises report information about operating segments
in annual and interim financial statements.  Adoption of SFAS No. 131 will have
no impact on the Company's results of operations or financial condition.

YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The Year 2000 Issue is the risk that computer programs using two-digit date
fields will fail to properly recognize the year 2000, with the result being
business interruptions due to computer system failures by the Company's software
or hardware or that of government entities, service providers and 


 
vendors. In response to the Year 2000 Issue, the Company has developed a plan to
assess the Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues, and is currently in the
process of performing its review. Based on a preliminary assessment, Management
does not believe that the Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues will have a
material effect on its financial position or results of operations.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     NVR's homebuilding segment generally provides for its working capital cash
requirements using cash generated from operations and a credit facility.  The
homebuilding segment has available a $60,000 unsecured Working Capital Revolving
Credit Agreement that expires in May 2000 to fund its working capital needs,
under which no amounts were outstanding at December 31, 1997.

     NVR's mortgage banking segment provides for its mortgage origination and
other operating activities using cash generated from operations as well as
various short-term credit facilities.  NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. ("NVR
Finance") has available a $125,000 mortgage warehouse facility to fund its
mortgage origination activities, under which $77,765 was outstanding at December
31, 1997.  NVR Finance from time to time enters into various gestation and
repurchase agreements.  NVR Finance currently has available an aggregate of
$145,000 of borrowing capacity in such uncommitted and committed facilities.
There was an aggregate of $30,628 outstanding under such gestation and
repurchase agreements at December 31, 1997.

     On January 20, 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration statement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of up to $400 million of
the Company's debt securities.  The shelf registration statement was declared
effective on February 28, 1998 and provides that securities may be offered from
time to time in one or more series, and in the form of senior or subordinated
debt.   To date, no debt securities have been issued under the shelf
registration statement.

     Various debt agreements limit the ability of NVR's subsidiaries to transfer
funds to NVR in the form of dividends, loans or advances. NVR's subsidiaries had
net assets (after intercompany eliminations) of $261,806 as of December 31,
1997, that were so restricted.

     As shown in NVR's consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended
December 31, 1997, NVR's operating activities used cash of $15,025 for this
period.  The cash was used primarily to increase homebuilding inventory due to a
general increase in the Company's business activity.  Further, cash was also
used due to an increase in mortgage loans held for sale which was related to a
19% increase in mortgage loan closings during 1997 compared to fiscal year
1996's loan closing volume.

     Net cash provided by investing activities was $19,165 for the year ended
December 31, 1997.  The primary sources of cash were principal payments on and
proceeds from the sale of mortgage-backed securities, which are primarily used
for the redemption of bonds as discussed below, and proceeds from the sale of
mortgage servicing rights.  The primary use of cash for investment activities
involved the Company's acquisition of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. on October 31, 1997.
NVR Fox Ridge, Inc., ("Fox Ridge"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR Homes,
Inc., itself wholly owned by NVR, purchased substantially all of the assets and
assumed certain liabilities of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("FRH"), a home builder in
Nashville, Tennessee. In addition to Fox Ridge assuming approximately $11,000 of
FRH's construction debt plus certain other liabilities, Fox Ridge paid FRH
$14,250 in cash at settlement on October 31, 1997, and issued a note payable for
the remaining $4,750 purchase price. The note bears interest at 200 basis points
above the federal funds target rate, and will be paid in three annual
installments on October 31, 1998, 1999, and 2000, including accrued interest.

     Net cash used for financing activities was $33,195 for the year ended
December 31, 1997.  Cash was primarily used for NVR's purchase of approximately
2.8 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of
$45,545 during the year ended December 31, 1997.  The Company may, from 


 
time to time, repurchase additional shares of its common stock, pursuant to
repurchase authorizations by the Board of Directors and subject to the
restrictions contained within the Company's debt agreements. NVR had net
borrowings under the mortgage banking credit lines of approximately $40,930 used
to finance mortgage loan inventory. The Company also repaid the $11,000
construction loan assumed in the acquisition of Fox Ridge noted above. Cash was
also used for the redemption of collateralized bonds using cash provided by the
related mortgage backed securities as discussed above.

     The Company believes that internally generated cash and borrowings
available under credit facilities will be sufficient to satisfy near and long
term cash requirements for working capital and debt service in both its
homebuilding and mortgage banking operations.

NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
- ----------------------------

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995


     NVR Financial Services, Inc. ("NVRFS" or the "Company") is a wholly owned
subsidiary of NVR, Inc. ("NVR"), and through its subsidiaries, conducts all of
NVR's mortgage banking operations.

     NVRFS generated operating income of $3,930 for the year ended December 31,
1997 compared to operating income of $1,785 during the year ended December 31,
1996 and operating income of $978 during the year ended December 31, 1995.
Mortgage loan closings were $1,485,763, $1,243,945 and $1,092,676 during the
respective years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.  The increases in
operating income and mortgage loan closings were achieved despite continued
strong price competition.

     Mortgage banking fees increased $1,917 when comparing 1997 and 1996 and
decreased $2,268 when comparing 1996 and 1995.  A summary of mortgage banking
fees is noted below:



     Effective during the second quarter of 1997, NVRFS sold the remaining
portion of its core mortgage servicing portfolio.  The sale of the core mortgage
servicing portfolio and the ongoing sale of servicing rights on a flow basis are
the result of the concentration of the mortgage banking operations on the
primary business of providing mortgage financing and related services to NVR and
other homebuyers.

     Mortgage banking fees in 1997 were higher in comparison to 1996, primarily
as a result of higher gain on sale of loans.  The higher gain on sale of loans
can be attributed to increased loan closings and higher servicing values
realized through the sale of mortgage servicing rights.  These gains were
partially offset by the lower servicing fee revenues resulting from the
reduction in the mortgage servicing portfolio.  Operating income was higher in
1997 in comparison to 1996 as a result of the increase in mortgage loan closings
noted above and other income from a joint venture which effectively began
operations during 1997.

     Mortgage banking fees in 1996 were lower in comparison to 1995, which was
primarily attributable to the loss on sale of servicing rights and lower
servicing fee revenues resulting from the reduction in the mortgage loan
servicing portfolio.  These lower revenues were partially offset by the improved
marketing results on the sale of mortgage loans and higher servicing values
realized through the sale of mortgage servicing rights recognized under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") 


 
No. 122, Accounting for Mortgage Servicing Rights. Operating income was higher
in 1996 in comparison to 1995 as a result of the cost cutting measures enacted
by the mortgage banking group during 1996 and the increase in mortgage loan
closings noted above.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income,
and SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
information.  Both statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 130 establishes standards for reporting and display
of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general purpose
financial statements.  Based on the nature of the Company's operations,
Management does not expect that, upon adoption of SFAS No. 130, future reported
comprehensive income will differ materially from future reported net income.
SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the way that public enterprises report
information about operating segments in annual and interim financial statements.
Adoption of SFAS No. 131 will have no impact on the Company's results of
operations or financial condition.

SEASONALITY

     Because NVRFS's mortgage banking operations generate part of their business
from NVR's homebuilding operations and from other homebuilders affected by
seasonality, to the extent that homebuilding is affected by seasonality,
mortgage banking operations may also be affected.  The existence of mortgage
banking and title services offices outside of the Middle Atlantic region and the
existence of third-party business tend to reduce the effects of seasonality on
the results of NVRFS's operations.

YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The Year 2000 Issue is the risk that computer programs using two-digit date
fields will fail to properly recognize the year 2000, with the result being
business interruptions due to computer system failures by the Company's software
or hardware or that of government entities, service providers and vendors.  In
response to the Year 2000 Issue, the Company has developed a plan to assess the
Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues, and is currently in the process of
performing its review.  Based on a preliminary assessment, Management does not
believe that the Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues will have a material
effect on its financial position or results of operations.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     NVRFS provides for its mortgage origination and other operating activities
using cash generated from operations as well as various short-term credit
facilities.  NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. ("NVR Finance") has available a $125,000
mortgage warehouse facility to fund its mortgage origination activities, under
which $77,765 was outstanding at December 31, 1997.  NVR Finance from time to
time enters into various gestation and repurchase agreements.  NVR Finance
currently has available an aggregate of $145,000 of borrowing capacity in such
uncommitted and committed facilities.  There was an aggregate of $30,628
outstanding under such gestation and repurchase agreements at December 31, 1997.

     Various debt agreements limit the ability of NVRFS to transfer funds to NVR
in the form of dividends, loans or advances. NVRFS had net assets (after
intercompany eliminations) of $8,750 as of December 31, 1997, that were so
restricted.

     As shown in NVRFS's consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended
December 31, 1997, operating activities used cash of $47,104 for this period.
The cash was used primarily to increase mortgage loans held for sale which was
related to a 19% increase in mortgage loan closings during 1997 compared to
fiscal year 1996's loan closing volume.


 
     Net cash provided by investing activities was $34,373 for the year ended
December 31, 1997.  The primary sources of cash were principal payments on and
proceeds from the sale of mortgage-backed securities, which are primarily used
for the redemption of bonds as discussed below, and proceeds from the sale of
mortgage servicing rights.

     Net cash provided by financing activities was $13,525 for the year ended
December 31, 1997.  Cash was primarily used for the redemption of collateralized
bonds using cash provided by the related mortgage backed securities as discussed
above.  NVRFS also issued dividends of $8,329 to NVR during the year ended
December 31, 1997.  Offsetting the cash outflows were net borrowings under the
mortgage banking credit lines of approximately $40,930 used to finance mortgage
loan inventory.

     The Company believes that internally generated cash and borrowings
available under credit facilities will be sufficient to satisfy near and long
term cash requirements for working capital and debt service.

NVR HOMES, INC. CONSOLIDATED
- ----------------------------

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995

     NVR Homes, Inc. ("Homes") is a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR, Inc.
("NVR"), and conducts all of NVR's homebuilding operations.

     Homes' revenues for 1997 increased 10.3% to $1,154,022 from $1,045,930 in
1996.  The increase in revenues was primarily due to a 7.2% increase in the
number of homes settled from 5,695 in 1996 to 6,107 in 1997 and to a 2.7%
increase in the average settlement price from $182.7 in 1996 to $187.7 in 1997.
New orders for 1997 increased 17.5% to 6,686 compared with 5,690 in 1996.  The
increase in new orders is attributed to a more favorable interest rate
environment in the current year compared to the prior year, and to sales
associated with the Company's expansion markets.  Homebuilding revenues for 1996
increased 20.3% to $1,045,930 from $869,119 in 1995.  The increase in revenues
was primarily due to a 17.3% increase in the number of homes settled from 4,857
in 1995 to 5,695 in 1996 and to a 2.8% increase in the average settlement price
from $177.7 in 1995 to $182.7 in 1996.  New orders for 1996 increased 1.5% to
5,690 compared with 5,606 in 1995.

     Gross profit margins increased to 13.7% in 1997 compared to 13.4% in 1996.
The increase in gross profit margins from that experienced in 1996 was primarily
attributable to more favorable market conditions in certain of the Company's
markets, fewer additional weather-related costs incurred in the construction of
homes as a result of mild winter weather conditions in Homes' principal markets
in the first quarter of 1997 as compared to the first quarter of 1996, and
continued emphasis on controlling construction costs.  Gross profit margins
decreased to 13.4% in 1996 compared to 13.6% in 1995.  The decrease in gross
profit margins in 1996 from the 1995 year was primarily attributable to more
competitive market conditions in certain of the Company's markets and, to a
lesser extent, higher lumber costs.

     SG&A expenses for 1997 increased $33,141 to $108,236 from $75,095 in 1996,
and as a percentage of revenues increased to 9.4% in 1997 from 7.2% in 1996.
The dollar increase is partially due to increased costs that correspond to the
aforementioned increase in revenues, and costs incurred to grow the Company's
expansion markets to full operational levels.  Further, beginning on October 1,
1996, Homes incurs royalty expenses for use of the Ryan Homes and NVHomes
tradenames based on a percentage of settlement revenues.   The tradenames are
owned by RVN, Inc., a subsidiary of NVR.  During the years ended December 31,
1997 and 1996, Homes incurred royalty expenses totaling $21,687 and $4,711,
respectively.   SG&A expenses for 1996 increased $13,204 to $75,095 from $61,891
in 1995, and as a percentage of revenues increased from 7.1% in 1995 to 7.2% in
1996.  The dollar increase in SG&A expenses in 1996 was primarily due to
increased costs that correspond to the aforementioned increase in revenues, and
to the royalty expenses described above.


 
     Backlog units and dollars were 3,195 and $623,705, respectively, at
December 31, 1997 compared to backlog units of 2,466 and dollars of $453,211 at
December 31, 1996.  The increase in backlog dollars and units was primarily due
to a 33.5% increase in new orders for the six months ended December 31, 1997 as
compared to the six months ended December 31, 1996.  Backlog units and dollars
were 2,466 and $453,211, respectively, at December 31, 1996 compared to backlog
units of 2,471 and dollars of $442,268 at December 31, 1995.  The increase in
backlog dollars was primarily due to a 2.6% increase in the average sales prices
during 1996 as compared to the same 1995 period.

SEASONALITY

     The results of the Company's operations generally reflect the seasonality
of the housing market in the Middle Atlantic region of the United States.  NVR
historically has entered into more sales contracts in this region during the
first and second quarters, and the highest numbers of settlements historically
have occurred in the second, third and fourth quarters.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income,
and SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
information.  Both statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 130 establishes standards for reporting and display
of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general purpose
financial statements.  Based on the nature of the Company's operations,
Management does not expect that, upon adoption of SFAS No. 130, future reported
comprehensive income will differ materially from future reported net income.
SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the way that public enterprises report
information about operating segments in annual and interim financial statements.
Adoption of SFAS No. 131 will have no impact on the Company's results of
operations or financial condition.

YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The Year 2000 Issue is the risk that computer programs using two-digit date
fields will fail to properly recognize the year 2000, with the result being
business interruptions due to computer system failures by the Company's software
or hardware or that of government entities, service providers and vendors.  In
response to the Year 2000 Issue, the Company has developed a plan to assess the
Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues, and is currently in the process of
performing its review.  Based on a preliminary assessment, Management does not
believe that the Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues will have a material
effect on its financial position or results of operations.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Homes' generally provides for its working capital cash requirements using
cash generated from operations and a credit facility.  The Company has available
a $60,000 unsecured Working Capital Revolving Credit Agreement that expires in
May 2000 to fund its working capital needs, under which no amounts were
outstanding at December 31, 1997.

     Various debt agreements limit the ability of Homes to transfer funds to NVR
in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Homes had net assets (after
intercompany eliminations) of $253,056 as of December 31, 1997, that were so
restricted.

     As shown in Homes' consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended
December 31, 1997, operating activities provided cash of $3,350 for this period.
Operating cash generated during the period was used to increase homebuilding
inventory due to a general increase in the Company's business activity.


 
     Net cash used by investing activities was $15,087 for the year ended
December 31, 1997.  The primary use of cash for investment activities involved
the Company's acquisition of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. on October 31, 1997.   NVR
Fox Ridge, Inc., ("Fox Ridge"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Homes, purchased
substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Fox Ridge
Homes, Inc. ("FRH"), a home builder in Nashville, Tennessee.  In addition to Fox
Ridge assuming approximately $11,000 of FRH's construction debt plus certain
other liabilities, Fox Ridge paid FRH $14,250 in cash at settlement on October
31, 1997, and issued a note payable for the remaining $4,750 purchase price.
The note bears interest at 200 basis points above the federal funds target rate,
and will be paid in three annual installments on October 31, 1998, 1999, and
2000, including accrued interest.

     Net cash used for financing activities was $18,061 for the year ended
December 31, 1997.  Cash was primarily used to repay the $11,000 construction
loan assumed in the acquisition of Fox Ridge noted above.  Cash was also used to
repay non-interest bearing intercompany advances from NVR.

     The Company believes that internally generated cash and borrowings
available under credit facilities will be sufficient to satisfy near and long
term cash requirements for working capital and debt service in its homebuilding
operations.

RVN, INC.
- ---------

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 AND THE THREE MONTHS
ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

     On October 1, 1996, NVR, Inc. ("NVR") capitalized RVN, Inc. ("RVN"), a
Delaware holding company, with $65 in cash and the Ryan Homes and NVHomes
tradenames (the "Tradenames").  Under a royalty agreement entered into on
October 1, 1996 with NVR Homes, Inc. ("Homes"), NVR's homebuilding subsidiary,
RVN earns royalty fees based on a percentage of settlement revenue for allowing
Homes to use the Tradenames to market homes.  RVN earns 100% of its revenue from
Homes.

     RVN earned royalty revenues of $21,687 for the year ended December 31, 1997
compared to $4,711 for the three months ended December 31, 1996.  The increase
was attributable to earning royalty revenue on a full year of Homes' settlement
revenues as compared to only three months of operation in the 1996 calendar
year.  RVN has no significant other income or general and administrative
expenses.

SEASONALITY AND CERTAIN CONCENTRATIONS

     RVN earns 100% of its revenue from Homes.   As Homes' revenues are affected
by seasonality, RVN is similarly affected.  Homes' homebuilding operations
generally reflect the seasonality of the housing market in the Middle Atlantic
region of the United States.  Homes historically has entered into more sales
contracts in this region during the first and second quarters, and the highest
numbers of settlements historically have occurred in the second, third and
fourth quarters.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income,
and SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
information.  Both statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 130 establishes standards for reporting and display
of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general purpose
financial statements.  Based on the nature of the Company's operations,
Management does not expect that, upon adoption of SFAS No. 130, future reported
comprehensive income will differ materially from future reported net income.
SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the way that public enterprises report
information about operating segments in annual and interim financial statements.
Adoption of SFAS No. 131 will have no impact on the Company's results of
operations or financial condition.


 
YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The Year 2000 Issue is the risk that computer programs using two-digit date
fields will fail to properly recognize the year 2000, with the result being
business interruptions due to computer system failures by the Company's software
or hardware or that of government entities, service providers and vendors.  In
response to the Year 2000 Issue, the Company has developed a plan to assess the
Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues, and is currently in the process of
performing its review.  Based on a preliminary assessment, Management does not
believe that the Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues will have a material
effect on its financial position or results of operations.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     RVN provides for its working capital cash requirements using cash generated
solely from operations.  As shown in RVN's statement of cash flows for the year
ended December 31, 1997, operating activities provided cash of $13,659 for this
period, and was derived substantially by net income.  Net cash used for
financing activities was $13,710, which reflects aggregate dividend payments
issued to NVR during 1997.  Insofar as Homes' ability to make royalty payments
is not impaired, the Company believes that internally generated cash will be
sufficient to satisfy its near and long term cash requirements.

FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
- ---------------------

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995

     NVR Fox Ridge, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR Homes Inc. ("Homes"),
itself wholly owned by NVR, Inc. ("NVR"), was formed during 1997 to purchase
substantially all of the assets and assume certain liabilities (the "Purchase
Transaction") of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("FRH" or the "Predecessor"), a home
builder in Nashville, Tennessee.  NVR Fox Ridge, Inc. was renamed Fox Ridge
Homes, Inc. ("Fox Ridge" or the "Successor") in November, 1997.  To consummate
the purchase on October 31, 1997 (the "Purchase Date"), Fox Ridge assumed
approximately $15,160 of FRH's liabilities, paid FRH $14,250 in cash at
settlement on October 31, 1997, and issued a note payable for the remaining
$4,750 purchase price.  The note bears interest at 200 basis points above the
federal funds target rate, and will be paid in three annual installments on
October 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, including accrued interest.

     Fox Ridge accounted for this acquisition using the purchase method, which
resulted in a new basis of accounting for the assets and liabilities assumed at
the Purchase Date.  Excess of amounts paid for the business acquisition over the
net fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed ("Goodwill")
generated pursuant to the Purchase Transaction is being amortized using the
straight line method over 10 years.

     The below analysis of the results of operations includes combined results
of the Predecessor and the Successor for the year ended December 31, 1997.

     Fox Ridge revenues for 1997 decreased 13.3% to $47,617 from $54,891 in
1996. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to a 21.8% decrease in the
number of homes settled from 436 in 1996 to 341 in 1997, which was partially
offset by a 10.9% increase in average settlement price from $125.9 in 1996 to
$139.6 in 1997. New orders for 1997 increased 11.1% to 360 compared with 324 in
1996 due to a more favorable interest rate environment in the current year
compared to the prior year. Revenues for 1996 increased 42.1% to $54,891 from
$38,622 in 1995. The increase in revenues was primarily due to a 36.3% increase
in the number of homes settled from 320 in 1995 to 436 in 1996 and to a 4.3%
increase in the average settlement price from $120.7 in 1995 to $125.9 in 1996.
New orders for 1996 decreased 


 
23.0% to 324 compared with 421 in 1995. The large number of new orders in 1995
were the result of extremely favorable overall market conditions in the
Nashville, Tennessee market. Market conditions returned to more normal
sustainable levels during 1996.

     Gross profit margins decreased to 19.0% in 1997 compared to 21.5% in 1996.
The decrease in gross profit margins is primarily attributable to more
competitive market conditions and to a lessor extent an increase in finished lot
costs.  Gross profit margins decreased to 21.5% in 1996 compared to 22.2% in
1995 primarily due to an increase in finished lot costs.

     SG&A expenses for 1997 increased $208 to $5,694 from $5,486 in 1996. The
dollar increase is primarily due to the amortization of goodwill for the two
months ended December 31, 1997 as described above. SG&A expenses for 1996
increased $927 to $5,486 from $4,559 in 1995, and as a percentage of revenues
decreased to 10.0% in 1996 from 11.8% in 1995. The dollar increase is primarily
due to increased costs that correspond to the aforementioned increase in
revenues.

     Backlog units and dollars were 135 and $20,029, respectively, at December
31, 1997 compared to backlog units of 116 and dollars of $16,147 at December 31,
1996.  Backlog units and dollars were 228 and $27,357, respectively, at December
31, 1995.  The decrease in backlog units and dollars at December 31, 1996 was
due to the aforementioned decrease in new orders for 1996.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income,
and SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
information. Both statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997.  SFAS No. 130 establishes standards for reporting and display
of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general purpose
financial statements.  Based on the nature of the Company's operations,
Management does not expect that, upon adoption of SFAS No. 130, future reported
comprehensive income will differ materially from future reported net income.
SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for the way that public enterprises report
information about operating segments in annual and interim financial statements.
Adoption of SFAS No. 131 will have no impact on the Company's results of
operations or financial condition.

YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     The Year 2000 Issue is the risk that computer programs using two-digit date
fields will fail to properly recognize the year 2000, with the result being
business interruptions due to computer system failures by the Company's software
or hardware or that of government entities, service providers and vendors.  In
response to the Year 2000 Issue, the Company has developed a plan to assess the
Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues, and is currently in the process of
performing its review.  Based on a preliminary assessment, Management does not
believe that the Company's exposure to Year 2000 Issues will have a material
effect on its financial position or results of operations.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Fox Ridge generally provides for its working capital cash requirements
using cash generated from operations and working capital intercompany advances
from Homes.

     As shown in Fox Ridge's statement of cash flows for the two months ended
December 31, 1997, operating activities provided cash of $1,580 for this period,
and was primarily provided by the reduction of homebuilding inventory.  Net cash
used by investing activities was $16 representing fixed asset purchases for the
two months ended December 31, 1997.  Net cash used for financing activities was
$3,281 for the two months ended December 31, 1997 and was used primarily to
repay intercompany working capital borrowings with Homes.


 
     Insofar as Homes' ability to make working capital intercompany advances is
not impaired, the Company believes that internally generated cash and borrowings
available from Homes will be sufficient to satisfy near and long term cash
requirements.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
- -------  --------------------------------------------

     The financial statements required by this Item are included in the
financial statements and schedules included herein under Item 14 and are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
- -------  ---------------------------------------------------------------
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
- ---------------------

     Not applicable.

                                   PART III
                                   --------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
- --------  ---------------------------------------------------

     Item 10 is hereby incorporated by reference to NVR's Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 1998.
Reference is also made regarding the executive officers of the registrant to
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" following Item 4 of Part I of this
report.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
- --------  -----------------------

     Item 11 is hereby incorporated by reference to NVR's Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 1998.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
- --------  ---------------------------------------------------------------

     Item 12 is hereby incorporated by reference to NVR's Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 1998.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
- --------  -----------------------------------------------

     Item 13 is hereby incorporated by reference to NVR's Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 1998.


 
                                    PART IV
                                    -------
                                        
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
- --------  ----------------------------------------------------------------

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     NVR, INC. - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Report of Independent Auditors
     Consolidated Balance Sheets
     Consolidated Statements of Income
     Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Report of Independent Auditors
     Consolidated Balance Sheets
     Consolidated Statements of Income
     Consolidated Statements of Shareholder's Equity
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     NVR HOMES, INC. - CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Report of Independent Auditors
     Consolidated Balance Sheets
     Consolidated Statements of Income
     Consolidated  Statements of Shareholder's Equity
     Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC. - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Report of Independent Auditors
     Balance Sheets
     Statements of Income
     Statements of Shareholder's Equity
     Statements of Cash Flows
     Notes to Financial Statements

     RVN, INC. - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Report of Independent Auditors
     Balance Sheets
     Statements of Income
     Statements of Shareholder's Equity
     Statements of Cash Flows
     Notes to Financial Statements

FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

     Schedule I - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant


 
DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS

     EXHIBIT
     NUMBER          DESCRIPTION
     ------     -----------

       2.1     Debtors' Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization under
               Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (as modified to July 21, 1993).
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993
               Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-63190) (the "1993
               Registration Statement").

       3.1     Restated Articles of Incorporation of NVR, Inc. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 3.7 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration
               Statement.

       3.2     Bylaws of NVR, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.8 in
               NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration Statement.

       3.3     Restated Articles of Incorporation of NVR Homes, Inc.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.9 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993
               Registration Statement.

       3.4     Bylaws of NVR Homes, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               3.10 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration Statement.

       3.5     Articles of Incorporation of NVR Financial Services, Inc., as
               amended. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 and 3.11 in
               NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration Statement.

       3.6     Bylaws of NVR Financial Services, Inc. Incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 3.6 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration Statement.

       3.7     Certificate of Incorporation of RVN, Inc.

       3.8     Bylaws of RVN, Inc.

       3.9     Charter of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 3.9 in NVR's Form S-3 filed with the Securities and
               Exchange Commission on January 20, 1998.

      3.10     Bylaws of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 3.10 in NVR's Form S-3 filed with the Securities and
               Exchange Commission on January 20, 1998.

       4.1     Form of Trust Indenture between NVR, Inc., as issuer, NVR Homes,
               Inc. and NVR Financial Services, Inc. as guarantors, and IBJ
               Schroder Bank & Trust Company as trustee. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 4.1 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration
               Statement.

       4.2     Form of Note (included in Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1).

       4.4     Form of Supplemental Trust Indenture between NVR, Inc., as
               issuer, NVR Homes, Inc., NVR Financial Services, Inc. and RVN,
               Inc., as guarantors, and IBJ Schroder Bank & Trust Company, as
               trustee.

      *4.5     Form of Second Supplemental Trust Indenture between NVR, Inc., as
               issuer, NVR Homes, Inc., NVR Financial Services, Inc., RVN, Inc.
               and Fox Ridge Homes, Inc., as guarantors, and IBJ Schroder Bank &
               Trust Company, as trustee.

      10.1     Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and Dwight C. Schar dated
               January 1, 1996.

      10.3     Executive Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and Paul C.
               Saville dated January 1, 1995.

      10.5     Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and William J. Inman dated
               November 13, 1995.


 
      10.6     Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement dated as of June 13,
               1996 among NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. and Bank One, Texas, N.A.,
               as Agent, and the other lenders party thereto.

      10.7     NVR, Inc. Equity Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.10 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration Statement.

      10.8     NVR, Inc. Directors Long-Term Incentive Plan. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.11 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration
               Statement.

      10.9     NVR, Inc. Management Equity Incentive Plan. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration
               Statement.

     10.10     Pledge Agreement dated September 30, 1993 between IBJ Schroder
               Bank & Trust Company, as collateral agent, and NVR, Inc.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993
               Registration Statement.

     10.11     Credit and Security Agreement dated September 30, 1993 among NVR
               Homes, Inc., NVR, Inc. and The First National Bank of Boston, as
               agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 in NVR, Inc.'s
               Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 4, 1993.

     10.12     Guaranty of Collection between NVR, Inc. and The First National
               Bank of Boston, as agent. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               10.3 in NVR, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 4,
               1993.

     10.14     Gestation Financing Agreement dated January 14, 1994 between NVR
               Mortgage Finance, Inc. and Bank One, Texas, National Association.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 in NVR, Inc.'s Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.

     10.18     Agreement among Crestar Bank, NVR Savings Bank, FSB, and NVR
               Financial Services, Inc. dated November 8, 1993. Incorporated by
               reference to NVR's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 17,
               1994.

     10.19     Employee Stock Ownership Plan of NVR, Inc.

     10.20     Amended and restated credit and security agreement dated as of
               May 5, 1995 among NVR Homes, Inc. as borrower and NVR, Inc. as
               Guarantor and Certain Banks and The First National Bank of
               Boston, as Agent for itself and Certain Banks.

     10.22     NVR, Inc. 1994 Management Equity Incentive Plan.
 
     10.25     First modification of amended and restated credit and security
               agreement dated as of January 16, 1996 among NVR Homes, Inc. as
               borrower and NVR, Inc. as Guarantor and Certain Banks and The
               First National Bank of Boston, as Agent for itself and Certain
               Banks.

     10.26     NVR, Inc. Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 99.3 of NVR, Inc.'s Form S-8 Registration
               Statement filed May 31, 1996.

     10.27     NVR, Inc. Directors' Long-Term Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 99.3 of NVR, Inc.'s Form S-8 Registration
               Statement filed May 31, 1996.

     10.28     Second modification of amended and restated credit and security
               agreement dated as of May 5, 1996 among NVR Homes, Inc. as
               borrower and NVR, Inc. as Guarantor and Certain Banks and The
               First National Bank of Boston, as Agent for itself and Certain
               Banks.

     10.29     Third modification of amended and restated credit and security
               agreement dated as of December 31, 1996 among NVR Homes, Inc. as
               borrower and NVR, Inc. as Guarantor and Certain Banks and The
               First National Bank of Boston, as Agent for itself and Certain
               Banks.


 
     10.30     NVR, Inc. High Performance Compensation Plan dated as of January
               1, 1996.

     10.31     Uncommitted Gestation Financing Agreement dated as of March 15,
               1996 between NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. and Bank One, Texas,
               National Association.

    *10.32     Whole Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement between NVR Mortgage
               Finance, Inc., as seller, and Prudential Securities Realty
               Funding Corporation, as Purchaser, dated as of August 11, 1997.

    *10.33     Mortgage Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of January 15,
               1997 between Prudential Securities Realty Funding Corporation and
               NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc.

    *10.34     Gestation Financing Agreement between NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc.
               and Bank One Investment Advisors Corporation dated as of August
               15, 1997.

    *10.35     Standby Gestation Financing Agreement between NVR Mortgage
               Finance and Bank One, Texas N.A. dated as of August 15, 1997.

       *11     Computation of Earnings per Share.

       *21     NVR, Inc. Subsidiaries.
 
       *23     Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP (independent auditors).

       *27     Financial Data Schedule

*Filed herewith.
_________________

REPORTS ON FORM 8-K (NONE)


 
                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   NVR, Inc.



                                   By:   /s/ Dwight C. Schar
                                    ------------------------------------------
                                         Dwight C. Schar
                                         Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                         President and Chief Executive Officer

Dated:  March 9, 1998

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

     SIGNATURE                         TITLE                    DATE
     ---------                         -----                    ----
                                 Chairman of the Board
                                 of Directors, President and
/s/ Dwight C. Schar              Chief Executive Officer
- -----------------------------
Dwight C. Schar                                                 March 9, 1998

 
/s/ C. Scott Bartlett, Jr.       Director
- -----------------------------
C. Scott Bartlett, Jr.                                          March 9, 1998
 
/s/ Manuel H. Johnson            Director
- -----------------------------
Manuel H. Johnson                                               March 9, 1998
 
/s/ William A. Moran             Director
- -----------------------------
William A. Moran                                                March 9, 1998
 
/s/ Richard H. Norair, Sr.       Director
- -----------------------------
Richard H. Norair, Sr.                                          March 9, 1998
 
/s/ David A. Preiser             Director
- -----------------------------
David A. Preiser                                                March 9, 1998
 
/s/ George E. Slye               Director
- -----------------------------
George E. Slye                                                  March 9, 1998
 
/s/ John M. Toups                Director
- -----------------------------
John M. Toups                                                   March 9, 1998
 
                                 Senior Vice President,
                                 Chief Financial Officer
/s/ Paul C. Saville              and Treasurer
- -----------------------------
Paul C. Saville                                                 March 9, 1998


 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                          ----------------------------



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
NVR, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVR, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997.  These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NVR, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 28, 1998


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                          Consolidated Balance Sheets
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                          Consolidated Balance Sheets
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                       Consolidated Statements of Income
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                             (dollars in thousands)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                            (dollars in thousands)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
 
          The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
     accounts of NVR, Inc. ("NVR" or "The Company"), its wholly-owned
     subsidiaries and certain partially-owned entities. All significant
     intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

     USE OF ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
     accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
     assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
     disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
     financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
     during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
     estimates.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

          Cash and cash equivalents includes short-term investments with
     original maturities of three months or less.

     HOMEBUILDING INVENTORY

          Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value. Cost of lots
     and completed and uncompleted housing units represent the accumulated
     actual cost thereof. Field construction supervisors' salaries and related
     direct overhead expenses are included in inventory costs. Interest costs
     are not capitalized into inventory. Upon settlement, the cost of the units
     is expensed on a specific identification basis. Cost of manufacturing
     materials is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

     REORGANIZATION VALUE IN EXCESS OF AMOUNTS ALLOCABLE TO IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS 

          Reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to identifiable
     assets ("reorganization value") is being amortized on a straight-line basis
     over 15 years. Accumulated amortization as of December 31, 1997 and 1996
     was $34,489 and $26,948, respectively. Determination of any impairment
     losses related to this intangible asset is based on consideration of
     projected undiscounted cash flows.

     GOODWILL
 
          The excess of amounts paid for business acquisitions over the net fair
     value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed ("Goodwill") is
     amortized using the straight line method over ten years, and originated
     from the October 31, 1997 acquisition of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. See Note 2.
     Accumulated amortization was $182 at December 31, 1997. Determination of
     any impairment losses related to this intangible asset is based on
     consideration of projected undiscounted cash flows.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     MORTGAGE LOANS HELD FOR SALE

          Mortgage loans held for sale are valued at the lower of cost or market
     on a net aggregate basis.

     MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES AND MORTGAGE-BACKED BONDS

          Prior to 1996, the Company's ownership interests in mortgage-backed
     securities and the related mortgage-backed bonds were presented on a gross
     basis on the consolidated balance sheets and income statements.
     Accordingly, the book values of the mortgage-backed securities and 
     mortgage-backed bonds were presented separately as assets and liabilities,
     respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets, and interest income on
     mortgage-backed securities and interest expense of the mortgage-backed
     bonds were presented separately as income and expense, respectively, on the
     consolidated income statements. All of such interests are at, or are
     nearing, the ends of their economic useful lives, and as such, NVR does not
     anticipate that such assets will generate significant amounts of income or
     cash flow in the future. The Company's consolidated balance sheets for all
     periods presented reflect its ownership interests in mortgage-backed
     securities net of the related mortgage-backed bonds as a component of other
     assets of the mortgage banking segment, and the consolidated statements of
     income for all periods presented reflect earnings from such interests net
     of the related interest expense as a component of other income of the
     mortgage banking segment.

     ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
 
          In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the
     "FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No.
     128, Earnings per Share. SFAS No. 128 supersedes APB Opinion No. 15,
     Earnings per Share ("Opinion No. 15") and requires the calculation and dual
     the measures of primary is effective for prior period EPS data presentation
     of Basic and fully-diluted EPS as financial statements to conform with SFAS
     and Diluted earnings per reported under Opinion issued for periods No. 128
     is required. share ("EPS"), replacing No. 15. SFAS No. 128 ending December
     31, 1997. Restatement of prior period EPS data to conform with SFAS No. 128
     is required.
 
          The following weighted average shares and share equivalents are used
     to calculate Basic and Diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 1997,
     1996 and 1995:
 



 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

          The Company also adopted SFAS No. 125, Accounting for Transfers and
     Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities during the
     year ended December 31, 1997. Such adoption did not have a material impact
     on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

     REVENUES-HOMEBUILDING OPERATIONS
                       
          NVR Homes, Inc. ("Homes"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR, builds
     light-frame, low-rise residences which generally are produced on a pre-sold
     basis for the ultimate customer. Revenues are recognized at the time units
     are completed and title passes to the customer. Additionally, to a
     significantly lesser degree, Homes sells house packages to builder-dealers
     and other homebuilders and recognizes revenue at the time the product is
     delivered to the builder-dealer or homebuilder.

     MORTGAGE BANKING FEES

          Mortgage banking fees include income earned by NVR's mortgage banking
     subsidiaries for originating and processing mortgage loans, servicing
     mortgage loans held in the servicing portfolio, title fees, gains and
     losses on the sale of mortgage loans and mortgage servicing and other
     activities incidental to mortgage banking. Loan origination fees and direct
     loan origination costs are deferred and the net deferred fees, or costs,
     are recognized either upon the sale of the loan or as an adjustment of the
     yield over the life of the loan.

     MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS

          Mortgage servicing rights are recorded by allocating the total cost of
     acquiring mortgage loans to the mortgage servicing rights and the loans
     (without the mortgage servicing rights) based on their relative fair
     values.

          NVR measures the impairment of the mortgage servicing rights based on
     their current fair value. Current fair value is determined through the
     discounted present value of estimated future net servicing cashflows using
     a risk-based discount rate and assumptions based upon market estimates for
     future servicing revenues and expenses (including prepayment expectations,
     servicing costs, default rates, and interest earnings on escrows). For the
     purposes of evaluating and measuring impairment of the mortgage servicing
     rights, they are stratified using the predominant risk characteristic of
     the underlying mortgage loans. NVR has determined that the predominant risk
     characteristic of the underlying mortgage loans is interest rate.
     Impairment, and subsequent changes in measurement of impairment, of any
     individual stratum is recognized through a valuation allowance for that
     stratum. The mortgage servicing rights are amortized to general and
     administrative expense in proportion to, and over the period of, the
     estimated net servicing income.

     DEPRECIATION

          Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of the assets
     using the straight-line method. Amortization of capital lease assets is
     included in depreciation expense. 


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)


     INCOME TAXES

          NVR files a consolidated federal income tax return. Deferred income
     taxes reflect the impact of "temporary differences" between the amount of
     assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and such amounts as
     measured by enacted tax rules and regulations.

     FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

          Except as otherwise noted in notes 1 and 4 to the financial
     statements, NVR believes that insignificant differences exist between the
     carrying value and the fair value of its financial instruments. The
     estimated fair value of NVR's 11% Senior Notes due 2003 ("Senior Notes") as
     of December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $130,776 and $127,044, respectively, with
     a carrying value of $120,000 at both respective dates. The estimated fair
     values are based on quoted market prices for these instruments.

     STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

          As permitted under SFAS No. 123, NVR has elected to continue to follow
     the guidance of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for
     Stock Issued to Employees, in accounting for its stock-based employee
     compensation arrangements. The pro forma financial information required by
     SFAS No. 123 is included in footnote 10.

2.   ACQUISITION

     NVR Fox Ridge, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Homes, was formed during
1997 to purchase substantially all of the assets and assume certain liabilities
of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("FRH"), a leading homebuilder in Nashville, Tennessee.
NVR Fox Ridge, Inc. was renamed Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("Fox Ridge") in November,
1997. To consummate the purchase on October 31, 1997, Fox Ridge assumed
approximately $15,160 of FRH's liabilities, paid FRH $14,250 in cash at
settlement on October 31, 1997, and issued a note payable for the remaining
$4,750 purchase price. The note bears interest at 200 basis points above the
federal funds target rate, and will be paid in three annual installments on
October 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, including accrued interest.

     Fox Ridge accounted for this acquisition using the purchase method, and the
operations of the acquired business have been included in NVR's consolidated
statements of income since its acquisition.  Goodwill that was generated
pursuant to the purchase transaction is being amortized using the straight line
method over 10 years.

     The following unaudited pro forma summary of combined operations was
prepared to illustrate the estimated effects of the 1997 acquisition of FRH as
if such acquisition had occurred on the first day of the respective periods
presented.




 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

3.   SEGMENT INFORMATION, NATURE OF OPERATIONS, AND CERTAIN CONCENTRATIONS

     NVR is a holding company that operates in two business segments:
homebuilding and mortgage banking.  The homebuilding segment is one of the
largest homebuilders in the United States and in the Washington, D.C. and
Baltimore, Maryland metropolitan areas, where NVR derived approximately 66% of
its 1997 homebuilding revenues.  NVR's homebuilding segment primarily constructs
and sells single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings in
three distinct product lines, through two divisions and one wholly owned
subsidiary: Ryan Homes, NVHomes and Fox Ridge.  Ryan Homes builds moderately
priced homes in sixteen metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia,
Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, New Jersey,
Delaware and Tennessee, and markets its homes primarily to first-time buyers.
NVHomes builds homes largely in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, and
markets its homes primarily to move-up buyers.  Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. builds
moderately priced homes in Nashville, TN and also markets its homes primarily to
first-time homebuyers.

     The mortgage banking segment, which operates under NVR Financial Services,
Inc. ("NVRFS"), currently includes a national mortgage banking operation and a
limited-purpose financing subsidiary (the "Limited-Purpose Financing
Subsidiary") which was formed to facilitate the financing of long-term mortgage
loans through the sale of non-recourse bonds collateralized by mortgage-backed
securities.  The Company sells all of the mortgage loans it closes into the
secondary markets and sells its originated mortgage servicing rights on a flow
basis.  A significant portion of the Company's mortgage operations are conducted
in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland metropolitan area.  Although
NVR's mortgage banking operations provide financing to a substantial portion of
NVR's homebuilding customers, NVR's homebuilding customers accounted for only
43% of the dollar amount of loans closed in 1997.

     Because there are no significant holding company revenues, unallocable
selling, general and administrative expense and assets other than its investment
in the homebuilding and mortgage banking subsidiaries, the holding company
(excluding its investment in its subsidiaries) is presented as part of the
homebuilding segment in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and
following:




 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)



   *Intersegment transactions primarily represent intercompany advances and
related interest income/expense of the mortgage banking segment.


4.   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

      During 1997, 1996, and 1995, NVR purchased, at market prices, developed
lots from a company that is controlled by a member of the board of directors.
Those purchases totaled $8,066, $6,612, and $8,877 during 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  NVR expects to purchase the remaining lots under contract as of
December 31, 1997 over the next 18 to 24 months for an aggregate purchase price
of approximately $32,000.
 
     During the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, one of the
executive officers of NVR was a partner in a law firm which billed NVR
approximately $375, $344 and $324, respectively, in fees and expenses for legal
services.
 
     During the year ended December 31, 1995, NVR paid $181 to a company
partially owned by the chief executive officer of NVR as rent for its executive
office space.  Effective October 1995, the chief executive officer divested his
ownership interest.

     During 1996, NVR repurchased, at market prices, 2,370,839 shares of its
common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $25,401 from certain investors
who at the time of the purchases were beneficial owners of greater than five
percent (5%) of the Company's common stock.  In addition, during 1996, the
Company also repurchased, at market prices, 304,735 warrants to purchase the
Company's common stock at an aggregate purchase price of $166 from certain of
the aforementioned investors.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

5.   LOAN SERVICING PORTFOLIO, MORTGAGE LOAN COMMITMENTS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET
     RISK

     At December 31, 1997 and 1996, NVRFS was servicing approximately 2,947 and
9,200 mortgage loans for various investors with aggregate balances of
approximately $224,000 and $579,000, respectively.
 
     At December 31, 1997, NVRFS had capitalized mortgage servicing rights of
$2,220 which related to approximately $175 million of the aggregate $224 million
in loans serviced.  The mortgage servicing rights associated with the remaining
$49 million in loans serviced are not subject to capitalization because the
loans were originated and sold prior to NVR's adoption of SFAS No. 122 on
January 1, 1995.  At December 31, 1996, NVRFS had capitalized purchased mortgage
servicing rights of $6,309.
 
     NVRFS assesses the fair value of the capitalized mortgage servicing rights
by stratifying the underlying loans by interest rate. The fair value of the
mortgage servicing rights is then determined through the present value of
estimated future net servicing cashflows using a risk based discount rate, and
assumptions based upon market estimates for future servicing revenues and
expenses (including prepayment expectations, servicing costs, default rates, and
interest earnings on escrows). The fair value of the capitalized mortgage
servicing rights was $2,471 and $7,563 at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. The fair value of the mortgage servicing rights not subject to
capitalization was $490 and $650 at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
Based on management's estimate of the fair value of the designated strata, no
impairment valuation allowance is necessary.
 
     NVRFS amortizes the capitalized mortgage servicing rights in proportion to,
and over the period of, the estimated net servicing income.  The amortization
for the periods ending December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 was $506, $1,627 and
$2,665, respectively.
 
     In the normal course of business, NVR Finance enters into contractual
commitments involving financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk. These
financial instruments include commitments to extend mortgage loans to customers
and forward contracts to sell mortgage-backed securities to broker/dealers.
These instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and market
rate risk in excess of the amounts recognized in the balance sheet.
 
     NVR Finance's exposure to credit loss, in the event of non-performance by
the customers, is represented by the contractual amount of the commitment for
the mortgage loans. NVR Finance uses the same credit policies in making
commitments as it does for on-balance sheet mortgage loans.

     There were mortgage loan commitments aggregating approximately $129,949 and
$94,901 outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  There were
open forward delivery contracts aggregating approximately $195,719 and $130,891
at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
     NVR Finance enters into contractual commitments to extend credit to buyers
of single-family homes with fixed expiration dates.  The commitments become
effective when the borrowers "lock-in" a specified interest rate within time
frames established by NVR Finance.  All mortgagors are evaluated for credit
worthiness prior to the extension of the commitment.  Market risk arises if
interest rates move adversely between the time of the "lock-in" of rates by the
borrower and the sale date to a broker/dealer.  This market risk is managed by
entering into forward contracts as discussed below.
 
     Since certain of the commitments are expected to expire without a loan
closing, the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash
requirements.  Collateral for loans granted is obtained by a 


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

first mortgage security interest in real estate whose appraised values exceed
the contractual amount of the commitment.
 
     NVR Finance enters into optional and mandatory forward delivery contracts
to sell mortgage-backed securities at specific prices and dates to
broker/dealers. NVR Finance has established policies governing which
broker/dealers can be used to conduct these activities. Credit risk associated
with forward contracts is limited to the replacement cost of those forward
contracts in a gain position, and at December 31, 1997 and 1996 there were no
such positions. There were no counterparty default losses on forward contracts
in 1997, 1996 or 1995. Market risk with respect to forward contracts arises from
changes in the value of contractual positions due to fluctuations in interest
rates. NVR Finance limits its exposure to market risk by monitoring differences
between the total of commitments to customers and loans held for sale and
forward contracts with broker/dealers. In the event NVR Finance has forward
delivery contract commitments in excess of available mortgage-backed securities,
NVR Finance completes the transaction by either paying or receiving a fee
to/from the broker/dealer equal to the increase/decrease in the market value of
the forward contract. NVRFS has no market risk associated with optional delivery
contracts because NVRFS has the right but not the obligation to deliver mortgage
backed securities to broker/dealers under these contracts.

6.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET



     Included in Homebuilding property, plant and equipment are amounts for land
totaling $1,732 at December 31, 1997 and 1996.

     Certain property, plant and equipment listed above is collateral for
various debt of NVR and certain of its subsidiaries as more fully described in
note 7.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

7.   DEBT



(a)  On September 30, 1993, Homes as borrower and NVR as guarantor entered into
a working capital revolving credit agreement (the "Working Capital Revolving
Credit" or "Senior Bank Indebtedness"). This facility currently provides for
unsecured borrowings up to $60,000, subject to certain borrowing base
limitations, and is generally available to fund working capital needs of Homes
and for certain payments of NVR. Up to approximately $24,000 of this facility is
currently available for issuance in the form of letters of credit of which
$6,059 and $5,345 were outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
The Working Capital Revolving Credit is for a three year period ending May 31,
2000 and outstanding amounts bear interest at the election of the Company, at
(i) the base rate of interest announced by the Facility agent or (ii) 2.0% above
the Eurodollar Rate. The weighted average interest rates for the amounts
outstanding under the facility were 8.1% and 8.0% for 1997 and 1996,
respectively. NVR's guarantee is a guarantee of collection only and is
unsecured.

     The Working Capital Revolving Credit agreement contains numerous operating
and financial covenants, including required levels of net worth, fixed charge
coverage ratios, and several other covenants related to the construction
operations of Homes.  In addition, the Working Capital Revolving Credit
agreement contains restrictions on the ability of Homes and, in certain cases,
NVR to, among other things, incur debt and make investments.  Also, the Working
Capital Revolving Credit agreement prohibits NVR from paying dividends to
shareholders.

(b)  Other notes payable as of December 31, 1997 is principally comprised of a
$4,750 note payable issued in connection with the acquisition of Fox Ridge (see
Note 2). The weighted average interest rate was 7.5% during 1997.

(c)  The capital lease and financing obligations and mortgages have either fixed
or variable interest rates ranging from 3.0% to 13.9% and are collateralized by
land, buildings and equipment with a net book value of $11,602 and $12,181 at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     The following schedule provides future minimum lease payments under all
financing and capital leases together with the present value as of December 31,
1997:



(d)  On September 30, 1993, NVR received gross proceeds of $160,000 from the
sale of its Senior Notes. The Senior Notes bear interest at a rate of 11% per
annum, payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year and are due
in 2003. The Senior Notes will be redeemable at the option of the Company, in
whole or in part, at any time on or after December 1, 1998 at redemption prices
ranging from 105.5% of par in 1998 to par beginning in 2001.

     The Senior Notes are senior obligations of the Company and rank pari passu
in right of payment to all existing and future senior indebtedness of the
Company and senior in right of payment to all existing and future subordinated
indebtedness of the Company.  The Senior Notes are secured by a first priority
pledge of the capital stock of Homes, Fox Ridge, NVRFS and RVN, Inc. ("RVN")
(Homes, Fox Ridge, NVRFS and RVN, collectively, the "Guarantors").  The Senior
Notes also are guaranteed on a senior, unsecured basis by the Guarantors;
provided, however, that the guarantee by Homes is subordinated to up to $60,000
of Senior Bank Indebtedness.  During the year ended 1995, the Company purchased
$15,000 in principal amount of its Senior Notes in the open market.  These
transactions resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1,572 for the year ended 1995, and
is included in the accompanying financial statements as an extraordinary item,
net of applicable taxes.  Through December 31, 1997, the Company has repurchased
$40,000 in the aggregate of its Senior Notes in the open market.
 
     The indenture governing the Senior Notes has, among other items,
limitations on asset sales by NVR and the Guarantors and requires that NVR, on a
consolidated basis, maintain net worth of at least $80,000.  In addition, the
indenture limits dividends, certain investments and NVR's and the Guarantors'
ability to incur additional debt if NVR is in default under the indenture or if
NVR does not meet certain fixed charge coverage ratios.

(e)  The mortgage warehouse facility (the "Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit")
of NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. ("NVR Finance") currently has a borrowing limit of
$105,000. The interest rate under the Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit is
either: (i) the federal funds rate plus either 1.35% or 1.5% depending on the
type of collateral, or (ii) 1.5% to the extent that NVR Finance provides
compensating balances. The weighted average interest rates for amounts
outstanding under the Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit line were 5.4% and
3.6% during 1997 and 1996, respectively. The Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit
is collateralized primarily by mortgage loans and gestation mortgage-backed
securities. The Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit Agreement is an annually
renewable facility and currently expires in June 1998.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     The Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit agreement includes, among other
items, restrictions on NVR Finance incurring additional borrowings and making
intercompany dividends and tax payments.  In addition, NVR Finance is required
to maintain a minimum net worth.

(f)  NVR Finance from time to time enters into various gestation and repurchase
agreements. NVR Finance currently has available an aggregate of $145,000 of
borrowing capacity in such uncommitted and committed facilities. Amounts
outstanding thereunder accrue interest at various rates tied to the federal
funds rate and are collateralized by gestation mortgage-backed securities and
whole loans. The uncommitted and committed facilities generally require NVR
Finance to, among other items, maintain a minimum net worth and limit its level
of liabilities in relation to its net worth. The weighted average interest rates
for amounts outstanding under the uncommitted and committed facilities were 6.8%
and 6.1% during 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Maturities with respect to the other notes payable, other term debt, and
the Senior Notes as of December 31, 1997 are as follows:



     The $136,078 maturing after 2002 includes $120,000 in Senior Notes which
mature in April 2003.
 
     Various debt agreements limit the ability of NVR's subsidiaries to transfer
funds to NVR in the form of dividends, loans or advances.  NVR's subsidiaries
had net assets, after intercompany eliminations, of $261,806 as of December 31,
1997 that were so restricted.
 
     At December 31, 1997, the homebuilding and mortgage banking segments had
restricted cash of $1,272 and $3,723, respectively, which includes customer
deposits, mortgagor tax, insurance, completion escrows and other amounts
collected at closing which relates to mortgage loans held for sale and to home
sales.

8.   COMMON STOCK

     There were 11,094,522 and 13,574,402 common shares outstanding at December
31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  As of December 31, 1997, NVR had reacquired a
total of 9,247,255 shares of NVR common shares at an aggregate cost of $100,383.
In February 1997 and 1996, 172,247 and 174,036 common shares, respectively, were
issued from the treasury in satisfaction of employee benefit liabilities accrued
at December 31, 1996 and 1995.  The average cost basis for the shares reissued
from the treasury in 1997 was $13.97 per share, and the average cost basis for
those reissued in 1996 was $9.82 per share.  In addition, 117,472 stock options
were exercised during 1997 with NVR realizing $846 in equity proceeds.

   On September 30, 1993, NVR issued warrants to purchase 2,162,828 shares of
common stock at an exercise price of $8.80 per share with an expiration date of
September 30, 1996.  During 1996, 1,495,515 warrants were exercised for a like
number of common shares, with NVR realizing $13,161 in aggregate equity
proceeds.  In addition, during 1996 NVR repurchased 561,135 warrants, at market
prices, for an 


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

aggregate purchase price of $309. NVR retired the repurchased warrants with a
charge to retained earnings equal to the purchase price. A total of 106,178
warrants expired unexercised.

9.   INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:



     In addition to amounts applicable to income before taxes, the following
income tax expense (benefit) amounts were recorded in shareholders' equity:



     Deferred income taxes on NVR's consolidated balance sheets are comprised of
the following:



     Deferred tax assets arise principally as a result of various reserves
required for financial reporting purposes which are not currently deductible for
tax return purposes.  Deferred tax liabilities arise principally as a result of
depreciation and accounting for certain sales on the installment method for tax
return purposes.

     Management believes the Company will have sufficient available carry-backs
and future taxable income to make it more likely than not that the net deferred
tax asset will be realized.  Taxable income was $66,833, $56,159 and $43,454 for
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

     Tax benefits realized in subsequent periods related to unrecognized
deferred tax assets as of September 30, 1993 will be recorded as a reduction of
reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to identifiable assets.  For
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, $0, $7,000 and $0,
respectively, of such benefits were realized.  Unrecognized deferred tax assets
which arose as of September 30, 1993 amounted to $2,852 as of December 31, 1997
and 1996, respectively.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)
 
     A reconciliation of income tax expense in the accompanying statements of
income to the amount computed by applying the statutory Federal income tax rate
to income before income taxes, discontinued operations and extraordinary gains
is as follows:



10.  PROFIT SHARING AND INCENTIVE PLANS

     Profit Sharing Plans--NVR has a trustee-administered, profit sharing
retirement plan (the "Profit Sharing Plan") and an Employee Stock Ownership Plan
("ESOP") covering substantially all employees.  The Profit Sharing Plan and the
ESOP provide for annual contributions in amounts as determined by the NVR Board
of Directors (the "Board").  The combined retirement plan expense for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 was $3,081, $4,627 and $3,993,
respectively.  During 1997 and 1996, the ESOP purchased in the open market
110,569 and 150,000 shares respectively of NVR common stock using cash
contributions provided by NVR.  As of December 31, 1997, all shares held by the
ESOP have been allocated to participant accounts.
 
     Management Incentive Plans--Management long-term incentive plans provide
several types of equity incentives to NVR's executives and managers.  The equity
incentives take the form of stock options and performance share awards as
described below.  Stock options issued under the management long-term incentive
plans are issued with an exercise price equal to the market value of the
underlying shares on the date of grant.
 
     Under the Management Incentive Plan adopted by the Board in 1993,
participants received options to purchase a total of 1,117,949 NVR shares (the
"1993 NVR Share Options").  The 1993 NVR Share Options issued under the
Management Incentive Plan were fully vested as of December 31, 1996, and
generally expire 10 years after the dates upon which they were granted.




 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     Exercise prices for Management Incentive Plan options outstanding at
December 31, 1997 range from $5.06 to $9.11 per share, and their weighted
average remaining contractual life equals 5.75 years.

     Under the 1994 Management Incentive Plan (the "1994 Incentive Plan"),
executive officers and other key employees of the Company are eligible to
receive stock options (the "1994 NVR Share Options") and performance shares (the
"1994 Performance Shares").  There are 48,195 1994 NVR Share Options and
1,124,929 1994 Performance Shares authorized for grant under the 1994 Incentive
Plan.  The 1994 NVR Share Options generally expire 10 years after the dates upon
which they were granted, and vest in one-third increments on each of December
31, 1997, 1998 and 1999, with vesting based upon continued employment.



     All 1994 Incentive Plan options outstanding at December 31, 1997 have an
exercise price of $14.00 per share, and their weighted average remaining
contractual life equals 9.2 years.
 
     A total of 1,105,200 1994 Performance Shares have been granted to employees
as of December 31, 1997 and one-third of the 1994 Performance Shares have
vested.  Up to one-third of the total 1994 Performance Shares authorized may
vest on each of December 31, 1998 and 1999 if certain earnings targets are met
or exceeded.   All 1994 Performance Shares that do not vest are forfeited back
to NVR on December 31, 1999.
 
     During 1996, the Company's Shareholders approved the Board of Directors'
adoption of the Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan (the "Management Long
Term Stock Option Plan").  There are 2,000,000 non-qualified stock options
("Options") authorized under the Management Long Term Stock Option Plan.  The
Options generally expire 10 years after the dates upon which they were granted,
and vest in one-third increments on each of December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002,
with vesting based upon continued employment.




 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     Exercise prices for Management Long-Term Incentive Plan options outstanding
at December 31, 1997 range from $10.625 to $22.625 per share, and their weighted
average remaining contractual life equals 9.6 years.

     The weighted average fair values of grants made in 1997 and 1996 for
management incentive plans were $10.13 and $6.14, respectively.  The fair values
of the options granted were estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model based on the following weighted average assumptions:



     Directors' Incentive Plans -- The NVR Directors' Long Term Incentive Plan
provides for each eligible director to be granted options ("Directors' Options")
to purchase 22,750 shares of common stock with a maximum number of shares
issuable under the plan of 364,000.  There were 182,000 Directors' Options
granted to eligible directors on September 30, 1993, leaving 182,000 options
available for future grants as of December 31, 1997.  The option exercise price
for those options granted on September 30, 1993 was $16.60 per share, which
exceeded the fair value of the underlying shares on the date of grant.  None of
the Directors' Options granted have been canceled or exercised since the grant
date.  The options became exercisable six months after the date of grant and
expire in September 2003.  Pursuant to the plan, each outside director also
received a one-time cash payment of $200 during 1997 for the achievement of
certain performance goals under a five-year measurement period beginning
September 30, 1993.

     In addition, there were 192,000 NVR share options authorized and granted in
1996 to the Company's outside directors under the Directors' Long Term Stock
Option Plan (the "Directors' Long Term Plan").  There are no additional options
available for grant under this plan.  The option exercise price for the options
granted was $10.25 per share, which was equal to the fair market value of the
Company's Shares on the date of grant.  The Options were granted for a 10 year
period beginning from the date of grant, and vest in one-third increments on
each of December 31, 1999, 2000, and 2001.  The weighted average grant-date fair
value of the options granted during 1996 was $5.98 per share.  The fair value
was calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, under the following
assumptions: i) the estimated option life was equal to ten years, ii) the risk
free interest rate was 7.1% (based on the U.S. Treasury Strip quote on the date
of grant, iii) the expected volatility equaled 28.9%, and iv) the estimated
dividend yield was 0%.
 
     SFAS No. 123 requires companies who continue to apply Opinion 25 to account
for their stock-based employee compensation arrangements to provide pro forma
net income and earnings per share as if the fair value based method had been
used to account for compensation cost.  Accordingly, pro forma net income and
earnings per share would have been  $27,637 ($2.09 per diluted share), $24,849
($1.64 per diluted share), and $17,327 ($1.12 per diluted share) for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, if the Company had
accounted for its stock based employee compensation arrangements using the fair
value method.  The 1997, 1996 and 1995 effects of applying SFAS No. 123  for
providing pro forma disclosures are not likely to be representative of the
effects on reported net income and earnings per share for future years because
the number of option grants and the fair value assigned to the grants could
differ.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

11.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     NVR is committed under several non-cancelable operating leases involving
office space and equipment, manufacturing facilities and equipment. Future
minimum lease payments under these operating leases as of December 31, 1997 are
as follows:



     Total rent expense incurred under operating leases was approximately
$3,425, $3,180 and $3,363 for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.
 
     During the ordinary course of operating the mortgage banking and
homebuilding businesses, NVR is required to enter into bond or letter of credit
arrangements with local municipalities, government agencies, or land developers
to collateralize its obligations under various contracts.  NVR had approximately
$13,364 of contingent obligations under such agreements as of December 31, 1997.
NVR believes it will fulfill its obligations under the related contracts and
does not anticipate any losses under these bonds or letters of credit.
 
     NVR and its subsidiaries are also involved in litigation arising from the
normal course of business. In the opinion of management, and based on advice of
legal counsel, this litigation will not have any material adverse effect on the
financial position or results of operations of NVR.

12.  MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES, NET OF MORTGAGE-BACKED BONDS, AND RELATED
     ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

     Mortgage-backed securities ("MBS") serve as collateral for the related
mortgage-backed bonds ("Bonds") sold to third parties.  The MBS cannot be sold
except upon specified call dates of the Bonds.  The calling of the Bonds at
those dates is solely at the option of the Company.  Principal and interest
payments on the MBS are used to make the quarterly payments on the Bonds.  In
addition, prepayments of the underlying MBS are passed through as repayments of
the Bonds so that the Bonds may be fully paid prior to their stated maturities.
The Bonds are not guaranteed by NVR or any of its subsidiaries, other than the
issuing Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary.
 
     The MBS and the reserve amounts which constitute the collateral for the
Bonds of a series are held by a trustee for the benefit of the bondholders.  The
specific collateral pledged to secure a particular series is not available as
collateral for any other series.  In addition, the Company may, under certain
circumstances, redeem certain series of Bonds.  In such certain circumstances,
the Bonds are redeemed at par and any market appreciation or depreciation
accrues to the Company.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     During 1997, NVR sold, at a premium, MBS totaling $15,126, the proceeds of
which were used to redeem in full the related outstanding Bonds which totaled
$14,074.  The sales of the MBS resulted in a pre-tax gain of $590, which was
substantially offset by a pre-tax loss on the related Bonds of $552.

     During 1996, NVR sold, at a premium, MBS totaling $45,835, the proceeds of
which were used to redeem in full the related outstanding Bonds which totaled
$44,518.  The sales of the MBS resulted in a pre-tax gain of $2,077, which was
partially offset by a pre-tax loss on the related Bonds of $1,586.

     The following comprise the assets and liabilities of the Limited Purpose
Financing Subsidiary:



     The weighted average portfolio yield on the MBS was 9.1% and 8.9% at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The Bonds mature through May 1, 2017
and bear interest ranging from 8.0% to 9.0%.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

13.  QUARTERLY RESULTS [UNAUDITED]

     The following table sets forth unaudited selected financial data and
operating information on a quarterly basis for the years ended December 31, 1997
and 1996.

 



(1)  Earnings per share before discontinued operations and extraordinary gains
     represent diluted earnings per share as defined in SFAS No. 128. Quarterly
     data for the year ended December 31, 1996 and for the first three quarters
     of 1997 have been restated from earnings per share data previously
     published in the Company's Form 10-Q's for the respective quarters pursuant
     to the requirements of SFAS No. 128.

(2)  As discussed in Note 2, Homes acquired Fox Ridge on October 31, 1997. The
     acquisition of Fox Ridge increased the Company's backlog by 150 units on
     the date of the acquisition.


 
                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                         ----------------------------


The Board of Directors and Shareholder
NVR Financial Services, Inc.:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVR Financial
Services, Inc. and subsidiaries, a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR, Inc., as of
December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related consolidated statements of income,
shareholder's equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1997.  These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NVR Financial
Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP


Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 28, 1998


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                          Consolidated Balance Sheets
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                       Consolidated Statements of Income
                            (dollars in thousands)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                          NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                Consolidated Statements of Shareholder's Equity
                             (dollars in thousands)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                          NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                             (dollars in thousands)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)



1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

          The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
     accounts of NVR Financial Services, Inc. ("NVRFS" or the "Company"), its
     wholly owned subsidiaries and certain majority owned entities. NVRFS is a
     wholly owned subsidiary of NVR, Inc. ("NVR"). All significant intercompany
     transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

     USE OF ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
     accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
     assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
     disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
     financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
     during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
     estimates.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
          Cash and cash equivalents includes short-term investments with
     original maturities of three months or less.

     MORTGAGE LOANS HELD FOR SALE

          Mortgage loans held for sale are valued at the lower of cost or market
     on a net aggregate basis, including effects of forward contracts.

     MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES

          Mortgage-backed securities of the Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary
     (the "Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary") serve as collateral for the
     Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary bonds sold to third parties. The
     mortgage-backed securities cannot be sold except upon specified call dates
     of the bonds. The calling of the bonds at those dates is at the option of
     the Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary.

     PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

          Property and equipment are valued at cost less accumulated
     depreciation of $3,328 and $3,367 at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
     respectively. Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of the
     assets using the straight-line method.

     ADOPTION OF ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE

          The Company adopted SFAS No. 125, Accounting for Transfers and
     Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities during the
     year ended December 31, 1997. SFAS No. 125 superseded SFAS No. 122,
     Accounting for Mortgage Servicing Rights. Such adoption did not have a
     material impact on the Company's financial condition or results of
     operations.


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

     MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS
     
          Mortgage servicing rights are recorded by allocating the total cost of
     acquiring mortgage loans to the mortgage servicing rights and the loans
     (without the mortgage servicing rights) based on their relative fair
     values.

          NVRFS measures the impairment of the mortgage servicing rights based
     on their current fair value. Current fair value is determined through the
     discounted present value of estimated future net servicing cashflows using
     a risk-based discount rate and assumptions based upon market estimates for
     future servicing revenues and expenses (including prepayment expectations,
     servicing costs, default rates and interest earnings on escrows). For the
     purposes of evaluating and measuring impairment of the mortgage servicing
     rights, they are stratified using the predominant risk characteristic of
     the underlying mortgage loans. NVRFS has determined that the predominant
     risk characteristic of the underlying mortgage loans is interest rate.
     Impairment, and subsequent changes in measurement of impairment, of any
     individual stratum is recognized through a valuation allowance for that
     stratum. The mortgage servicing rights are amortized to general and
     administrative expense in proportion to, and over the period of, the
     estimated net servicing income.

     REORGANIZATION VALUE IN EXCESS OF AMOUNTS ALLOCABLE TO IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS

          Reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to identifiable
     assets is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years.
     Accumulated amortization as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $4,658 and
     $3,570, respectively. Determination of any impairment losses related to
     this intangible asset is based on consideration of projected undiscounted
     cash flows.

     MORTGAGE SERVICING

          Trust funds of mortgagors on deposit in special bank accounts in
     connection with serviced mortgage loans are not included in the
     accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The amount of such trust funds as
     of December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $4,899 and $6,859, respectively.
     Servicing fees are recognized upon receipt of cash payments.

     GAIN ON SALES OF MORTGAGE LOANS
 
          Gains on sales of mortgage loans are recorded at the time of funding
     by the investor as the difference between the sale proceeds and NVRFS's
     cost (including adjustments, if any, to value loans at the lower of cost or
     market) as adjusted for loan origination fees, direct loan origination
     costs and adjustment to the gain or loss recognized in an amount measured
     by the relative fair value of the mortgage servicing rights related to such
     loans.

     LOAN ORIGINATION FEES

          Loan origination fees offset by direct loan origination costs are
     deferred and recognized either upon the sale of the loan or amortized as an
     adjustment of yield over the life of the loan if held for investment.


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)
 
     FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

          Management believes that insignificant differences exist between the
     carrying value and fair value of NVRFS's financial instruments except as
     otherwise noted in note 10 to the financial statements. As discussed in
     Note 4, NVRFS has guaranteed the 11% Senior Notes due 2003 of NVR.
     Management believes that it is not practical to estimate the fair value of
     such guarantee.


2.   LIMITED-PURPOSE FINANCING SUBSIDIARY

     The Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary was organized to facilitate the
financing of long-term mortgage loans on homes sold by Ryan Homes, Inc., the
predecessor to NVR, and its subsidiaries and affiliates through issuing bonds
collateralized by GNMA, FNMA and/or FHLMC mortgage-backed securities. NVR
Mortgage Finance, Inc. ("NVR Finance"), a subsidiary of NVRFS, acts as servicing
agent for mortgage loans backing certain of the mortgage-backed securities and
receives a normal servicing fee. There have been no bonds issued since 1988.


3.   NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND CERTAIN CONCENTRATIONS

     NVRFS is primarily a national mortgage banking operation that provides
financing to residential mortgage customers and also includes a limited-purpose
financing subsidiary as described in note 2 above. NVRFS sells all of the
mortgage loans it closes into the secondary markets. During 1997, NVR sold the
remaining portion of its core mortgage servicing portfolio, and intends to sell
future originated mortgage servicing rights on a flow basis. A significant
portion of the Company's mortgage operations are conducted in the Washington,
D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland metropolitan areas. Although NVR's mortgage banking
operations provide financing to a substantial portion of NVR's homebuilding
customers, NVR's homebuilding customers accounted for only 43% of the dollar
amount of loans closed in 1997.

4.   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     NVRFS loan closing activity includes mortgage loans to buyers of homes
built by a homebuilding subsidiary of NVR; and in connection therewith, NVRFS
typically collects a 1% origination fee. The amount of such loans was $634,346,
$558,629 and $453,929 during the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.

     Certain general and administrative expenses incurred by NVR were allocated
to its subsidiaries, including NVRFS. NVRFS was allocated general and
administrative expenses of $2,400 in each of the years ended December 31, 1997,
1996 and 1995.

     The Senior Notes, issued by NVR on September 30,1993, are secured by a
first priority pledge of the capital stock of NVRFS; NVR Homes, Inc. ("Homes");
Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("Fox Ridge"); and RVN, Inc. ("RVN"). The Senior Notes are
also guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by NVRFS, RVN, Homes and Fox Ridge
provided, however, that the guarantee by Homes is subordinated up to $60,000 of
senior bank indebtedness.


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

5.   CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, NVRFS had restricted cash of $3,723 and
$2,103, respectively,  which includes mortgagor tax, insurance, completion
escrows and other amounts collected at closing which relate to mortgage loans
held for sale.


6.   MORTGAGE LOANS HELD FOR SALE

     Mortgage loans held for sale consist of first mortgage loans on residential
property which are in the process of being pooled into mortgage-backed
securities or sold to private investors.  Premiums (discounts) adjusting the
principal balance of mortgage loans consist of the following items:

 
 
7.    NOTES PAYABLE



(a)  The mortgage warehouse facility (the "Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit")
currently has a borrowing limit of $105,000. The interest rate under the
Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit is either: (i) the federal funds rate plus
either 1.35% or 1.5% depending on the type of collateral, or (ii) 1.5% to the
extent that NVR Finance provides compensating balances. The weighted average
interest rates for amounts outstanding under the facility were 5.4% and 3.6%
during 1997 and 1996, respectively. The Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit is
collateralized primarily by mortgage loans and gestation mortgage-backed
securities. The Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit agreement is an annually
renewable facility and currently expires in June 1999.

     The Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit agreement includes, among other
items, restrictions on NVR Finance incurring additional borrowings and making
intercompany dividends and tax payments.  In addition, NVR Finance is required
to maintain a minimum net worth.
 
     In-transit items represent closed loans for which the related funding draft
has not yet been presented to the agent bank for payment which will result in
amounts outstanding under the Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit.


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

(b)  NVR Finance from time to time enters into various gestation and repurchase
agreements. NVR Finance currently has available an aggregate of $145,000 of
borrowing capacity in such uncommitted and committed facilities. Amounts
outstanding thereunder accrue interest at various rates tied to the federal
funds rate and are collateralized by gestation mortgage-backed securities and
whole loans. The uncommitted and committed facilities generally require NVR
Finance to, among other items, maintain a minimum net worth and limit its level
of liabilities in relation to its net worth. The weighted average interest rates
for amounts outstanding under the uncommitted and committed facilities were 6.8%
and 6.1% during 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     Information related to the uncommitted and committed facilities during 1997
and 1996 is as follows:



(c)  NVRFS entered into a subordinated demand revolving credit borrowing
facility with NVR. This indebtedness is subordinated in right of payment to the
Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit. The maximum amount available under this
facility is $75,000, and it accrues interest at the monthly short-term
applicable Federal Rate published monthly by the Internal Revenue Service.

8.   BONDS PAYABLE AND MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES

     Bonds payable at December 31 consist of the following series of bonds
issued by the indicated Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary and collateralized
by mortgage-backed securities:


 
    Principal and interest payments on the mortgage-backed securities are used
tr make the quarterly payments on the bonds payable.  In addition, prepayments
of the underlying mortgage-backed securities are passed through as repayments of
the bonds payable so that the bonds payable may be fully paid prior to their
stated maturities.


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)
 
     The Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary may also be required under certain
circumstances to pledge, as additional collateral, certain reserve amounts for
each series of bonds.  These amounts may be used by the trustee for the payment
of interest on the bonds to the extent cash is not otherwise available.  The
obligation of the Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary to establish reserve
amounts may be satisfied by either cash or letters of credit.  There were no
such letters of credit or cash pledged as of December 31, 1997 and 1996.  The
bonds payable are not guaranteed by NVRFS or any of its subsidiaries other than
the issuing Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary.
 
     The mortgage-backed securities and the reserve amounts which constitute the
collateral for the bonds of a series are held by the trustee for the benefit of
the bondholders.  The fair value of mortgage-backed securities at December 31,
1997 and 1996 was $21,546 and $40,044, respectively.  Gross unrealized holding
gains related to the mortgage-backed securities were $1,536 and $2,750 at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  There were no gross unrealized
holding losses related to the mortgage-back securities at the same respective
dates.  The specific collateral pledged to secure a particular series is not
available as collateral for any other series.  In addition, the Limited-Purpose
Financing Subsidiary may, under certain circumstances, redeem certain series of
bonds.

     The weighted average portfolio yield on mortgage-backed securities was 9.1%
and 8.9% at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  During 1997, NVR sold, at
a premium, MBS totaling $15,126, the proceeds of which were used to redeem in
full the related outstanding Bonds, which totaled $14,074.  The sales of the MBS
resulted in a pre-tax gain of $590, which was substantially offset by a pre-tax
loss on the related Bonds of $552.  During 1996, NVR sold, at a premium, MBS
totaling $45,835, the proceeds of which were used to redeem in full the related
outstanding Bonds which totaled $44,518.  The sales of the MBS resulted in a
pre-tax gain of $2,077, which was partially offset by a pre-tax loss on the
related redemptions of the Bonds of $1,586.
 
     Funds held by trustee represent cash deposited with the trustee for the
exclusive use of payment of principal and interest on the bonds payable.

9.   GAIN ON SALES OF MORTGAGE LOANS

     Gain on sales of mortgage loans is comprised of the following items:




 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

10.  MORTGAGE LOAN SERVICING PORTFOLIO

     At December 31, 1997 and 1996, NVRFS was servicing approximately 2,947 and
9,200 mortgage loans for various investors with aggregate balances of
approximately $224,000 and $579,000, respectively.
 
     At December 31, 1997, NVRFS had capitalized mortgage servicing rights of
$2,220 which related to approximately $175 million of the aggregate $224 million
in loans serviced.  The mortgage servicing rights associated with the remaining
$49 million in loans serviced are not subject to capitalization because the
loans were originated and sold prior to NVRFS's adoption of SFAS No. 122 on
January 1, 1995.  At December 31, 1996, NVRFS had capitalized purchased mortgage
servicing rights of $6,309.
 
     NVRFS assesses the fair value of the capitalized mortgage servicing rights
by stratifying the underlying loans by interest rate.  The fair value of the
mortgage servicing rights is then determined through the discounted present
value of estimated future net servicing cashflows using a risk based discount
rate, and assumptions based upon market estimates for future servicing revenues
and expenses (including prepayment expectations, servicing costs, default rates,
and interest earnings on escrows).  The fair value of the capitalized mortgage
servicing rights was $2,471 and $7,563 at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.  The fair value of the mortgage servicing rights not subject to
capitalization was $490 and $650 at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
Based on management's estimate of the fair value of the designated strata, no
impairment valuation allowance is necessary.
 
     NVRFS amortizes the capitalized mortgage servicing rights in proportion to,
and over the period of, the estimated net servicing income.  The amortization
for the years ending December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 was $506, $1,627 and
$2,665, respectively.
 
     As of December 31, 1997, NVRFS had aggregate fidelity bond and errors and
omissions insurance coverage of $1,275.

11.  INCOME TAXES
 
     NVRFS is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of NVR and,
therefore, has entered into a tax allocation agreement with NVR.  According to
this agreement, NVRFS will make federal income tax payments to NVR in an amount
equal to its share of the net federal income tax obligation of the entire NVR
consolidated tax group based on the amount of the tax obligation of NVRFS on a
"separate return" basis.  In the event NVRFS incurs a tax loss on a "separate
return" basis for any year, NVRFS generally will be compensated for the tax
effects of such tax loss through a reimbursement of such loss from NVR.


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

 
 
     Deferred income taxes on NVRFS' consolidated balance sheets are comprised
of the following:



     Deferred tax assets arise principally as a result of various reserves
required for financial reporting purposes which are not currently deductible for
tax return purposes.  Deferred tax liabilities arise principally as a result of
the capitalization of mortgage servicing rights for financial reporting
purposes.
 
     A reconciliation of income tax expense in the accompanying statement of
income to the amount computed by applying the statutory Federal income tax rate
to income before income taxes and discontinued operations is as follows:




 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

12.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     NVRFS is committed under several non-cancelable operating leases involving
office space and equipment.  Future minimum lease payments under these operating
leases as of December 31, 1997, are as follows:



     Total rent expense incurred under operating leases was $1,383, $1,353 and
$1,579 for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

     NVRFS is required to enter into collateral arrangements with various state
regulatory agencies in order to conduct its mortgage lending operations.  NVRFS
has approximately $1,621 of contingent obligations under such agreements as of
December 31, 1997.  NVRFS believes it will fulfill its obligation under the
contracts and does not anticipate any losses under these bond arrangements.

13.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK

     In the normal course of business, NVRFS enters into contractual commitments
involving financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk.  These financial
instruments include commitments to extend mortgage loans to customers and
forward contracts to sell mortgage-backed securities to broker/dealers.  These
instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and market rate risk
in excess of the amount recognized in the accompanying balance sheets.

     NVRFS's exposure to credit loss, in the event of nonperformance by the
customers, is represented by the contractual amount of the commitment for the
mortgage loans.  NVRFS uses the same credit policies in making commitments as it
does for on-balance-sheet mortgage loans.

     A summary of off-balance-sheet financial instruments is as follows:



     NVRFS enters into contractual commitments to extend credit to buyers of
single family homes with fixed expiration dates.  The commitments become
effective when the borrowers "lock-in" a specified interest rate within
timeframes established by NVRFS.  All mortgagors are evaluated for credit
worthiness prior to the extension of the commitment.  Market risk arises if
interest rates move adversely between the


 
                         NVR FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

time of the "lock-in" of rates by the borrower and sale date to a broker/dealer.
This market risk is managed by entering into forward contracts as discussed
below.

     Since certain of the commitments are expected to expire without a loan
closing, the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash
requirements.  Collateral for loans granted is obtained by a first mortgage
security interest in real estate whose appraised values exceed the contractual
amount of the commitment.

     NVRFS enters into optional and mandatory forward delivery contracts to sell
mortgage-backed securities at specified prices and dates to broker/dealers.
NVRFS has established policies governing which broker/dealers can be used to
conduct these activities.  Credit risk associated with forward contracts is
limited to the replacement cost of those forward contracts in a gain position,
and at December 31, 1997 and 1996, there were no such positions.  There were no
counterparty default losses on forward contracts in 1997, 1996, or 1995.  Market
risk with respect to forward contracts arises from changes in the value of
contractual positions due to fluctuations in interest rates.  NVRFS limits its
exposure to market risk by monitoring differences between the total of
commitments to customers and loans held for sale and forward contracts with
broker/dealers.  In the event NVRFS has forward delivery contract commitments in
excess of available mortgage-backed securities, NVRFS completes the transaction
by either paying or receiving a fee to/from the broker/dealer equal to the
increase/decrease in the market value of the forward contract.  NVRFS has no
market risk associated with optional delivery contracts because NVRFS has the
right but not the obligation to deliver mortgage backed securities to
broker/dealers under these contracts.


 
                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                         ----------------------------

The Board of Directors and Shareholder
NVR Homes, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVR Homes, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholder's equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997.  These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NVR Homes, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.


KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 28, 1998


 
                                NVR HOMES, INC.
                          Consolidated Balance Sheets
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements


 
                                NVR HOMES, INC.
                       Consolidated Statements of Income
                            (dollars in thousands)



                                NVR HOMES, INC.
                Consolidated Statements of Shareholder's Equity
                            (dollars in thousands)


 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                                NVR HOMES, INC.
                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                             (dollars in thousands)


                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                                NVR Homes, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                             (dollars in thousands)


1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     BASIS OF PRESENTATION

          The accompanying consolidated financial statements include
     consolidated financial information for NVR Homes, Inc. ("Homes" or the
     "Company") and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and for
     the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995. Homes is a wholly-owned
     subsidiary of NVR, Inc. ("NVR"). All significant intercompany transactions
     have been eliminated in consolidation.

     USE OF ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
     accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
     assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
     disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
     financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
     during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
     estimates.
 
     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
          Cash and cash equivalents includes short-term investments with
     original maturities of three months or less.
 
     HOMEBUILDING INVENTORY

          Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value. Cost of lots
     and completed and uncompleted housing units represent the accumulated
     actual cost thereof. Field construction supervisors' salaries and related
     direct overhead expenses are included in inventory costs. Interest costs
     are not capitalized into inventory. Upon settlement, the cost of the units
     is expensed on a specific identification basis. Cost of manufacturing
     materials is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

     REORGANIZATION VALUE IN EXCESS OF AMOUNTS ALLOCABLE TO IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS

          Reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to identifiable
     assets is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years.
     Accumulated amortization as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $29,831 and
     $23,378, respectively. Determination of any impairment losses related to
     this intangible asset is based on consideration of projected undiscounted
     cash flows.

     GOODWILL

          The excess of amounts paid for business acquisitions over the net fair
     value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed ("Goodwill") is
     amortized using the straight line method over ten years, and originated
     from the October 31, 1997 acquisition of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. (See Note
     2.) Accumulated amortization was $182 at December 31, 1997. Determination
     of any impairment losses related to this intangible asset is based on
     consideration of projected undiscounted cash flows.


 
                                NVR Homes, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                             (dollars in thousands)

 
     HOMEBUILDING REVENUES

          Homes builds light-frame, low-rise residences which generally are
     produced on a pre-sold basis for the ultimate customer. Revenues are
     recognized at the time units are completed and title passes to the
     customer. Additionally, to a significantly lesser degree, Homes sells house
     packages to builder-dealers and other homebuilders and recognizes revenue
     at the time the product is delivered to the builder-dealer or homebuilder.
 
     DEPRECIATION
 
          Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of the assets
     using the straight-line method. Amortization of capital lease assets is
     included in depreciation expense.
 
     INCOME TAXES

          Homes is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of NVR
     and therefore has entered into a tax allocation agreement with NVR.
     According to this agreement, Homes will generally make federal income tax
     payments to NVR in an amount equal to its share of the net federal income
     tax obligation of the entire NVR consolidated tax group based upon the
     amount of the tax obligation of Homes on a "separate return" basis. Also,
     in the event Homes incurs a tax loss on a "separate return" basis for any
     year, Homes will generally be compensated for the tax effects of such tax
     loss through payments received from others in the consolidated group.

          Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of "temporary differences"
     between the amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
     purposes and such amounts as measured by enacted tax rules and regulations.

     FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

          Management believes that insignificant differences exist between the
     carrying value and fair value of Homes' financial instruments. Homes and
     Fox Ridge have guaranteed the 11% Senior Notes due 2003 ("Senior Notes") of
     NVR. Management believes that it is not practical to estimate the fair
     value of such guarantee.

     ROYALTY FEES

          Homes incurs royalty expenses for use of the Ryan Homes and NVHomes
     tradenames based upon a percentage of settlement revenues. The royalty
     expenses are included on the consolidated statement of income as a
     component of selling, general and administrative expenses.

     ADOPTION OF ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE

          During 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
     Standards No. 125, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
     Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities. Such adoption did not have a
     material impact on the Company's financial condition or results of
     operations.


 
                                NVR Homes, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                             (dollars in thousands)


2.   ACQUISITION

     NVR Fox Ridge, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Homes, was formed during
1997 to purchase substantially all of the assets and assume certain liabilities
of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("FRH"), a leading homebuilder in Nashville, Tennessee.
NVR Fox Ridge, Inc. was renamed Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("Fox Ridge") in November,
1997. To consummate the purchase on October 31, 1997, Fox Ridge assumed
approximately $15,160 of FRH's liabilities, paid FRH $14,250 in cash at
settlement on October 31, 1997, and issued a note payable for the remaining
$4,750 purchase price. The note bears interest at 200 basis points above the
federal funds target rate, and will be paid in three annual installments on
October 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, including accrued interest.

     Fox Ridge accounted for this acquisition under the purchase method, and the
operations of the acquired business have been included in Home's consolidated
statements of income since its acquisition.  Goodwill that was generated
pursuant to the purchase transaction is being amortized using the straight line
method over 10 years.

     The following unaudited pro forma summary of combined operations was
prepared to illustrate the estimated effects of the 1997 acquisition of FRH as
if such acquisition had occurred on the first day of the respective periods
presented.



3.   NATURE OF OPERATIONS, AND CERTAIN CONCENTRATIONS

     Homes is one of the largest homebuilders in the United States and in the
Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland metropolitan area, where Homes derived
approximately 66% of its 1997 homebuilding revenues.  The Company primarily
constructs and sells single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium
buildings in three distinct product lines, through two divisions and one wholly
owned subsidiary: Ryan Homes, NVHomes and Fox Ridge.  Ryan Homes builds
moderately priced homes in sixteen metropolitan areas located in Maryland,
Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, New
Jersey, Delaware and Tennessee, and markets its homes primarily to first-time
buyers.  NVHomes builds homes largely in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area,
and markets its homes primarily to move-up buyers.  Fox Ridge builds moderately
priced homes in Tennessee and also markets its homes primarily to first-time
buyers.

4.   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     During 1997, 1996, and 1995, Homes purchased, at market prices, developed
lots from a company that is controlled by a member of the board of directors.
Those purchases totaled $8,066, $6,612, and $8,877 during 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively, and Homes expects to purchase the remaining lots under contract at
December 31, 1997 over the next 18 to 24 months for an aggregate purchase price
of approximately $32,000.


 
                                NVR Homes, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                             (dollars in thousands)
 
  
      During the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, Homes incurred $21,687
 and $4,711, respectively, of royalty expenses for the use of the Ryan Homes and
NVHomes tradenames (the "Tradenames").  The Tradenames are owned by RVN, Inc.
("RVN"), a subsidiary of NVR.  Homes had a $1,880 and $1,441 royalty expense
payable due to RVN at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
     As of December 31, 1997 and 1996, Homes had $32,948 and $26,946,
respectively, of non-interest bearing intercompany advances to NVR due on
demand, offset by a $133,460 note payable to NVR due in 2003 which accrues
interest at a rate of 11%.  Also, at December 31, 1997 and 1996, Homes had $69
and $(59), respectively, of non-interest bearing intercompany advances due to
(from) NVR Financial Services, Inc. ("NVRFS"), a subsidiary of NVR.
 
     Certain selling, general and administrative expenses incurred by NVR were
allocated to its subsidiaries, including Homes.  Homes was allocated $17,158,
$7,625 and $8,308 in selling, general and administrative expenses during the
years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
     The Senior Notes, issued by NVR on September 30, 1993, are secured by a
first priority pledge of the capital stock of Homes; Fox Ridge; NVR Financial
Services, Inc. ("NVRFS"); and RVN.  The Senior Notes are also guaranteed on a
senior unsecured basis by Homes, Fox Ridge, RVN and NVRFS provided, however,
that the guarantee by Homes is subordinated to up to $60,000 of Senior Bank
Indebtedness.


5.   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

     Property, plant and equipment, which are stated at cost, consist of the
following:



     The property, plant and equipment listed above is collateral for various
debt of Homes as more fully discussed in note 6.


 
                                NVR Homes, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                             (dollars in thousands)


6.   DEBT
 
     Debt consists of the following:



(a)  On September 30,1993, Homes as borrower and NVR as guarantor entered into a
working capital revolving credit agreement (the "Working Capital Revolving
Credit" or "Senior Bank Indebtedness"). This facility currently provides for
unsecured borrowings up to $60,000, subject to certain borrowing base
limitations, and is generally available to fund working capital needs of Homes
and for certain payments of NVR. Up to approximately $24,000 of this facility is
currently available for issuance in the form of letters of credit of which
$6,059 and $5,345 were issued at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The
Working Capital Revolving Credit is for a three year period ending May 31, 2000
and outstanding amounts bear interest, at the election of the Company, at (i)
the base rate of interest announced by the facility agent or (ii) 2.0% above the
Eurodollar rate. The weighted average interest rates for amounts outstanding
under the facility were 8.1% and 8.0% during 1997 and 1996, respectively. NVR's
guarantee is a guarantee of collection only and is unsecured.

     The Working Capital Revolving Credit agreement contains numerous operating
and financial covenants, including required levels of net worth, fixed charge
coverage ratios, and several other covenants related to the construction
operations of Homes. In addition, the Working Capital Revolving Credit agreement
contains restrictions on the ability of Homes and, in certain cases, NVR to,
among other things, incur debt and make investments.
 
     The Working Capital Revolving Credit agreement restricts substantially all
dividends and intercompany loans from Homes to NVR. Dividends and intercompany
loans from Homes to NVR are permitted by the Working Capital Revolving Credit
agreement up to the amount of any capital contributions made by NVR subsequent
to the Effective Date, as long as NVR is in compliance with certain covenants in
the agreement.

(b)  Other notes payable as of December 31, 1997 is principally comprised of a
$4,750 note payable issued in connection with the acquisition of Fox Ridge (see
Note 2). The weighted average interest rate was 7.5% during 1997.

(c)  The capital lease and financing obligations and mortgages have either fixed
or variable interest rates ranging from 3.0% to 13.0% and are collateralized by
land, buildings and equipment with a net book value of $5,169 and $5,470 at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     The following schedule provides future minimum lease payments under all
financing and capital leases together with the present value as of December 31,
1997:


 
                                NVR Homes, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                             (dollars in thousands)


 
 
Maturities with respect to notes payable and other term debt as of December 31,
1997 are as follows:



7.   INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

 

Deferred income taxes on Homes' consolidated balance sheets are comprised of the
following:
 


     Deferred tax assets arise principally as a result of various reserves
required for financial reporting purposes which are not currently deductible for
tax return purposes in addition to higher tax basis inventory resulting from
uniform capitalization and interest capitalization required for tax purposes but
not 


 
                                NVR Homes, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                             (dollars in thousands)


for financial reporting. Deferred tax liabilities arise principally as a result
of the goodwill that originated from the acquisition of Fox Ridge having a
higher basis for financial reporting purposes.

     Management believes the Company will have sufficient available carry-backs
and future taxable income to make it more likely than not that the net deferred
tax asset will be realized. Taxable income was $34,300, $49,457, and $37,197 for
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

     Tax benefits realized in subsequent periods related to unrecognized
deferred tax assets as of September 30, 1993 will be recorded as a reduction of
reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to identifiable assets. For
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, $0, $7,000 and $0,
respectively, of such benefits were realized. Unrecognized deferred tax assets
which arose as of September 30, 1993 amounted to $2,852 as of December 31, 1997
and 1996.
 
     A reconciliation of income tax expense in the accompanying consolidated
statements of income to the amount computed by applying the statutory Federal
income tax rate to income before income taxes is as follows:




 
                                NVR Homes, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                             (dollars in thousands)


8.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     Homes is committed under several non-cancelable operating leases involving
office space, manufacturing facilities and equipment. Future minimum lease
payments under these operating leases as of December 31, 1997 are as follows:



     Total rent expense incurred under operating leases was approximately
$1,703, $1,493 and $1,518 for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.
 
     During the ordinary course of operating its business, Homes is required to
enter into bond or letter of credit arrangements with local municipalities,
government agencies, or land developers to collateralize its obligations under
various contracts. Homes had approximately $11,434 of contingent obligations
under such agreements as of December 31, 1997. Homes believes it will fulfill
its obligations under the related contracts and does not anticipate any losses
under these bonds or letters of credit.
 
     Homes is also involved in litigation arising from the normal course of
business.  In the opinion of management, and based on advice of legal counsel,
this litigation will not have any material adverse effect on the financial
position or results of operations of Homes.

     At December 31, 1997, Homes has restricted cash of $1,272, representing
deposits on homes under sales contracts in certain markets where the Company
operates.


 
                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                         ----------------------------

The Board of Directors and Shareholder
Fox Ridge Homes, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. as of
December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related statements of income, shareholder's
equity, and cash flows for the two months ended December 31, 1997, the ten
months ended October 31, 1997 and the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. as of
December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the results of its operations and its cash flows
for the two months ended December 31, 1997, the ten months ended October 31,
1997, and the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in note 1 to the financial statements, certain assets of the
Predecessor were acquired and certain liabilities of the Predecessor were
assumed by Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. on October 31, 1997.  Accordingly, Fox Ridge
Homes, Inc. accounted for the transaction as a purchase pursuant to the
requirements of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16, "Business
Combinations".  As a result, the financial statements for periods subsequent to
October 31, 1997 are not comparable to the financial statements for periods
prior to this date.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 28, 1998


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                                 Balance Sheets
                             (dollars in thousands)



*Period is prior to the date that the Company was acquired by NVR, Inc.  (see
note 1).

                       See notes to financial statements.


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                              STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                             (dollars in thousands)



*Periods are prior to the date that the Company was acquired by NVR, Inc.  (see
note 1).

                       See notes to financial statements.


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                      Statements of Shareholder's Equity
                            (dollars in thousands)


                                                        
                                                                 
*Periods are prior to the date that the Company was acquired by NVR, Inc.  (see
note 1).

                       See notes to financial statements.


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                            Statements of Cash Flows
                             (dollars in thousands)   



* Periods are prior to the date that the Company was acquired by NVR, Inc. (see
note 1).

                       See notes to financial statements.


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            (dollars in thousands)


1.   ACQUISITION

     NVR Fox Ridge, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR Homes Inc. ("Homes"),
itself wholly owned by NVR, Inc. ("NVR"), was formed during 1997 to purchase
substantially all of the assets and assume certain liabilities (the "Purchase
Transaction") of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("FRH" or the "Predecessor"), a home
builder in Nashville, Tennessee.  NVR Fox Ridge, Inc. was renamed Fox Ridge
Homes, Inc. ("Fox Ridge" or the "Successor") in November, 1997.  To consummate
the purchase on October 31, 1997 (the "Purchase Date"), Fox Ridge assumed
approximately $15,160 of FRH's liabilities, paid FRH $14,250 in cash at
settlement on October 31, 1997, and issued a note payable for the remaining
$4,750 purchase price.  The note bears interest at 200 basis points above the
federal funds target rate, and will be paid in three annual installments on
October 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, including accrued interest.

     Fox Ridge accounted for this acquisition using the purchase method, which
resulted in a new basis of accounting for the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed at the Purchase Date.  As a result, the financial statements for periods
subsequent to the Purchase Date are not comparable to the financial statements
for periods prior to this date.  Excess of amounts paid for the business
acquisition over the net fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed ("Goodwill") generated pursuant to the Purchase Transaction is being
amortized using the straight line method over 10 years.

     The following unaudited pro forma summary of combined operations was
prepared to illustrate the estimated effects of the 1997 acquisition of FRH as
if such acquisition had occurred on the first day of the respective periods
presented.



2.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
     The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of the Successor
for the two months ended December 31, 1997, and the accounts of the Predecessor
for the ten months ended October 31, 1997 and the years ended December 31, 1996
and 1995.  Reference to the "Company" refers to the Predecessor prior to the
Purchase Date and to the Successor subsequent to the Purchase date unless the
context otherwise specifies.
 
     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
period presentation.
 
     USE OF ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           (dollars in thousands)   
 
     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
     Cash and cash equivalents includes short-term investments with original
maturities of three months or less.
 
     RESTRICTED CASH
 
     Restricted cash consists of the compensating balances the Company is
required to maintain with municipalities or county authorities for bond
arrangements.
 
     GOODWILL
 
     Goodwill is amortized using the straight line method over ten years, and
originated from the Purchase Transaction (see Note 1).  Accumulated amortization
was $182 at December 31, 1997.  Determination of any impairment loss related to
this intangible asset is based on consideration of projected undiscounted cash
flows.
 
     NEGATIVE GOODWILL
 
     Negative goodwill recorded at December 31, 1996 represents the excess of
net assets acquired over the purchase price in connection with a 1993 stock
purchase.  The negative goodwill was being amortized on a straight-line basis
over a period of 15 years.  Amortization for the ten months ended October 31,
1997 and for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 was $28, $33 and $33,
respectively.
 
     ADOPTION OF NEW ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE
 
     Fox Ridge adopted SFAS No. 125, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities during the year ended
December 31, 1997.  Such adoption did not have a material impact on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations.
 
     FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     Management believes that insignificant differences exist between the
carrying value and fair value of Fox Ridge's financial instruments.  As
discussed in Note 8, Fox Ridge has guaranteed the 11% Senior Notes ("Senior
Notes") due 2003 of NVR.  Management believes that it is not practical to
estimate the fair value of such guarantee.
 
     NON-COMPETE AGREEMENT
 
     The non-compete agreement was being amortized on a straight-line basis over
a period of five years, the length of the agreement.  Amortization expense for
the ten months ended October 31, 1997 and for the years ended December 31, 1996
and 1995 was $84, $100 and $100, respectively.
 
     HOMEBUILDING INVENTORY
 
     Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value.  Cost of lots and
completed and uncompleted housing units represent the accumulated actual cost
thereof.  Such costs include land, land improvements, property taxes and direct
construction costs.  Prior to the Purchase Date, interest costs were 


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           (dollars in thousands)   

capitalized into inventory. Subsequent to the Purchase Date, interest costs are
not capitalized into inventory. Upon settlement, the cost of the units is
expensed on a specific identification basis.
 
     REVENUES
 
     Fox Ridge builds light-frame, low-rise residences which generally are
produced on a pre-sold basis for the ultimate customer.  Revenues are recognized
at the time units are completed and title passes to the customer.
 
     PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 
     Property and equipment is stated at cost.  Depreciation is provided using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of 5 years for
furniture and equipment, 3 years for motor vehicles, and 2 years for model house
furnishings, or the lease term if shorter.
 
     INCOME TAXES
 
     Subsequent to the Purchase Date, Fox Ridge is included in the consolidated
federal income tax return of NVR and therefore has entered into a tax allocation
agreement with NVR.  According to this agreement, Fox Ridge will generally make
federal income tax payments to NVR in an amount equal to its share of the net
federal income tax obligation of the entire NVR consolidated tax group based
upon the amount of the tax obligation of Fox Ridge on a "separate return" basis.
Also, in the event Fox Ridge incurs a tax loss on a "separate return" basis for
any year, Fox Ridge will generally be compensated for the tax effects of such
tax loss through payments received from others in the consolidated group.
 
     Prior to the Purchase Date, the Company elected to be taxed as an S
Corporation under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.  As an S
Corporation, any federal tax liability or refund receivable related to income or
loss generated during the year is the responsibility of the individual
shareholders of the Company.  State income taxes are payable directly by the
Company.
 
     Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of "temporary differences" between
the amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and such
amounts as measured by enacted tax rules and regulations.

3.   NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND CERTAIN CONCENTRATIONS

     The Company is one of the largest homebuilders in the Nashville, Tennessee
metropolitan area, where the Company derived all of its 1997 homebuilding
revenues.  The Company primarily constructs and sells moderately priced, single-
family detached homes and townhomes, and markets its homes primarily to first-
time buyers.


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            (dollars in thousands)


4.   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

     Property and equipment, which are stated at cost, consist of the following:

 
 

5.   INVENTORY
 
     Inventory consists of the following:

                                                    
                                                            
     During 1995, a portion of the Company's inventory with a book value of $41
was condemned. The Company received $250 as proceeds resulting in a gain of $209
included in the accompanying 1995 statement of income.

     As of December 31, 1996, there was $228 of interest capitalized as
inventory.                                                  
                                                            

6.   INVESTMENT IN FRP, LP

     On May 17, 1994, the Company invested $140 for a 66 2/3% interest in a
limited partnership, FRP, LP (the Partnership).  The Partnership purchased a
residential development consisting of 122 lots from an unrelated party.  At
December 31, 1997, the Company has an option to buy the remaining 17 lots from
the Partnership at $22 per lot.  During the two months ended December 31, 1997,
the ten months ended October 31, 1997 and the years ended December 31, 1996 and
1995, the Company purchased 3 lots for approximately $66; 21 lots for
approximately $327; 37 lots for approximately $564; and 30 lots for
approximately $507, respectively.  The Company, as a limited partner, does not
have control of the business due to the general partner (FRP, Inc.) having
control of the management of the partnership and the only authority to bind the
partnership.  Profits are allocated according to the partners' capital
contribution ratios:  the Company:  66 2/3% and FRP, Inc.:  33 1/3%.  The
Company accounts for the investment using the equity method of accounting.  The
net income for the Partnership for the two months ended December 31, 1997, the
ten months ended October 31, 1997 and for the years ended December 31, 1996 and
1995 was $25, $76, $116 and $180, respectively.  The Company's portion of that
income was $17, $51, $77 and $120, respectively.  The Partnership paid dividends
of $175 in 1997.  The Company's portion of those 


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            (dollars in thousands)


dividends was $117. Also, at December 31, 1996, the Company had a receivable
from FRP, LP in the amount of $78.
 
     Unaudited condensed balance sheets of the Partnership at December 31, 1997
and 1996 and the respective statements of income for the two months ended
December 31, 1997, the ten months ended October 31, 1997 and the years ended
December 31, 1996 and 1995 follow:

 
 
 


7.   BENEFIT PLAN

     The Company sponsors a 401(K) plan for all employees with at least one year
of service.  Contributions to the plan by the Company are discretionary.
Participants vest in the Company's contributions at 25% for each year of service
with 100% vesting after four years.  The Company contributed $30, $131, $199 and
$182 for the two months ended December 31, 1997, the ten months ended October
31, 1997 and the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            (dollars in thousands)


8.   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     During the ten months ended October 31, 1997, the Predecessor purchased, at
market prices, developed lots from companies controlled by a member of the
Predecessor's board of directors.  Those purchases totaled $1,260.  Of the
total, 50 lots were obtained by issuing a $900 note payable (see note 10); the
remaining 20 lots were purchased with $360 in cash.  In addition, certain lots
were acquired during the ten months ended October 31, 1997 and the years ended
December 31, 1996 and 1995 from FRP, LP (see note 6).  Certain of the
Predecessor's board of directors and employees hold controlling equity interests
in FRP, LP.
 
     As of December 31, 1997, Fox Ridge had $8,012 of interest bearing
intercompany advances to Homes due on demand to fund its working capital needs.
The advances bear interest at 2.0% above the Eurodollar rate.
 
     The Senior Notes, issued by NVR on September 30, 1993, are secured by a
first priority pledge of the capital stock of Fox Ridge; Homes; NVR Financial
Services, Inc. ("NVRFS"); and RVN, Inc. ("RVN").  The Senior Notes are also
guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Fox Ridge, Homes, RVN and NVRFS
provided, however, that the guarantee by Homes is subordinated to up to $60,000
of Senior Bank Indebtedness.

     In 1996 the Company loaned $475 to a limited liability corporation, Valley
Brooke, LLC (the Corporation), an entity in whom certain members of the
Predecessor's board of directors and certain employees of the Predecessor had a
financial interest.  The Corporation purchased approximately 194 acres of
undeveloped land and an option on an adjoining 30 acres of land from an
unrelated party for approximately $2 million.  This receivable was not part of
the Purchase Transaction.

9.   INCOME TAXES

     Prior to the Purchase Date, the Predecessor elected to be taxed as an S
Corporation under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.  As an S
Corporation, any federal tax liability or refund receivable related to income or
loss generated during the year was the responsibility of the individual
shareholders of the Predecessor.  Income tax expense incurred prior to the
Purchase Date was comprised solely of state income taxes and were payable
directly by the Predecessor.

     For the two months ended December 31, 1997, the Successor's income tax
expense (benefit) consists of the following:

 
 


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            (dollars in thousands)


     Deferred income taxes on the Successor's December 31, 1997 balance sheet is
 comprised of the following:
 


     Deferred tax assets arise principally as a result of inventory acquired in
the Purchase Transaction having a higher basis for tax return purposes than for
financial reporting purposes.  Similarly, deferred tax liabilities arise
principally as a result of goodwill originated from the Purchase Transaction
having a higher basis for financial reporting purposes than for tax return
purposes.
 
     A reconciliation of income tax expense in the accompanying statement of
income for the two months ended December 31, 1997 to the amount computed by
applying the statutory Federal income tax rate to income before income taxes is
as follows:

 

10.  DEBT
 
    Debt consists of the following:



(a)  The lot acquisition notes consist of two lot acquisition notes with an
aggregate face value of $900. Of the total, $270 bears interest at the prime
rate and is due in full in October 1998. The remaining $630 of principal
outstanding is interest free until October 1998 and then bears interest at the
current prime rate, adjusted every six months, and is due in various amounts
through 2001. The weighted average interest rate for the two months ended
December 31, 1997 for the interest-bearing portion of the debt was 7.5%.

(b)  The acquisition note was issued in connection with the Purchase Transaction
(see note 1). The acquisition note bears interest at 200 basis points above the
federal funds target rate, and will be paid in three annual installments on
October 31, 1998, 1999 and 2000, including accrued interest.


 
                             FOX RIDGE HOMES, INC.
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                            (dollars in thousands)


(c)  The construction loans were repaid on October 31, 1997 in connection with
     the Purchase Transaction (note 1).

11.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     Fox Ridge is committed under a non-cancelable operating lease involving
office space that expires in 1999. Total rent expense incurred under the
operating lease was approximately $14, $75, $84, and $74 for the two months
ended December 31, 1997, the ten months ended October 31, 1997, and the years
ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Future minimum lease payments
under these operating leases as of December 31, 1997 are as follows:



     During the ordinary course of operating its business, Fox Ridge is required
to enter into bond or letter of credit arrangements with local municipalities,
government agencies, or land developers to collateralize its obligations under
various contracts.  Fox Ridge had approximately $1,540 of such contingent
obligations under such agreements as of December 31, 1997.  Fox Ridge believes
it will fulfill its obligations under the related contracts and does not
anticipate any losses under these bonds or letters of credit.

     Fox Ridge is also involved in litigation arising from the normal course of
business.  In the opinion of management, and based on advice of legal counsel,
this litigation will not have any material adverse effect on the financial
position or results of operations of Fox Ridge.


 
                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                         ----------------------------


The Board of Directors and Shareholder
RVN, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying balance sheet of RVN, Inc. as of December 31,
1997 and 1996 and the related statements of income, shareholder's equity, and
cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1997 and the three months ended
December 31, 1996.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of RVN Inc. as of December 31,
1997 and 1996 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year
ended December 31, 1997 and the three months ended December 31, 1996, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 28, 1998


 
                                   RVN, INC.
                                Balance Sheets
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)




                                   RVN, INC.
                             Statements of Income
                            (dollars in thousands)



                       See notes to financial statements


 
                                   RVN, INC.
                      Statements of Shareholder's Equity
                            (dollars in thousands)



                                   RVN, INC.
                           Statements of Cash Flows
                            (dollars in thousands)
                                        


                      See notes to financial statements.


 
                                   RVN, INC.
                         Notes to Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

1.   BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The accompanying financial statements include financial information for
RVN, Inc. ("RVN" or the "Company") as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and for the
year ended December 31, 1997 and the three months ended December 31, 1996.  RVN
is a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR, Inc. ("NVR").

2.   NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND CERTAIN CONCENTRATIONS

     On October 1, 1996, NVR capitalized RVN, a Delaware holding company, with
$65 in cash and the Ryan Homes and NVHomes tradenames (the "Tradenames").  Under
a royalty agreement entered into on October 1, 1996 with NVR Homes, Inc.
(Homes), NVR's homebuilding subsidiary, RVN earns royalty fees based on a
percentage of settlement revenue for allowing Homes to use the Tradenames to
market homes.  RVN earns 100% of its revenue from Homes.

3.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     USE OF ESTIMATES IN THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
     accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
     assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
     disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
     financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
     during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
     estimates.

          CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
          Cash and cash equivalents includes short-term investments with
     original maturities of three months or less.

     INCOME TAXES

          RVN is included in the consolidated federal income tax return of NVR
     and therefore has entered into a tax allocation agreement with NVR.
     According to this agreement, RVN will generally make federal income tax
     payments to NVR in an amount equal to its share of the net federal income
     tax obligation of the entire NVR consolidated tax group based upon the
     amount of the tax obligation of RVN on a "separate return" basis. Also, in
     the event RVN incurs a tax loss on a "separate return" basis for any year,
     RVN will generally be compensated for the tax effects of such tax loss
     through payments received from others in the consolidated group.

     FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

          Management believes that insignificant differences exist between the
     carrying value and fair value of RVN's financial instruments. RVN has
     guaranteed the 11% Senior Notes due 2003 ("Senior Notes") of NVR.
     Management believes that it is not practical to estimate the fair value of
     such guarantee.


 
                                   RVN, INC.
                         Notes to Financial Statements
                            (dollars in thousands)

     ROYALTY FEES

          Royalty fees are recorded in the same period that the associated
     settlement revenue is recognized by Homes. Homes recognizes settlement
     revenue in the period when the construction process is complete and title
     passes to its customer.

4.   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
     During the year ended December 31, 1997 and the three months ended December
31, 1996, RVN earned $21,687 and $4,711, respectively, in royalty fees for
allowing Homes to use the Tradenames to market its homes.  RVN had a $1,880 and
$1,441 royalty receivable due from Homes at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.
 
     The Senior Notes, issued by NVR on September 30, 1993, are secured by a
first priority pledge of the capital stock of RVN, Homes, Fox Ridge Homes, Inc.
("Fox Ridge") and NVR Financial Services, Inc. ("NVRFS").  The Senior Notes are
also guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by RVN, Homes, Fox Ridge and NVRFS
provided, however, that the guarantee by Homes is subordinated to up to $60,000
of Senior Bank Indebtedness.

5.   INCOME TAXES

     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:




 
                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                         ----------------------------

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
NVR, Inc.:

Under date of January 28, 1998, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets
of NVR, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997 which are included
in the NVR, Inc. annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1997.  In connection
with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we have
also audited the related financial statement schedule included in the annual
report on Form 10-K.  The financial statement schedule is the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, the schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein.



KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 28, 1998


 
                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                                   NVR, INC.
                               (Parent Company)
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                                BALANCE SHEETS
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                  See notes to financial statement schedule.


 
                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (continued)
                                   NVR, INC.
                               (Parent Company)
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                             STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                            (dollars in thousands)




                  See notes to financial statement schedule.


 
                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (continued)

                                   NVR, INC.
                               (Parent Company)
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                      STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                            (dollars in thousands)



                  See notes to financial statement schedule.


 
                                                                      SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (continued)

                                   NVR, INC.
                               (Parent Company)
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                           STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                            (dollars in thousands)



                  See notes to financial statement schedule.


 
                                   NVR, INC.
                               (Parent Company)
            NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                            (dollars in thousands)


1.   DEBT AND GUARANTEES



(a)  On September 30, 1993, NVR, Inc. ("NVR" or the "Company") received gross
proceeds of $160,000 from the sale of its Senior Notes. The Senior Notes bear
interest at a rate of 11% per annum, payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 of each year and are due in 2003. The Senior Notes will be redeemable
at the option of NVR, in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 1,
1998 at redemption prices ranging from 105.5% of par in 1998 to par beginning in
2001.

     The Senior Notes are senior obligations of NVR and rank pari passu in right
of payment to all existing and future senior indebtedness of NVR and senior in
right of payment to all existing and future subordinated indebtedness of NVR.
The Senior Notes are secured by a first priority pledge of the capital stock of
NVR Homes, Inc. ("Homes"), Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("Fox Ridge"), NVR Financial
Services, Inc. ("NVRFS") and RVN, Inc. ("RVN"), (Homes, Fox Ridge, NVRFS, and
RVN collectively, the "Guarantors"). The Senior Notes also are guaranteed on a
senior, unsecured basis by the Guarantors; provided, however, that the guarantee
by Homes is subordinated to up to $60,000 of Senior Bank Indebtedness. During
the year ended December 31, 1995, NVR purchased $15,000 in principal amount of
its Senior Notes in the open market. These transactions resulted in a pre-tax
gain of $1,572 for the year ended December 31, 1995 and is included in the
accompanying financial statements as an extraordinary item, net of the
applicable taxes. Through December 31, 1997, the Company has repurchased $40,000
in the aggregate of its Senior Notes in the open market.
 
     The indenture governing the Senior Notes has, among other items,
limitations on asset sales by NVR and the Guarantors and requires that NVR, on a
consolidated basis, maintain net worth of at least $80,000.  In addition, the
indenture limits dividends, certain investments and NVR's and the Guarantors'
ability to incur additional debt if NVR is in default under the indenture or if
NVR does not meet certain fixed charge coverage ratios.
 
     Also on September 30, 1993, Homes as borrower and NVR as guarantor entered
into a working capital revolving credit agreement (the "Working Capital
Revolving Credit" or "Senior Bank Indebtedness").  This facility currently
provides for unsecured borrowings up to $60,000, subject to certain borrowing
base limitations, and is generally available to fund working capital needs of
Homes and for certain payments of NVR.  Up to approximately $24,000 of this
facility is currently available for issuance in the form of letters of credit of
which $6,059 and $5,345 was outstanding at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.  The Working Capital Revolving Credit is for a three year period
ending May 31, 2000 and outstanding amounts bear interest, at the election of
the Company, at (i) the base rate of interest announced by the facility agent or
(ii) 2.0% above the Eurodollar Rate.  The weighted average interest rates for
amounts outstanding under the facility were 8.1% and 8.0% during 1997 and 1996,
respectively.  NVR's guarantee is a guarantee of collection only and is
unsecured.
 
     The Working Capital Revolving Credit agreement contains numerous operating
and financial covenants, including required levels of net worth, fixed charge
coverage ratios, and several other covenants related to the 



                                   NVR, INC.
                               (Parent Company)
            NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                            (dollars in thousands)
 
construction operations of Homes. In addition, the Working Capital Revolving
Credit agreement contains restrictions on the ability of Homes and, in certain
cases, NVR to, among other things, incur debt and make investments. Also, the
Working Capital Revolving Credit agreement prohibits NVR from paying dividends
to shareholders.
 
     Maturities with respect to the notes payable, other term debt and the
Senior Notes as of December 31, 1997 are as follows:



     The $131,728 maturing after 2002 includes $120,000 in Senior Notes which
mature in April 2003.

2.   DIVIDENDS PAID TO THE REGISTRANT

     NVR received returns of capital of $22,039, $24,928 and $3,000 from its
consolidated subsidiaries during the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and
1995, respectively.


