
10-K405
FORM 10-K




                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K
           (Mark One)
       [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
           For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

                                      OR

           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
           For the transition period from ____ to _______________

                        Commission file number 1-12378

                                   NVR, Inc.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



                       7601 Lewinsville Road, Suite 300
                            McLean, Virginia 22102
                                (703) 761-2000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         (Address, including zip code, and telephone number, including
            area code, of registrant's principal executive offices)
                                 ____________

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
        --------------------------------------------------------------

     Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered
     -------------------               -----------------------------------------
Common stock, par value $0.01 per share             American Stock Exchange


       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None
       -----------------------------------------------------------

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No__
                                        ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.[X]

As of February 15, 2000 the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of NVR, Inc. based on the closing price reported on the American
Stock Exchange for the Common Stock of NVR, Inc. on such date was approximately
$368.9 million.  As of February 15, 2000 there were 9,521,856 total shares of
common stock outstanding.


                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Proxy Statement of NVR, Inc. to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 on or prior to April 30, 2000 are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this report.

                              Page 1 of 142 pages
                     The Exhibit Index begins on page 18.



                                     INDEX





                                    PART I
                                    ------
Item 1.  Business
- -------  --------

General

     NVR, Inc. ("NVR") was formed in 1980 as NVHomes, Inc. NVR operates in two
business segments: 1) the construction and marketing of homes and 2) mortgage
banking. The Company conducts its homebuilding activities both directly and
through its wholly owned subsidiary, Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. The Company conducts
its mortgage banking operations primarily through another wholly owned
subsidiary, NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. ("NVR Finance"), and First Republic
Mortgage Corporation ("First Republic"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR
Finance acquired during the first quarter of 1999. Unless the context otherwise
requires, references to "NVR" include its subsidiaries.

     NVR is one of the largest homebuilders in the United States and in the
Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland metropolitan areas, where NVR derived
an aggregate of approximately 62% and 63% of its 1999 and 1998 homebuilding
revenues, respectively. NVR's homebuilding operations construct and sell single-
family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings under three
tradenames: Ryan Homes, NVHomes and Fox Ridge Homes. The Ryan Homes product is
built in sixteen metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia, Pennsylvania,
New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, New Jersey, Delaware and
Tennessee. The Fox Ridge Homes product is built only in the Nashville, Tennessee
metropolitan area. The Ryan Homes' and Fox Ridge Homes' products are moderately
priced and marketed primarily towards first-time buyers. The NVHomes product is
built largely in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, and is marketed
primarily to move-up buyers. In 1999, the average price of a unit settled by NVR
was approximately $208,000.

     NVR obtains land for homebuilding by acquiring control over finished
building lots through option contracts with land developers that require
forfeitable deposits. This lot acquisition strategy reduces the financial
requirements and risks associated with direct land ownership. NVR generally
seeks to maintain control over an inventory of lots sufficient to provide for
the next 18 to 24 months of projected home sales, based upon projected sales
volumes in the various communities in which it operates.

     In addition to building and selling homes, NVR provides a number of
mortgage-related services through its national mortgage banking operations,
which operate in 12 states. NVR's mortgage banking business generates revenues
primarily from origination fees, gains on marketing of loans, title fees, and
sales of servicing rights. Although NVR's mortgage banking operations provide
financing to a substantial portion of NVR's homebuilding customers, NVR's
homebuilding customers accounted for only 39% of the aggregate dollar amount of
loans closed in 1999. In 1999, NVR's mortgage banking business closed
approximately 21,900 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately
$2.9 billion. NVR's mortgage banking business sells all of the mortgage loans it
closes into the secondary markets. The total servicing portfolio balance at
December 31, 1999 was approximately $220 million in principal amounts of loans
serviced.

     Segment information for NVR's homebuilding and mortgage banking businesses
is included in note 2 to NVR's consolidated financial statements.

Homebuilding

     Products

     NVR offers single-family detached homes, townhomes, and condominium
buildings with many different basic home designs which have a variety of
elevations and numerous other options. Homes built by NVR combine traditional or
colonial exterior designs with contemporary interior designs and amenities.
NVR's homes range from approximately 985 to 5,400 square feet, with two to five
bedrooms, and are priced from approximately $80,000 to $890,000.



     Markets

     The following table summarizes settlements and contracts for sales of homes
for each of the last three years by region:



(1) Includes Pennsylvania, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, New
Jersey, Tennessee, Delaware and Richmond, Virginia.

     Construction

     Independent subcontractors under fixed-price contracts perform construction
work on NVR's homes. The subcontractors' work is performed under the supervision
of NVR employees who monitor quality control. NVR uses many independent
subcontractors representing the building trades in its various markets and is
dependent neither on any single subcontractor nor on a small number of
subcontractors.

     Sales and Marketing

     NVR's preferred marketing method is for customers to visit a furnished
model home featuring many built-in options and a landscaped lot. The garages of
these homes are usually converted into temporary sales centers where alternative
facades and floor plans are displayed and designs for other models are available
for review. Sales representatives are compensated predominantly on a commission
basis.

     Regulation

     NVR and its subcontractors must comply with various federal, state and
local zoning, building, environmental, advertising and consumer credit statutes,
rules and regulations, as well as other regulations and requirements in
connection with its construction and sales activities. All of these regulations
have increased the cost required to market NVR's products. Counties and cities
in which NVR builds homes have at times declared moratoriums on the issuance of
building permits and imposed other restrictions in the areas in which sewage
treatment facilities and other public facilities do not reach minimum standards.
To date, restrictive zoning laws and the imposition of moratoriums have not had
a material adverse effect on NVR's construction activities. However, there is no
assurance that such restrictions will not adversely affect NVR in the future.

     Competition, Market Factors and Seasonality

     The housing industry is highly competitive. NVR competes with numerous
homebuilders of varying size, ranging from local to national in scope. The
Company also faces competition from the home resale market. NVR's homebuilding
operations compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality,
service and reputation. NVR's homebuilding operations historically have been one
of the market leaders in each of the markets where NVR operates.

     The housing industry is cyclical and is affected by consumer confidence
levels, prevailing economic conditions and interest rates. In addition, a
variety of other factors affect the housing industry and the demand for new
homes, including the availability and increases in the cost of land, labor and
materials, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and the
availability of mortgage finance programs.

     The results of NVR's homebuilding operations generally reflect the
seasonality of the housing market in the Middle Atlantic region of the United
States. NVR historically has entered into more sales contracts in



this region during the first and second quarters.

     NVR is dependent upon building material suppliers for a continuous flow of
raw materials. Whenever possible, NVR utilizes standard products available from
multiple sources. Such raw materials have been generally available in adequate
supply.

Mortgage Banking

     NVR provides a number of mortgage related services to its homebuilding
customers and to other customers through its mortgage banking operations. The
mortgage banking operations of NVR also include separate companies which broker
title insurance and perform title searches in connection with mortgage loan
closings for which they receive commissions and fees.

     NVR's mortgage banking business sells all of the mortgage loans it closes
to investors in the secondary markets, rather than holding them for investment.
NVR's wholly owned subsidiary, NVR Finance, is an approved seller/servicer for
FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, VA and FHA mortgage loans. NVR's mortgage banking operations
sell all originated mortgage servicing rights on a flow basis. The size of its
servicing portfolio was approximately $220 million in principal amount of loans
being serviced at the end of 1999 compared to approximately $261 million at
December 31, 1998.

     Mortgage-Backed Securities

     NVR's limited purpose subsidiary ("Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary")
was organized to facilitate the financing of long-term mortgage loans through
the sale of bonds collateralized by mortgage-backed securities, including
certificates guaranteed as to the full and timely payment of principal and
interest by FNMA, and certificates guaranteed as to payment of principal and
interest by GNMA and FHLMC. There have been no bonds issued since 1988. Only one
series of bonds issued remains outstanding. The remaining series has an early
call feature that will allow NVR to retire the bonds at NVR's option in October,
2001.

     Competition and Market Factors

     NVR's mortgage banking operations operate through 31 offices in 12 states.
Their main competition comes from national, regional, and local mortgage
bankers, thrifts and banks in each of these markets. NVR's mortgage banking
operations compete primarily on the basis of customer service, variety of
products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services and
relative financing availability and costs.

     Regulation

     NVR Finance is an approved seller/servicer of FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA
mortgage loans, and is subject to all of those agencies' rules and regulations.
These rules and regulations restrict certain activities of NVR Finance. NVR
Finance is currently eligible and expects to remain eligible to participate in
such programs; however, any significant impairment of its eligibility could have
a material adverse impact on its operations. In addition, NVR Finance is subject
to regulation at the state and federal level with respect to specific
origination, selling and servicing practices.

Employees

     At December 31, 1999, NVR employed 3,459 full-time persons, of whom 1,010
were officers and management personnel, 185 were technical and construction
personnel, 950 were sales personnel, 534 were administrative personnel and 780
were engaged in various other service and labor activities. None of the
Company's employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and the
Company has never experienced a work stoppage. Management believes that its
employee relations are good.



Item 2.  Properties
- -------  ----------

     NVR's executive offices are located in McLean, Virginia, where NVR
currently leases office space for a nine and one-half year term expiring in
March 2005.

     NVR's manufacturing facilities are located in Thurmont, Maryland;
Farmington, New York; Clover, South Carolina; Darlington, Pennsylvania; and
Portland, Tennessee. NVR has leased the Thurmont and Farmington manufacturing
facilities for a term expiring in 2014 with various options for extension of the
leases and for the purchase of the facilities. The Clover, Darlington and
Portland leases expire in 2002, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and also contain
various options for extensions of the leases and for the purchase of the
facilities.

     NVR also leases office space in 71 locations in 14 states for field
offices, mortgage banking and title services branches under leases expiring at
various times through 2009. NVR anticipates that, upon expiration of existing
leases, it will be able to renew them or obtain comparable facilities on
acceptable terms.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings
- -------  -----------------

     During April 1999, NVR was served with a lawsuit filed in the United States
District Court in Baltimore by a group of homeowners who purchased homes in a
community in Howard County, Maryland. The suit alleges violation of certain
Federal environmental laws, as well as State consumer protection and nuisance
statutes relating to the alleged failure of NVR to disclose to its purchasers
that their homes were built on a site formerly used as an unlicensed landfill.
The developer of the property and another homebuilder are also named as
defendants in the action. The plaintiffs are seeking injunctive relief and
damages of approximately $75,000,000. The Company believes that it has valid
defenses to the plaintiffs' claims and intends to vigorously defend the case. No
assurances can be given, however, regarding the risk or range of possible loss
to the Company, if any.

     Except as otherwise noted, NVR is not involved in any legal proceedings
that are likely to have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or
results of operations.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
- -------  ---------------------------------------------------

     During the quarter ended December 31, 1999, no matters were submitted to a
vote of security holders.



Executive Officers of the Registrant


     Dwight C. Schar has been chairman of the board, president and chief
     executive officer of NVR since September 30, 1993.

     William J. Inman has been president of NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. since
     January 1992.

     James M. Sack has been vice president, secretary and general counsel of NVR
     since September 30, 1993.  Mr. Sack is currently principal of the law firm
     Sack & Associates, P.C. in McLean, Virginia.

     Paul C. Saville has been senior vice president finance, chief financial
     officer and treasurer of NVR since September 30, 1993.

     Dennis M. Seremet has been vice president and controller of NVR since April
     1, 1995.  Previously, Mr. Seremet served as vice president finance of NVR
     Homes, Inc., to which he was appointed on September 30, 1993.

                                    PART II
                                    -------

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters.
- -------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------

     NVR's shares of common stock are listed and principally traded on the
American Stock Exchange ("AMEX"). The following table sets forth for the periods
indicated the high and low closing sales prices per share for the years 1999 and
1998 as reported by the AMEX.


     As of the close of business on February 15, 2000, there were 904
shareholders of record.

     NVR has not paid any cash dividends on its shares of common stock during
the years 1999 or 1998. NVR's bank indebtedness and the indenture governing
NVR's 8% Senior Notes due 2005 contain restrictions on the ability of NVR to pay
dividends on its common stock. See note 6 to the financial statements for a
detailed description of the Senior Note restrictions.



Item 6. Selected Financial Data (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
- ------- -----------------------

     The following tables set forth selected consolidated financial information
for NVR. The selected income statement and balance sheet data have been
extracted from NVR's consolidated financial statements for each of the periods
presented. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with, and
is qualified in its entirety by, the consolidated financial statements and
related notes included elsewhere in this report.



(1)  For the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, 1997, 1996 and 1995, income
from continuing operations per diluted share was computed based on 12,088,388,
13,300,064, 13,244,677, 15,137,009 and 15,405,263 shares, respectively, which
represents the weighted average number of shares and share equivalents
outstanding at each relevant date. The weighted average number of shares and
share equivalents were calculated based upon the requirements of SFAS No. 128,
Earnings per Share, for all periods presented and represent the shares and share
equivalents used to calculate diluted earnings per share before extraordinary
losses.



Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
- -------  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
         of Operations (dollars in thousands except per share data)
         ---------------------------------------------------------

A Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

     Some of the statements in this Form 10-K, as well as statements made by the
Company in periodic press releases or other public communications, constitute
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Certain, but not necessarily all, of such
forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology, such as "believes," "expects," "may," "will," "should," or
"anticipates" or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable
terminology, or by discussion of strategies, each of which involves risks and
uncertainties.  All statements other than of historical facts included herein,
including those regarding market trends, the Company's financial position,
business strategy, projected plans and objectives of management for future
operations, are forward-looking statements.  Such forward-looking statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause
the actual results or performance of the Company to be materially different from
any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the
forward-looking statements.  Such risk factors include, but are not limited to,
general economic and business conditions (on both a national and regional
level), interest rate changes, access to suitable financing, competition, the
availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by the Company in its
homebuilding operations, shortages of labor, weather related slow downs,
building moratoria, governmental regulation, the ability of the Company to
integrate any acquired business, certain conditions in financial markets and
other factors over which the Company has little or no control.

Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

     NVR, Inc. ("NVR" or the "Company") operates in two business segments:
homebuilding and mortgage banking.  The results of these two segments are
discussed separately below.  Corporate general and administrative expenses are
fully allocated to the homebuilding and mortgage banking segments in the
information presented below.

     Effective September 30, 1998, NVR merged each of NVR Homes, Inc., NVR's
wholly owned homebuilding subsidiary, and NVR Financial Services, Inc., NVR's
wholly owned mortgage banking holding company, into the Company.  The Company
now conducts its homebuilding activities both directly and through its wholly
owned subsidiary, Fox Ridge Homes, Inc ("Fox Ridge").  The Company conducts its
mortgage banking operations primarily through another wholly owned subsidiary,
NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. ("NVR Finance"), and First Republic Mortgage
Corporation ("First Republic"), a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR Finance.

Homebuilding Segment

     Homebuilding revenues for 1999 increased 29% to $1,942,660 compared to
revenues of $1,504,744 in 1998.  The increase in revenues was primarily due to a
22% increase in the number of homes settled to 9,316 in 1999 from 7,622 in 1998,
and to a 6% increase in the average settlement price to $207.7 in 1999 from
$196.4 in 1998.  The increase in settlements is a direct result of the
substantially higher backlog at the beginning of the 1999 period as compared to
the beginning of the same 1998 period. The increase in the average settlement
price is attributable to single family detached units representing a larger
percentage of the total units settled in the current period as compared to the
prior year period, and to price increases in certain of the Company's markets.
New orders for 1999 increased by 8% to 9,678 units compared with 9,000 units for
1998.  The increase in new orders was predominantly the result of increased
sales in markets outside the Baltimore/Washington area.

     Homebuilding revenues for 1998 increased 30% to $1,504,744 from $1,154,022
in 1997.  The increase in revenues was primarily due to a 25% increase in the
number of homes settled to 7,622 units in 1998 from 6,107 units in 1997 and to a
5% increase in the average settlement price to $196.4 in 1998 from $187.7 in



1997. New orders for 1998 increased 35% to 9,000 units compared with 6,686 units
in 1997. The increase in new orders was the result of continuing favorable
market conditions in most of the markets in which the Company operates as
compared to the prior year, and to a lesser extent, new orders generated by Fox
Ridge, acquired by the Company during the fourth quarter of 1997.

     Gross profit margins for 1999 increased to 17.1% compared to 15.3% for
1998.  The increase in gross profit margins was due to favorable market
conditions that existed in the first half of 1999, which provided the Company
the opportunity to increase selling prices in certain of its markets during that
time, and to the Company's continued emphasis on controlling construction costs.
In addition, the Company increased the sales and settlement pace per community,
which resulted in a better leverage of fixed costs.  Gross profit margins
increased to 15.3% in 1998 compared to 13.7% in 1997.  The increase in gross
profit margins from that experienced in 1997 was primarily attributable to the
continuing favorable market conditions, improved margins in the Company's
expansion markets and the Company's continued emphasis on controlling
construction costs.

     SG&A expenses for 1999 increased $27,433 as compared to 1998, but as a
percentage of revenues decreased to 7.2% from 7.5%.  Approximately $15,000 of
the increase in SG&A expenses is due to a net period to period increase for
compensation cost attributable to management incentive plans (see below).  The
increase in SG&A dollars is also attributable to the aforementioned increase in
revenues.  SG&A expenses for 1998 increased $26,098 to $113,329 from $87,231 in
1997, but as a percentage of revenues fell to 7.5% in 1998 from 7.6% in 1997.
The increase in SG&A dollars was due primarily to the aforementioned increase in
revenues, a net year to year increase for certain management incentive plans and
to increased costs incurred in the Company's expansion markets.

     The final 394,000 shares granted under the 1994 Management Incentive Plan
(the "Plan"), a variable stock award plan adopted by the Board of Directors
pursuant to the Company's 1993 Plan of Reorganization, vested during 1999.  The
non-cash, compensation cost recognized in SG&A relative to the Plan totaled
$18,670, $9,081 and $7,986 for the years end December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.  Also, in the current year the Company accrued approximately
$7,900 in compensation cost related to the 1998 High Performance Plan ("High
Performance Plan"), a long-term, cash based incentive plan in which certain
members of the Company's senior management participate.  Benefits earned under
the High Performance Plan, if any, are based on a variable calculation of the
growth in earnings per share for a three-year measurement period ending on
December 31, 2001 over a base year earnings per share.   Amounts earned, if any,
under the High Performance Plan will be paid to participants in three
installments in 2003, 2004 and 2005, based upon their continued employment.
Because of the variability of the benefit calculation, compensation cost
relative to the High Performance Plan could be materially different in future
years than that recognized in 1999.

     Backlog units and dollars were 4,935 and $1,137,332, respectively, at
December 31, 1999 compared to backlog units of 4,573 and dollars of $958,757 at
December 31, 1998.  The increase in backlog dollars and units was due to a 2%
increase in new orders for the six-month period ended December 31, 1999 compared
to the same 1998 period, and to a slower backlog turn.  The dollar increase is
also due to an 8% increase in the average selling price comparing the same six-
month periods.  Backlog units and dollars were 4,573 and $958,757, respectively,
at December 31, 1998 compared to backlog units of 3,195 and dollars of $623,705
at December 31, 1997.  The increase in backlog dollars and units was primarily
due to a 31% increase in new orders for the six months ended December 31, 1998
as compared to the six months ended December 31, 1997.

     The Company believes that earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization ("EBITDA") provides a meaningful comparison of operating
performance of the homebuilding segment because it excludes the amortization of
certain intangible assets and non-cash compensation cost related to the Plan.
Although the Company believes the calculation is helpful in understanding the
performance of the homebuilding segment, EBITDA should not be considered a
substitute for net income or cash flow as indicators of the Company's financial
performance or its ability to generate liquidity.  EBITDA as presented may not
be comparable to other similarly titled measures used by other companies.



Calculation of Homebuilding EBITDA:
                                                    Year Ended December 31,
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                   1999       1998      1997
                                                 --------   --------   -------
     Operating income                            $185,629   $111,927   $65,533
     Depreciation                                   3,387      3,490     3,588
     Amortization of excess reorganization
      value/goodwill                                7,254      7,547     6,635
     Non-cash Plan compensation cost               18,670      9,081     7,986
                                                 --------   --------   -------
     Homebuilding EBITDA                         $214,940   $132,045   $83,742
                                                 ========   ========   =======
     % of Homebuilding revenues                      11.1%       8.8%      7.3%


     Homebuilding EBITDA in 1999 was 62.8% higher than in 1998, and as a
percentage of revenues increased to 11.1% in 1999 from 8.8% in 1998.
Homebuilding EBITDA in 1998 was 58% higher than in 1997, and as a percentage of
revenues increased to 8.8% in 1998 from 7.3% in 1999.

Mortgage Banking Segment

     Excluding the results of First Republic Mortgage Corporation, the mortgage
banking segment generated operating income of $16,045 for the year ended
December 31, 1999 compared to operating income of $17,056 and $5,855 during the
same periods in 1998 and 1997.  Total loan closings were $2,911,865, $2,717,456
and $1,485,763 during the respective periods of 1999, 1998 and 1997.
Approximately $450,178 of the increased loan closing production was the result
of loans originated by First Republic, which was acquired by the Company in
March 1999 (see below for additional information regarding the acquisition).
Excluding the origination activity of First Republic, loan origination activity
for 1999 decreased 9% compared to 1998, and increased 66% when compared to 1997.
Including the results of First Republic, operating income for 1999 was $14,752.

     Mortgage banking fees in 1999 were $48,122 compared to $42,703 in 1998,
representing an increase of  $5,419, or 13%, from the overall 7% increase in
loan closing volume.  An increase in builder related and other retail loan
origination activity offset the sharp reduction in wholesale refinance activity
experienced by the Company during the second half of 1999.  This shift in
product mix had a favorable impact on mortgage banking fees.  However, due to
increased price competition, the Company realized lower margins on the sale of
loans.  The increased revenues were offset by higher general and administrative
expenses primarily due to ongoing incremental overhead of First Republic and, to
a lesser extent, costs incurred for the implementation of the Company's new loan
origination system.  In response to declining market conditions, the Company
commenced a plan to close four of its mortgage origination branches and to exit
the wholesale origination business.  As a result of the plan, the Company
accrued approximately $650 in office closure expenses during the fourth quarter
of 1999.

     Mortgage banking fees in 1998 were $42,703 compared to $25,946 in 1997.
The increase is primarily due to the increased mortgage loan closings and higher
title services revenues.  Partially offsetting this increase in mortgage banking
fees were volume-related increases in SG&A expenses.

Seasonality

     The results of NVR's homebuilding operations generally reflect the
seasonality of the housing market in the Middle Atlantic region of the United
States.  NVR historically has entered into more sales contracts in this region
during the first and second quarters.  Because NVR's mortgage banking operations
generate part of their business from NVR's homebuilding operations and from
other homebuilders affected by seasonality, to the extent that homebuilding is
affected by seasonality, mortgage banking operations may also be affected.  The
existence of mortgage banking and title services offices outside of the Middle
Atlantic region and the existence of third-party business tend to reduce the
effects of seasonality on the results of NVR's operations.

Effective Tax Rate

     The merger of NVR Homes, Inc and NVR Financial Services, Inc. into the
Company on September 30, 1998 allowed the Company to utilize a separate return
limitation year net operating loss ("SRLY NOL") generated by the Company's
previously owned savings and loan institution, NVR Savings Bank.  As a result,
the Company realized a $3,300 tax benefit during 1998.  The use of the SRLY NOL,
coupled with higher



taxable income relative to fixed permanent differences, reduced the Company's
1998 effective tax rate to 40.1% from 46.4% in 1997. The 1999 effective tax rate
of 41.2% remained low as compared to the 1997 effective tax rate of 46.4% due to
higher taxable income relative to NVR's permanent differences, primarily the
amortization of reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to
identifiable assets and non-deductible compensation.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

     The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") has issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities."  SFAS No. 133 requires all derivatives to
be recognized as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and be
measured at fair value.  Depending on the hedge designation, changes in such
fair value will be recognized in either other comprehensive income or current
earnings on the income statement.  During June 1999, the FASB issued SFAS No.
137, which amended SFAS No. 133.  SFAS No. 133, as amended, is now effective for
all fiscal quarters of all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000.  At the
present time, the Company cannot determine the impact that SFAS No. 133, as
amended, will have on its financial statements upon adoption on January 1, 2001,
as such impact will be determined based on loans held in inventory and forward
mortgage delivery contracts outstanding at the date of adoption.

Year 2000 Issue

     The Year 2000 Issue is the risk that computer programs using two-digit date
fields will fail to properly recognize the year 2000, with the result being
business interruptions due to computer system failures by the NVR's software or
hardware or that of government entities, service providers and vendors.

     With the assistance of a consulting firm, NVR completed its assessment of
exposure to Year 2000 Issues and successfully remediated areas of exposure in
both its homebuilding and mortgage banking segments prior to December 31, 1999.
Total expenditures for Year 2000 Issue costs equaled approximately $5,500.  To
the date of this report, NVR has not encountered any business interruptions or
adverse financial consequences related to the Year 2000 Issue.  However, there
can be no assurances that the Company will not encounter material business
interruptions or adverse financial consequences subsequent to the date of this
report.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     NVR's homebuilding segment generally provides for its working capital cash
requirements using cash generated from operations and a short-term credit
facility.  In September 1998, NVR, as borrower, succeeded to the obligations of
NVR Homes, Inc. under the unsecured working capital revolving credit facility as
amended and restated (the "Facility").  The Facility expires on May 31, 2002,
and bears interest at the election of the Company at i) the base rate of
interest announced by the Facility agent, or ii) 1.35% above the Eurodollar
rate.  The Facility provides for borrowings of up to $100,000 of which $60,000
is currently committed. Up to approximately $24,000 of the Facility is currently
available for issuance in the form of letters of credit of which $12,542 was
outstanding at December 31, 1999.  There were no direct borrowings outstanding
under the Facility as of December 31, 1999.

     NVR's mortgage banking segment provides for its mortgage origination and
other operating activities using cash generated from operations as well as
various short-term credit facilities.  NVR  Finance has available a $225,000
mortgage warehouse facility, of which $200,000 is committed, to fund its
mortgage origination activities, under which $107,588 was outstanding at
December 31, 1999. The interest rate under the Mortgage Warehouse Revolving
Credit agreement is either: (i) the London Interbank Offering Rate ("Libor")
plus either 1.25% or 1.75% depending on the type of collateral, or (ii) 1.25% or
1.75% to the extent that NVR Finance provides compensating balances and
depending on the type of collateral.  The weighted average interest rate for
amounts outstanding under the Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit line was 5.8%
during 1999.  NVR Finance from time to time enters into various gestation and
repurchase agreements.  NVR Finance currently has available an aggregate of
$175,000 of borrowing capacity in such uncommitted facilities.  Amounts
outstanding thereunder accrue interest at various rates tied to the Libor rate
and are



collateralized by gestation mortgage-backed securities and whole loans. The
weighted average interest rate for amounts outstanding under these uncommitted
facilities was 5.5% during 1999. There was an aggregate of $17,363 outstanding
under such gestation and repurchase agreements at December 31, 1999.

     On January 20, 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration statement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of up to $400,000 of the
Company's debt securities.  The shelf registration statement was declared
effective on February 27, 1998 and provides that securities may be offered from
time to time in one or more series, and in the form of senior or subordinated
debt.  As of December 31, 1999, an aggregate principal balance of $225,000 was
available for issuance under the shelf registration statement.

     On April 14, 1998, the Company completed an offering under the shelf
registration statement for $145,000 of senior notes due 2005 (the "New Notes"),
resulting in aggregate net proceeds to the Company of approximately $142,800
after fees and expenses.  The New Notes mature on June 1, 2005 and bear interest
at 8%, payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing
June 1, 1998.  The New Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company,
ranking equally in right of payment with the Company's other existing and future
unsecured indebtedness.  An additional $30,000 in principal is available for
issuance under the New Note offering.  The net proceeds of the New Notes were
used to extinguish other indebtedness of the Company, as described below.

     Through a tender offer commenced on April 21, 1998 and completed on May 18,
1998, various open market purchases throughout 1998 and a contractual call
exercised on December 1, 1998, the Company repurchased all of the $120,000 in
aggregate principal outstanding under the Company's 11% Senior Notes due 2003
("Senior Notes").  The Senior Notes were retired upon purchase.  The amount of
funds expended to complete the Senior Note repurchase totaled $129,345,
excluding accrued interest, and resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary
loss of $7,126, net of a $4,461 tax benefit, ($0.54 per diluted share) in the
accompanying 1998 consolidated income statements.

     During December 1998, the Company exercised its option to purchase two
office buildings currently utilized by NVR for certain administrative functions
of both its homebuilding and mortgage banking segments, thereby extinguishing
the Company's obligations under the capital lease pertaining to these buildings.
The Company expended funds of $12,295, excluding accrued interest, to extinguish
the capital lease obligation and recognized an additional extraordinary loss of
$2,275, net of a $1,424 tax benefit, ($0.17 per diluted share) in the
accompanying 1998 consolidated income statements.  During 1999, the Company sold
both buildings to an unrelated third party and leased back one of the buildings
under an operating lease for a five-year term expiring in 2004.  There was no
resultant material gain or loss on the sale transaction.

          NVR Finance's mortgage warehouse facility limits the ability of NVR
Finance to transfer funds to NVR in the form of dividends, loans or advances.
NVR Finance had net assets of $11,500 as of December 31, 1999, that were so
restricted.

     As shown in NVR's consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended
December 31, 1999, NVR's operating activities provided cash of $215,353 for this
period.  The cash was provided primarily by homebuilding operations and by the
excess of loan sale proceeds over cash expended to close mortgage loans with
customers.

     Net cash provided by investing activities was $26,095 for the year ended
December 31, 1999.  The primary source of cash was the proceeds from the sale of
mortgage servicing rights.  Cash of $3,697 (net of cash acquired) was also used
to acquire First Republic in March of 1999 (see below).

     Net cash used for financing activities was $220,826 for the year ended
December 31, 1999.  Cash was primarily used for NVR's purchase of approximately
2.0 million shares of its common stock for an aggregate purchase price of
$101,765 during the year ended December 31, 1999.  The Company may, from time to
time, repurchase additional shares of its common stock, pursuant to repurchase
authorizations by the Board of Directors and subject to the restrictions
contained within the Company's debt agreements. NVR also had net repayments
under the mortgage banking credit lines of $116,136.



     The Company believes that internally generated cash and borrowings
available under credit facilities will be sufficient to satisfy near and longer
term cash requirements for working capital and debt service in both its
homebuilding and mortgage banking operations.

Business Acquisition

     On March 4, 1999, NVR Mortgage Acquisition, Inc. ("NVRMA"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of NVR Finance, NVR's wholly owned mortgage banking subsidiary,
purchased all of the outstanding capital stock of First Republic Mortgage
Corporation for approximately $5,300 in cash.  First Republic, based in
Rockville, Maryland, is a leading mortgage lender in the Baltimore and
Washington Metropolitan area.   NVRMA accounted for this acquisition using the
purchase method, and the operations of the acquired business have been included
in NVR's consolidated financial statements for 1999 beginning on the date of the
acquisition.  Goodwill of approximately $3,300 that was generated pursuant to
the purchase transaction is being amortized using the straight-line method over
5 years.


Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.
- --------  ----------------------------------------------------------

     Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market
prices and interest rates.  Though the Company faces and manages other types of
risk, such as credit and liquidity risks, the Company's market risk arises from
interest rate risk inherent in its financial instruments.  Interest rate risk is
the possibility that changes in interest rates will cause unfavorable changes in
net income or in the value of interest rate-sensitive assets, liabilities and
commitments. In addition, lower interest rates tend to increase demand for
mortgage loans for home purchasers, as well as for the demand for refinancing of
existing mortgages.  Higher interest rates make it more difficult for potential
borrowers to purchase residential properties and to qualify for mortgage loans
and reduce demand for refinance loans.  The Company has no market rate sensitive
instruments held for speculative or trading purposes.

     The Company's mortgage banking segment is exposed to interest rate risk as
it relates to its lending activities.  The mortgage banking segment originates
mortgage loans, which are generally sold through optional and mandatory forward
delivery contracts into the secondary markets.  All of the mortgage banking
segment's loan portfolio is held for sale.

     Profitability of the mortgage banking segment may be directly affected by
the levels of and fluctuations in interest rates, which affect the mortgage
banking segment's ability to earn a spread between interest received on its
mortgage loans held for sale and the costs of borrowings under the Company's
variable-rate warehouse line of credit and uncommitted repurchase and gestation
facilities.  The profitability of the mortgage banking segment is likely to be
adversely affected during any period of unexpected or rapid changes in interest
rates.  For example, a substantial or sustained increase in interest rates could
adversely affect the ability of the Company to originate mortgage loans and
would reduce the value of mortgage loans held for sale.  A substantial decline
in interest rates could also impair the value of any capitalized mortgage
servicing rights.  The Company's current risk management strategy involves
selling all originated mortgage servicing rights on a flow basis.  The Company
has $3,384 of capitalized mortgage servicing rights as of December 31, 1999,
with a fair value at December 31, 1999 of $3,828.

     In an environment of stable interest rates, the Company's gains on the sale
of mortgage loans would generally be limited to those gains resulting from the
yield differential between mortgage loan interest rates and rates required by
secondary market purchasers.  A loss from the sale of loans may occur if
interest rates increase between the time that the Company establishes the
interest rate on a loan and the time that the loan is sold.  Fluctuating
interest rates also may affect the net interest income earned by the Company,
resulting from the difference between the yield to the Company on loans held for
sale and the interest paid by the Company for funds borrowed to finance the
origination of mortgage loans.  Because of the uncertainty of future loan
origination volume and the future level of interest rates, there can be no
assurance that the Company will realize gains on the sale of financial assets in
the future.



     In the normal course of business, the Company also enters into contractual
commitments involving financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk.  These
financial instruments include commitments to extend mortgage loans to customers
and forward contracts to sell mortgage-backed securities to broker/dealers.
These instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market rate risk in
excess of the amounts recognized in the balance sheet.  NVR enters into
contractual commitments to extend credit to buyers of single-family homes with
fixed expiration dates.  The commitments become effective when the borrowers
"lock-in" a specified interest rate within time frames established by NVR.  All
mortgagors are evaluated for credit worthiness prior to the extension of the
commitment.  Market risk arises if interest rates move adversely between the
time of the "lock-in" of rates by the borrower and the sale date to a
broker/dealer.  This market risk is managed by entering into forward contracts
as discussed below.

     There were mortgage loan commitments aggregating approximately $120,716
outstanding at December 31, 1999, with a fair value at December 31, 1999 of
$120,914.  Since certain of the commitments are expected to expire without a
loan closing, the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future
cash requirements.  Collateral for loans granted is obtained by a first mortgage
security interest in real estate whose appraised values exceed the contractual
amount of the commitment.

     The Company enters into optional and mandatory forward delivery contracts
to sell mortgage-backed securities and whole loans at specific prices and dates
to broker/dealers and secondary market investors.  The Company has established
policies governing which broker/dealers can be used to conduct these activities.
Market risk with respect to forward contracts arises from changes in the value
of contractual positions due to fluctuations in interest rates.   The Company
limits its exposure to market risk by monitoring differences between the total
of commitments to customers and loans held for sale and forward contracts with
investors and broker/dealers.  In the event that the Company has forward
delivery contract commitments in excess of available mortgage-backed securities,
the Company completes the transaction by either paying or receiving a fee
to/from the broker/dealer equal to the increase/decrease in the market value of
the forward contract.  NVR has no market risk associated with optional delivery
contracts because NVR has the right but not the obligation to deliver mortgage
backed securities and whole loans to investors and broker/dealers under these
contracts.  There were open forward delivery contracts to sell loans to third
party investors aggregating approximately $198,131 at December 31, 1999, with a
fair value at December 31, 1999 of $198,181.

     The Company's homebuilding segment generates operating liquidity and
acquisitions of capital assets through fixed-rate and variable-rate debt.  The
homebuilding segment's primary variable-rate debt is a Working Capital Credit
facility that currently provides for unsecured borrowings up to $100,000 (of
which $60,000 is committed), subject to certain borrowing base limitations.  The
working capital credit facility expires May 31, 2002 and outstanding amounts
bear interest at the election of the Company, at (i) the base rate of interest
announced by the Working Capital Credit facility agent or (ii) 1.35% above the
Eurodollar Rate.  The weighted average interest rates for the amounts
outstanding under the Facility was 6.5% for the year ended 1999.  There were no
amounts outstanding under the Working Capital Credit facility at December 31,
1999.

     The following table represents contractual balances of the Company's on
balance sheet financial instruments in dollars at the expected maturity dates,
as well as the fair values of those on balance sheet financial instruments, at
December 31, 1999.  The expected maturity categories take into consideration
historical and anticipated prepayment speeds, as well as actual amortization of
principal and does not take into consideration the reinvestment of cash or the
refinancing of existing indebtedness.  Because the Company sells all of the
mortgage loans it originates into the secondary markets, the Company has made
the assumption that the portfolio of mortgage loans held for sale will mature in
the first year.   Consequently, outstanding warehouse borrowings and repurchase
facilities are also assumed to mature in the first year.



                              Maturities (000's)
                              ------------------



(a)  Average interest rate is net of credits received for compensating cash
     balances.
(b)  The $148,644 maturing after 2004 includes $145,000 of the Company's 8%
     Senior Notes due June 2005.



Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
- -------  --------------------------------------------

     The financial statements required by this Item are included in the
financial statements and schedules included herein under Item 14 and are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
- -------  ---------------------------------------------------------------
         Financial Disclosure.
         ---------------------

     Not applicable.

                                   PART III
                                   --------

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
- -------- ---------------------------------------------------

     Item 10 is hereby incorporated by reference to NVR's Proxy Statement
expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to
April 30, 2000.  Reference is also made regarding the executive officers of the
registrant to "Executive Officers of the Registrant" following Item 4 of Part I
of this report.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.
- -------- -----------------------

     Item 11 is hereby incorporated by reference to NVR's Proxy Statement
expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to
April 30, 2000.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
- -------- ---------------------------------------------------------------

     Item 12 is hereby incorporated by reference to NVR's Proxy Statement
expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to
April 30, 2000.


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
- -------- -----------------------------------------------

     Item 13 is hereby incorporated by reference to NVR's Proxy Statement
expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to
April 30, 2000.



                                    PART IV
                                    -------

Item 14.  Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K.
- --------  ---------------------------------

Financial Statements
     NVR, Inc. - Consolidated Financial Statements
     Report of Independent Auditors
     Consolidated Balance Sheets
     Consolidated Statements of Income
     Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Description of Exhibits

      Exhibit
      Number    Description
      ------    -----------

      2.1      Debtors' Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization under
               Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (as modified to July 21, 1993).
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993
               Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-63190) (the "1993
               Registration Statement").

      3.1      Restated Articles of Incorporation of NVR, Inc. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 3.7 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration
               Statement.

      3.2      Bylaws of NVR, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.8 in
               NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration Statement.

      4.1      Form of Trust Indenture between NVR, Inc., as issuer and the Bank
               of New York as trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3
               in NVR, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 23, 1998.

      4.2      Form of Note (included in Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1).

      4.4      Form of Supplemental Trust Indenture between NVR, Inc., as
               issuer, NVR Homes, Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of New York,
               as trustee. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 in NVR,
               Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 23, 1998.

   **10.1      Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and Dwight C. Schar dated
               January 1, 1996.

   **10.3      Executive Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and Paul C.
               Saville dated January 1, 1995.

   **10.5      Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and William J. Inman dated
               November 13, 1995.

    *10.6      Loan Agreement dated as of September 7, 1999 among NVR Mortgage
               Finance, Inc. and US Bank National Association., as Agent, and
               the other lenders party thereto.

     10.7      NVR, Inc. Equity Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.10 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration Statement.

     10.8      NVR, Inc. Directors Long-Term Incentive Plan. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.11 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration
               Statement.

     10.9      NVR, Inc. Management Equity Incentive Plan. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.2 in NVR, Inc.'s 1993 Registration
               Statement.



   **10.19     Employee Stock Ownership Plan of NVR, Inc.

   **10.22     NVR, Inc. 1994 Management Equity Incentive Plan.

     10.23     NVR, Inc. 1998 Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of NVR, Inc.'s Form S-8
               Registration Statement filed June 4, 1999.

     10.24     NVR, Inc. 1998 Directors' Long-Term Stock Option Plan.
               Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of NVR, Inc.'s Form S-8
               Registration Statement filed June 4, 1999.

     10.26     NVR, Inc. Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 99.3 of NVR, Inc.'s Form S-8 Registration
               Statement filed May 31, 1996.

     10.27     NVR, Inc. Directors' Long-Term Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 99.3 of NVR, Inc.'s Form S-8 Registration
               Statement filed May 31, 1996.

   **10.29     Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September
               30, 1998 among NVR, Inc. as borrower and Certain Banks and
               BankBoston, as Agent for itself and Certain Banks.

   **10.30     NVR, Inc. High Performance Compensation Plan dated as of January
               1, 1996.

    *10.31     NVR, Inc. High Performance Compensation Plan No. 2 dated as of
               January 1, 1999.

   **10.32     Whole Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement between NVR Mortgage
               Finance, Inc., as seller, and Prudential Securities Realty
               Funding Corporation, as Purchaser, dated as of August 11, 1997.

   **10.33     Mortgage Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of January 15,
               1997 between Prudential Securities Realty Funding Corporation and
               NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc.

    **10.34    Mortgage Loan Purchase and Sale Agreement between Greenwich
               Capital Financial Products, Inc. and NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc.,
               dated as of July 22, 1998

     *11       Computation of Earnings per Share

     *21       NVR, Inc. Subsidiaries.

     *23       Consent of KPMG LLP (independent auditors).

     *27       Financial Data Schedule

* Filed herewith.
**   Contained in a previously filed Annual Report on Form 10-K.

_________________

Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed by NVR during the last quarter covered by this
report.



                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                 NVR, Inc.


                                 By:  /s/ Dwight C. Schar
                                    ---------------------------
                                          Dwight C. Schar
                                          Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                          President and Chief Executive Officer

Dated:  March 8, 2000

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                               Title                  Date
- ---------                               -----                  ----

                              Chairman of the Board
                              of Directors, President and
/s/ Dwight C. Schar           Chief Executive Officer
- ----------------------------
Dwight C. Schar               (Principal Executive Officer)  March 8, 2000


/s/ C. Scott Bartlett, Jr.    Director
- ----------------------------
C. Scott Bartlett, Jr.                                       March 8, 2000


/s/ Manuel H Johnson          Director
- ----------------------------
Manuel H. Johnson                                            March 8, 2000


/s/ William A. Moran          Director
- ----------------------------
William A. Moran                                             March 8, 2000


/s/ Richard H. Norair, Sr.    Director
- ----------------------------
Richard H. Norair, Sr.                                       March 8, 2000


/s/ David A. Preiser          Director
- ----------------------------
David A. Preiser                                             March 8, 2000


/s/ George E. Slye            Director
- ----------------------------
George E. Slye                                               March 8, 2000


/s/ John M. Toups             Director
- ----------------------------
John M. Toups                                                March 8, 2000


                              Senior Vice President,
                              Chief Financial Officer and
/s/ Paul C. Saville           Treasurer                      March 8, 2000
- ----------------------------
Paul C. Saville



                         Independent Auditors' Report
                         ----------------------------


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
NVR, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVR, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 1999.  These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of NVR, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



KPMG LLP

McLean, Virginia
February 2, 2000



                                   NVR, Inc.
                          Consolidated Balance Sheets
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                                                    (Continued)

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                    Consolidated Balance Sheets (Continued)
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                       Consolidated Statements of Income
                   (dollars in thousands, except share data)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                            (dollars in thousands)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                            (dollars in thousands)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

1.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Principles of Consolidation

          The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the
     accounts of NVR, Inc. ("NVR" or "The Company"), its wholly owned
     subsidiaries and certain partially owned entities. All significant
     intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

     Merger

          Effective September 30, 1998, NVR merged each of NVR Homes, Inc.,
     NVR's wholly owned homebuilding subsidiary, and NVR Financial Services,
     Inc., NVR's wholly owned mortgage banking holding company, into the
     Company. The Company now conducts its homebuilding activities both directly
     and through its wholly owned subsidiary, Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("Fox
     Ridge"). The Company conducts its mortgage banking operations primarily
     through another wholly owned subsidiary, NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. ("NVR
     Finance") and First Republic Mortgage Corporation, wholly owned by NVR
     Finance.

     Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
     accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
     assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
     disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
     financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
     during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those
     estimates.


     Cash and Cash Equivalents

          Cash and cash equivalents include short-term investments with original
     maturities of three months or less.

     Homebuilding Inventory

          Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value.  Cost of
     lots and completed and uncompleted housing units represent the accumulated
     actual cost thereof.  Field construction supervisors' salaries and related
     direct overhead expenses are included in inventory costs.  Interest costs
     are not capitalized into inventory.  Upon settlement, the cost of the units
     is expensed on a specific identification basis.  Cost of manufacturing
     materials is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

     Reorganization Value in Excess of Amounts Allocable to Identifiable Assets

          Reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to identifiable
     assets is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 years.
     Accumulated amortization as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 was $49,278 and
     $42,030, respectively.  Determination of any impairment losses related to
     this intangible asset is based on consideration of projected undiscounted
     cash flows.  Tax benefits realized in subsequent periods related to
     unrecognized deferred tax assets as of September 30, 1993 are recorded as a
     reduction of reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to
     identifiable assets.  For the year ended December 31, 1998, $2,852 of such
     benefits was realized.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)


     Goodwill

          The excess of amounts paid for business acquisitions over the net fair
     value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed is amortized using
     the straight line method ranging from five to ten years.  Accumulated
     amortization was $2,918 and $1,276 at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
     respectively.  Determination of any impairment losses related to this
     intangible asset is based on consideration of projected undiscounted cash
     flows.

     Mortgage Loans Held for Sale

          Mortgage loans held for sale, forward trade commitments and
     origination commitments are valued at the lower of cost or market on a net
     aggregate basis.

     Mortgage-Backed Securities and Mortgage-Backed Bonds

          The Company's consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented
     reflect its ownership interests in mortgage-backed securities net of the
     related mortgage-backed bonds as a component of other assets of the
     mortgage banking segment, and the consolidated statements of income for all
     periods presented reflect earnings from such interests net of the related
     interest expense as a component of other income of the mortgage banking
     segment.  All of such interests are at, or are nearing, the end of their
     economic useful lives, and as such, NVR does not anticipate that such
     assets will generate significant amounts of income or cash flow in the
     future.  See note 11 for additional information.

     Earnings per Share

          The following weighted average shares and share equivalents are used
     to calculate basic and diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 1999,
     1998 and 1997:



     Revenues-Homebuilding Operations

          NVR builds light-frame, low-rise residences which generally are
     produced on a pre-sold basis for the ultimate customer.  Revenues are
     recognized at the time units are completed and title passes to the
     customer.  Additionally, to a significantly lesser degree, NVR sells house
     packages to builder-dealers and other homebuilders and recognizes revenue
     at the time the product is delivered to the builder-dealer or homebuilder.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     Mortgage Banking Fees

          Mortgage banking fees include income earned by NVR's mortgage banking
     subsidiaries for originating and processing mortgage loans, servicing
     mortgage loans held in the servicing portfolio, title fees, gains and
     losses on the sale of mortgage loans and mortgage servicing and other
     activities incidental to mortgage banking.  Loan origination fees and
     direct loan origination costs are deferred and the net deferred fees, or
     costs, are recognized either upon the sale of the loan or as an adjustment
     of the yield over the life of the loan.

     Mortgage Servicing Rights

          Mortgage servicing rights are recorded by allocating the total cost of
     acquiring mortgage loans to the mortgage servicing rights and the loans
     (without the mortgage servicing rights) based on their relative fair
     values.

          NVR measures the impairment of the mortgage servicing rights based on
     their current fair value.  Current fair value is determined through the
     discounted present value of estimated future net servicing cashflows using
     a risk-based discount rate and assumptions based upon market estimates for
     future servicing revenues and expenses (including prepayment expectations,
     servicing costs, default rates, and interest earnings on escrows).  For the
     purposes of evaluating and measuring impairment of the mortgage servicing
     rights, they are stratified using the predominant risk characteristic of
     the underlying mortgage loans.  NVR has determined that the predominant
     risk characteristic of the underlying mortgage loans is interest rate.
     Impairment, and subsequent changes in measurement of impairment, of any
     individual stratum is recognized through a valuation allowance for that
     stratum.  The mortgage servicing rights are amortized to general and
     administrative expense in proportion to, and over the period of, the
     estimated net servicing income.

     Depreciation

          Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of the assets
     using the straight-line method.  Amortization of capital lease assets is
     included in depreciation expense.

     Income Taxes

          NVR files a consolidated federal income tax return.  Deferred income
     taxes reflect the impact of "temporary differences" between the amount of
     assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and such amounts as
     measured by enacted tax rules and regulations.

     Financial Instruments

          Except as otherwise noted here and note 4 to the financial statements,
     NVR believes that insignificant differences exist between the carrying
     value and the fair value of its financial instruments.  The estimated fair
     value of NVR's 8% Senior Notes due 2005 as of December 31, 1999 and 1998
     was $136,663 and $145,508, respectively.  The estimated fair values are
     based on quoted market prices.  The carrying value was $145,000 at December
     31, 1999 and 1998.

     Stock-Based Compensation

          As permitted under SFAS No. 123, NVR has elected to continue to follow
     the guidance of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for
     Stock Issued to Employees, in accounting for its stock-based employee
     compensation arrangements.  The pro forma financial information required by
     SFAS No. 123 is included in note 9.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

2.   Segment Information, Nature of Operations, and Certain Concentrations

     NVR operates in two business segments: homebuilding and mortgage banking.
The homebuilding segment is one of the largest homebuilders in the United States
and in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland metropolitan areas, where
NVR derived approximately 62% of its 1999 homebuilding revenues.  NVR's
homebuilding segment primarily constructs and sells single-family detached
homes, townhomes and condominium buildings under three tradenames: Ryan Homes,
NVHomes and Fox Ridge Homes.  The Ryan Homes product is built in sixteen
metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, New Jersey, Delaware and Tennessee. The Fox
Ridge Homes product is built solely in the Nashville, Tennessee metropolitan
area.  The Ryan Homes' and Fox Ridge Homes' products are moderately priced and
marketed primarily towards first-time buyers. The NVHomes product is built
largely in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, and is marketed primarily to
move-up buyers.

     The mortgage banking segment, which operates under NVR Finance, currently
includes a national mortgage banking operation and a limited-purpose financing
subsidiary (the "Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary") which was formed to
facilitate the financing of long-term mortgage loans through the sale of non-
recourse bonds collateralized by mortgage-backed securities.  NVR's mortgage
banking business generates revenues primarily from origination fees, gains on
marketing of loans, title fees, and sales of servicing rights.  A substantial
portion of the Company's mortgage operations is conducted in the Washington, D.C
and Baltimore, MD metropolitan areas.  Although NVR's mortgage banking
operations provide financing to a substantial portion of NVR's homebuilding
customers, NVR's homebuilding customers accounted for only 39% of the aggregate
dollar amount of loans closed in 1999.

     Corporate general and administrative expenses are fully allocated to the
homebuilding and mortgage banking segments in the information presented below.



(a)  Total amounts for the reportable segments equal the respective amounts for
     the consolidated enterprise.
(b)  The following reconciles segment profit and segment assets to the
     respective amounts for the consolidated enterprise:





                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)



(c)  Total amounts for the reportable segments equal the respective amounts for
     the consolidated enterprise.
(d)  The following reconciles segment profit and segment assets to the
     respective amounts for the consolidated enterprise:





(e)  Total amounts for the reportable segments equal the respective amounts for
     the consolidated enterprise.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

(f)  The following reconciles segment profit and segment assets to the
     respective amounts for the consolidated enterprise:



3.   Related Party Transactions

     During 1999, 1998, and 1997, NVR purchased, at market prices, developed
lots from a company that is controlled by a member of the board of directors.
Those purchases totaled approximately $18,700, $13,000 and $8,100 during 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.  NVR expects to purchase the majority of the
remaining lots under contract as of December 31, 1999 over the next 18 to 24
months for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $36,000.

     During the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, one of the
executive officers of NVR was a partner in a law firm, which billed NVR
approximately $471, $441 and $375, respectively, in fees and expenses for legal
services.

4.   Loan Servicing Portfolio, Mortgage Loan Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet
Risk

     At December 31, 1999 and 1998, NVR was servicing approximately 2,700 and
3,170 mortgage loans for various investors with aggregate balances of
approximately $220,000 and $261,000, respectively.

     At December 31, 1999, NVR had capitalized mortgage servicing rights of
$3,384 which related to approximately $218 million of the aggregate $220 million
in loans serviced.  The mortgage servicing rights associated with the remaining
$2 million in loans serviced are not subject to capitalization because the loans
were originated and sold prior to NVR's adoption of SFAS No. 122 on January 1,
1995.  At December 31, 1998, NVR had capitalized purchased mortgage servicing
rights of $3,680.

     NVR assesses the fair value of the capitalized mortgage servicing rights by
stratifying the underlying loans by interest rate.  The fair value of the
mortgage servicing rights is then determined through the present value of
estimated future net servicing cashflows using a risk based discount rate, and
assumptions based upon market estimates for future servicing revenues and
expenses (including prepayment expectations, servicing costs, default rates, and
interest earnings on escrows).  The fair value of the capitalized mortgage
servicing rights was $3,328 and $3,878 at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.  The fair value of the mortgage servicing rights not subject to
capitalization was $200 and $300 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Based on management's estimate of the fair value of the designated strata, the
Company has a $175 valuation



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

reserve at December 31, 1999.

     NVR amortizes the capitalized mortgage servicing rights in proportion to,
and over the period of, the estimated net servicing income.  The amortization
for the periods ending December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $306, $484 and $506,
respectively.

     In the normal course of business, NVR enters into contractual commitments
involving financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk.  These financial
instruments include commitments to extend mortgage loans to customers and
forward contracts to sell mortgage-backed securities to broker/dealers.  These
instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and market rate risk
in excess of the amounts recognized in the balance sheet.

     NVR's exposure to credit loss, in the event of non-performance by the
customers, is represented by the contractual amount of the commitment for the
mortgage loans.  NVR Finance uses the same credit policies in making commitments
as it does for on-balance sheet mortgage loans.

     There were mortgage loan commitments aggregating approximately $120,716 and
$235,812 outstanding at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The fair
values of mortgage loan commitments were approximately $120,914 and $236,272 at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  There were open forward delivery
contracts aggregating approximately $198,131 and $287,317 at December 31, 1999
and 1998, respectively.  The fair values of open forward delivery contracts were
approximately $198,181 and $287,528 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

          NVR enters into contractual commitments to extend credit to buyers of
single-family homes with fixed expiration dates.  The commitments become
effective when the borrowers "lock-in" a specified interest rate within time
frames established by NVR.  All mortgagors are evaluated for credit worthiness
prior to the extension of the commitment.  Market risk arises if interest rates
move adversely between the time of the "lock-in" of rates by the borrower and
the sale date to a broker/dealer.  This market risk is managed by entering into
forward contracts as discussed below.

     Since certain of the commitments are expected to expire without a loan
closing, the total contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash
requirements.  Collateral for loans granted is obtained by a first mortgage
security interest in real estate whose appraised values exceed the contractual
amount of the commitment.

     NVR enters into optional and mandatory forward delivery contracts to sell
mortgage-backed securities at specific prices and dates to broker/dealers.  NVR
has established policies governing which broker/dealers can be used to conduct
these activities.  Credit risk associated with forward contracts is limited to
the replacement cost of those forward contracts in a gain position, and at
December 31, 1999 and 1998 there were no such positions.  There were no
counterparty default losses on forward contracts in 1999, 1998 or 1997.  Market
risk with respect to forward contracts arises from changes in the value of
contractual positions due to fluctuations in interest rates.   NVR limits its
exposure to market risk by monitoring differences between the total of
commitments to customers and loans held for sale and forward contracts with
broker/dealers.  In the event NVR has forward delivery contract commitments in
excess of available mortgage-backed securities, NVR completes the transaction by
either paying or receiving a fee to/from the broker/dealer equal to the
increase/decrease in the market value of the forward contract.  NVR has no
market risk associated with optional delivery contracts because NVR has the
right but not the obligation to deliver mortgage backed securities to
broker/dealers under these contracts.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

5.   Property, Plant and Equipment, net



     Included in Homebuilding property, plant and equipment are amounts for land
totaling $260 and $1,732 at December 31, 1999 and 1998.

     Certain property, plant and equipment listed above are collateral for
various debt of NVR and certain of its subsidiaries as more fully described in
note 6.

6.   Debt
                                                            December 31,
                                                         ------------------
                                                           1999      1998
                                                         --------  --------
       Homebuilding:
          Notes payable:
          Working capital revolving credit (a)           $      -  $      -
          Other (b)                                         2,128     4,054
                                                         --------  --------
                                                         $  2,128  $  4,054
                                                         ========  ========
          Other term debt:
          Capital lease and financing obligations
           due in monthly installments
           through 2014 (c)                              $  5,206  $  5,434
                                                         ========  ========
          Senior notes (d)                               $145,000  $145,000
                                                         ========  ========
       Mortgage Banking:
          Mortgage warehouse revolving credit (e)        $107,588  $145,496
          Mortgage repurchase facility (f)                 17,363    19,868
          Capital lease and financing
           obligations due in monthly
           installments through 2004 (c)                      848       485
                                                         --------  --------

                                                         $125,799  $165,849
                                                         ========  ========

(a)  In September 1998, the Company, as borrower, succeeded to the obligations
of NVR Homes, Inc. under the unsecured working capital revolving credit facility
as amended and restated (the "Facility"). This Facility currently provides for
unsecured borrowings up to $100,000 (of which $60,000 is committed), subject to
certain borrowing base limitations, and is generally available to fund working
capital needs of NVR's homebuilding segment. Up to approximately $24,000 of the
Facility is currently available for issuance in the form of letters of credit of
which $12,542 and $11,719 were issued at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. The Facility expires May 31, 2002 and outstanding amounts bear
interest at the election of the Company, at (i) the base rate of interest
announced by the Facility agent or (ii) 1.35% above the Eurodollar



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Rate. The weighted average interest rates for the amounts outstanding under the
Facility were 6.5% and 7.2% for 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     The Facility contains numerous operating and financial covenants, including
required levels of net worth, fixed charge coverage ratios, and several other
covenants related to the construction operations of NVR.  In addition, the
Facility contains restrictions on the ability of NVR to, among other things,
incur debt and make investments.  Also, the Facility prohibits NVR from paying
dividends to shareholders.

(b)  Other notes payable as of December 31, 1999 is principally comprised of a
$1,530 note payable issued in connection with the acquisition of Fox Ridge in
1997. The weighted average interest rate was 6.9% and 7.5% during 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

(c)  The capital lease and financing obligations have either fixed or variable
interest rates ranging from 3.0% to 13.0% and are collateralized by land,
buildings and equipment with a net book value of approximately $6,700 and $4,700
at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     During December 1998, the Company exercised its option to purchase two
office buildings previously utilized by NVR for certain administrative functions
of both its homebuilding and mortgage banking segments, thereby extinguishing
the Company's obligations under the capital lease pertaining to these buildings.
The Company expended funds of $12,295, excluding accrued interest, to extinguish
the capital lease obligation, which resulted in an extraordinary loss of $2,275,
net of a $1,424 tax benefit,  ($0.17 per diluted share), in the accompanying
consolidated income statements.  During 1999, the Company sold both buildings to
an unrelated third party and leased back one of the buildings for a five-year
term expiring in 2004.  There was no resultant material gain or loss on the sale
transaction.

     The following schedule provides future minimum lease payments under all
financing and capital leases together with the present value as of December 31,
1999:


                            Years ending December 31:
                     ---------------------------------------
                     2000                            $ 1,355
                     2001                              1,074
                     2002                                968
                     2003                                949
                     2004                                853
                     Thereafter                        6,496
                                                     -------
                                                      11,695
                     Amount representing interest      5,641
                                                     -------
                                                     $ 6,054
                                                     =======


(d)  On January 20, 1998, the Company filed a shelf registration statement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission for the issuance of up to $400,000 of the
Company's debt securities. The shelf registration statement was declared
effective on February 27, 1998 and provides that securities may be offered from
time to time in one or more series, and in the form of senior or subordinated
debt.

     On April 14, 1998, the Company completed an offering under the shelf
registration statement for $145,000 of senior notes due 2005 (the "New Senior
Notes"), resulting in aggregate net proceeds to the Company of approximately
$142,800 after fees and expenses.  The New Senior Notes mature on June 1, 2005
and bear interest at 8%, payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each
year, commencing June 1, 1998.  The New Senior Notes are senior unsecured
obligations of the Company, ranking equally in right of payment with the
Company's other existing and future unsecured indebtedness. The New Senior Notes
are redeemable at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time on
or after June 1, 2003 at redemption prices ranging from 104% of par in 2003 to
par beginning in 2005.  An additional $30,000 in principal is available for
issuance under the New Senior Note offering.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     The indenture governing the New Senior Notes has, among other items,
limitations on asset sales by NVR and requires that NVR, on a consolidated
basis, maintain a net worth of at least $80,000.  In addition, the indenture
limits dividends, certain investments and NVR's ability to incur additional debt
if NVR is in default under the indenture or if NVR does not meet certain fixed
charge coverage ratios.

     Through a tender offer commenced on April 21, 1998 and completed May 18,
1998, various open market purchases throughout 1998 and a contractual call
exercised on December 1, 1998, the Company repurchased all of the $120,000 in
aggregate principal outstanding under the Company's 11% Senior Notes due 2003
("Senior Notes").  The Senior Notes were retired upon purchase.  The amount of
funds expended to complete the Senior Note Repurchase totaled $129,345,
excluding accrued interest, and resulted in the recognition of an extraordinary
loss of $7,126, net of a $4,461 tax benefit, ($0.54 per diluted share), in the
accompanying consolidated income statements.

(e)  The mortgage warehouse facility ("Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit") of
NVR Finance has a borrowing limit at December 31, 1999 of $225,000 of which
$200,000 is committed. The interest rate under the Mortgage Warehouse Revolving
Credit agreement is either: (i) the London Interbank Offering Rate ("Libor")
plus either 1.25% or 1.75% depending on the type of collateral, or (ii) 1.25% or
1.75% to the extent that NVR Finance provides compensating balances and
depending on the type of collateral. The weighted average interest rates for
amounts outstanding under the Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit line were 5.8%
and 5.2% during 1999 and 1998, respectively. Primarily mortgage loans and
gestation mortgage-backed securities collateralize the Mortgage Warehouse
Revolving Credit agreement. The Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit Agreement is
an annually renewable facility and currently expires in July 2000.

     The Mortgage Warehouse Revolving Credit agreement includes, among other
items, restrictions on NVR Finance incurring additional borrowings and making
intercompany dividends and tax payments.  In addition, NVR Finance is required
to maintain a minimum net worth.

(f)  NVR Finance from time to time enters into various gestation and repurchase
agreements. NVR Finance currently has available an aggregate of $175,000 of
borrowing capacity in such uncommitted facilities. Amounts outstanding
thereunder accrue interest at various rates tied to the Libor rate and are
collateralized by gestation mortgage-backed securities and whole loans. The
uncommitted facilities generally require NVR Finance to, among other items,
maintain a minimum net worth and limit its level of liabilities in relation to
its net worth. The weighted average interest rates for amounts outstanding under
these uncommitted facilities were 5.5% and 6.5% during 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

                                   * * * * *

     Maturities with respect to the other notes payable, other term debt, and
the New Senior Notes as of December 31, 1999 are as follows:

                                Years ending December 31:
                         --------------------------------------
                         2000                          $  2,789
                         2001                               534
                         2002                               419
                         2003                               424
                         2004                               372
                         Thereafter                     148,644

     The $148,644 maturing after 2004 includes $145,000 in New Senior Notes
which mature in June 2005.

     NVR Finance's mortgage warehouse facility limits the ability of NVR Finance
to transfer funds to



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

NVR in the form of dividends, loans or advances. NVR Finance had net assets of
$11,500 as of December 31, 1999 that were so restricted.

     At December 31, 1999, the homebuilding and mortgage banking segments had
restricted cash of $907 and $9,780, respectively, which includes certain
customer deposits, mortgagor tax, insurance, completion escrows and other
amounts collected at closing which relates to mortgage loans held for sale and
to home sales.

7.   Common Stock

     There were 9,171,608 and 10,385,839 common shares outstanding at December
31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  As of December 31, 1999, NVR had reacquired a
total of 12,536,969 shares of NVR common shares at an aggregate cost of $252,346
since December 31, 1993.  Approximately 1,100,000 common shares have been
reissued from the treasury in satisfaction of employee benefit liabilities.  The
average cost basis for the aggregate number of shares reissued from the treasury
was $13.32 per share.  In addition, approximately 492,000 stock options were
exercised during 1999 with NVR realizing $1,529 in equity proceeds.

8.   Income Taxes

     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

                      Year Ended          Year Ended          Year Ended
                  December 31, 1999   December 31, 1998   December 31, 1997
                  ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
     Current:
       Federal          $72,664            $ 47,632             $22,539
       State             15,578               7,555               3,101
     Deferred:
       Federal           (8,374)            (10,031)             (1,030)
       State             (3,537)               (896)                401
                        -------            --------             -------
                        $76,331            $ 44,260             $25,011
                        =======            ========             =======

     In addition to amounts applicable to income before taxes, the following
income tax benefits were recorded in shareholders' equity:



     Deferred income taxes on NVR's consolidated balance sheets are comprised of
the following:

                                              December 31,
                                            ----------------
                                             1999     1998
                                            -------  -------
          Total deferred tax assets         $43,267  $33,365
          Less: deferred tax liabilities      5,349    8,035
                                            -------  -------
                                            $37,918  $25,330
                                            =======  =======

     Deferred tax assets arise principally as a result of various accruals
required for financial reporting purposes and deferred compensation, which are
not currently deductible for tax return purposes.  Deferred tax liabilities
arose at September 30,1993 upon the Company's implementation of "fresh start"
accounting.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)


     Management believes the Company will have sufficient available carry-backs
and future taxable income to make it more likely than not that the net deferred
tax asset will be realized.  Taxable income was $195,790 and $110,357 for the
years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.

     A reconciliation of income tax expense in the accompanying statements of
income to the amount computed by applying the statutory Federal income tax rate
to income before income taxes, discontinued operations and extraordinary gains
is as follows:



     The merger of NVR Homes, Inc. and NVR Financial Services, Inc. into the
Company on September 30, 1998 allowed the Company to utilize a separate return
limitation year net operating loss ("SRLY NOL") generated by the Company's
previously owned savings and loan institution, NVR Savings Bank.  As a result,
the Company recognized a $3,300 tax benefit during 1998.  The SRLY NOL has been
fully utilized and there remains no unused carryforward.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

9.   Profit Sharing and Incentive Plans

     Profit Sharing Plans--NVR has a trustee-administered, profit sharing
retirement plan (the "Profit Sharing Plan") and an Employee Stock Ownership Plan
("ESOP") covering substantially all employees.  The Profit Sharing Plan and the
ESOP provide for annual contributions in amounts as determined by the NVR Board
of Directors (the "Board").  The combined plan expense for the years ended
December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $7,712, $6,436 and $3,081, respectively.
During 1999 and 1998, the ESOP purchased in the open market 105,440 and 111,902
shares respectively of NVR common stock using cash contributions provided by
NVR.  As of December 31, 1999, all shares held by the ESOP have been committed
to be released to participant accounts.

     Management Incentive Plans--Management long-term incentive plans provide
several types of equity incentives to NVR's executives and managers.  The equity
incentives take the form of stock options and performance share awards as
described below.  Stock options issued under the management long-term incentive
plans are issued with an exercise price equal to the market value of the
underlying shares on the date of grant.

     Under the Management Incentive Plan adopted by the Board in 1993,
participants received options to purchase a total of 1,117,949 NVR shares (the
"1993 NVR Share Options").  The 1993 NVR Share Options issued under the
Management Incentive Plan were fully vested as of December 31, 1996, and
generally expire 10 years after the dates upon which they were granted.

     Under the 1994 Management Incentive Plan (the "1994 Incentive Plan"),
executive officers and other key employees of the Company were eligible to
receive stock options (the "1994 NVR Share Options") and performance shares (the
"1994 Performance Shares").  There were 48,195 1994 NVR Share Options and
1,124,929 1994 Performance Shares authorized for grant under the 1994 Incentive
Plan.  The 1994 NVR Share Options generally expire 10 years after the dates upon
which they were granted, and generally vest in one-third increments on each of
December 31, 1997, 1998 and 1999, with vesting based upon continued employment.
All 1,124,929 1994 Performance Shares have been granted to employees under the
1994 Incentive Plan, and all 1994 Performance Shares have vested.  For the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, compensation expense recognized for the
1994 Performance Shares totaled $18,670, $9,081 and $7,986, respectively.

     During 1996, the Company's Shareholders approved the Board of Directors'
adoption of the Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan (the "1996 Option Plan").
There are 2,000,000 non-qualified stock options ("Options") authorized under the
Management Long Term Stock Option Plan.  The Options generally expire 10 years
after the dates upon which they were granted, and vest in one-third increments
on each of December 31, 2000, 2001 and 2002, with vesting based upon continued
employment.

     During 1999, the Company's Shareholders approved the Board of Directors'
adoption of the 1998 Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan (the "1998
Management Long Term Stock Option Plan").  There are 1,000,000 non-qualified
stock options ("Options") authorized under the 1998 Management Long Term Stock
Option Plan.  The Options generally expire 10 years after the dates upon which
they were granted, and vest in one-third increments on each of December 31,
2003, 2004 and 2005, with vesting based upon continued employment.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)







                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)



*None of the options outstanding under the 1996 and 1998 Option Plans is
 exercisable at December 31, 1999.

     The weighted average fair values of grants made in 1999, 1998 and 1997
for management incentive plans were $29.41, $18.65 and $10.13, respectively.
The fair values of the options granted were estimated on the grant date using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model based on the following weighted average
assumptions:


                                  1999       1998       1997
                                ---------  ---------  ---------

     Estimated option life      10 years   10 years   10 years
     Risk free interest rate        5.94%      5.52%      6.79%
     Expected volatility           40.19%     45.14%     35.16%
     Expected dividend yield         0.0%       0.0%       0.0%

   Director Incentive Plans--The NVR Directors' Long Term Incentive Plan ("1993
Directors' Plan") provides for each eligible director to be granted options to
purchase 22,750 shares of common stock with a maximum number of shares issuable
under the plan of 364,000.  There were 182,000 Directors' Options granted to
eligible directors on September 30, 1993 at a grant price of $16.60 per share,
which exceeded the fair value of the underlying shares on the date of grant.
The options became exercisable six months after the date of grant and expire in
September 2003.  Pursuant to the 1993 Directors' Plan, each outside director
also received a one-time cash payment of $200 during 1997 for the achievement of
certain goals under a five-year measurement period beginning September 30, 1993.

     There were 192,000 NVR share options authorized and granted in 1996 to the
Company's outside directors under the Directors' Long Term Stock Option Plan
(the "1996 Directors' Plan").  There are no additional options available for
grant under this plan.  The option exercise price for the options granted was
$10.25 per share, which was equal to the fair market value of the Company's
Shares on the date of grant.  The Options were granted for a 10-year period
beginning from the date of grant, and vest in one-third increments on each of
December 31, 1999, 2000, and 2001.  There were 24,000 previously unvested 1996
Directors' Options exercised during 1998, pursuant to a separation of service
due to death clause within the 1996 Directors' Plan.

     There were 150,000 NVR share options authorized for grant in 1999 to the
Company's outside directors under the 1998 Directors' Long Term Stock Option
Plan (the "1998 Directors' Plan").  A total of 87,500 options were granted at an
exercise price of $49.06, which was equal to the fair market value of the
Company's Shares on the date of grant.  The Options were granted for a 10 year
period beginning from the date of grant, and vest in twenty-five percent (25%)
increments on each of December 31, 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)




     The weighted average grant-date fair value of the options granted during
1999 under director incentive plans was $30.48 per share.  The fair value was
calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, under the following
assumptions: i) the estimated option life was equal to ten years, ii) the risk
free interest rate was 5.77%, iii) the expected volatility equaled 40.19%, and
iv) the estimated dividend yield was 0%.

     SFAS No. 123 requires companies who continue to apply Opinion 25 to account
for their stock-based employee compensation arrangements to provide pro forma
net income and earnings per share as if the fair value based method had been
used to account for compensation cost.  Accordingly, pro forma net income and
earnings per share would have been  $104,122 ($8.61 per diluted share), $55,352
($4.16 per diluted share), and $27,637 ($2.09 per diluted share) for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, if the Company had
accounted for its stock based employee compensation arrangements using the fair
value method.  The 1999, 1998 and 1997 effects of applying SFAS No. 123  for
providing pro forma disclosures are not likely to be representative of the
effects on reported net income and earnings per share for future years because
the number of option grants and the fair value assigned to future grants could
differ.

10.  Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

     NVR is committed under several non-cancelable operating leases involving
office space, manufacturing facilities and equipment. Future minimum lease
payments under these operating leases as of December 31, 1999 are as follows:



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)



                            Years ended December 31,
                     --------------------------------------
                     2000                           $ 9,497
                     2001                             5,661
                     2002                             3,471
                     2003                             2,653
                     2004                             1,592
                     Thereafter                       3,688
                                                    -------
                                                    $26,562
                                                    =======

     Total rent expense incurred under operating leases was approximately
$10,800, $7,787, and $6,625 for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

     During the ordinary course of operating the mortgage banking and
homebuilding businesses, NVR is required to enter into bond or letter of credit
arrangements with local municipalities, government agencies, or land developers
to collateralize its obligations under various contracts.  NVR had approximately
$21,722 of contingent obligations under such agreements as of December 31, 1999.
NVR believes it will fulfill its obligations under the related contracts and
does not anticipate any losses under these bonds or letters of credit.

     NVR and its subsidiaries are also involved in litigation arising from the
normal course of business. In the opinion of management, and based on advice of
legal counsel, this litigation will not have any material adverse effect on the
financial position or results of operations of NVR.


11.  Mortgage-Backed Securities, net of Mortgage-Backed Bonds, and Related
     Assets and Liabilities

     Mortgage-backed securities ("MBS") serve as collateral for the related
mortgage-backed bonds ("Bonds") sold to third parties.  The MBS cannot be sold
except upon specified call dates of the Bonds.  The calling of the Bonds at
those dates is solely at the option of the Company.  Principal and interest
payments on the MBS are used to make the quarterly payments on the Bonds.  In
addition, prepayments of the underlying MBS are passed through as repayments of
the Bonds so that the Bonds may be fully paid prior to their stated maturities.
The Bonds are not guaranteed by NVR or any of its subsidiaries, other than the
issuing Limited-Purpose Financing Subsidiary.

     A trustee for the benefit of the bondholders holds the MBS and the reserve
amounts, which constitute the collateral for the Bonds of a series.  The
specific collateral pledged to secure a particular series is not available as
collateral for any other series.  In addition, the Company may, under certain
circumstances, redeem certain series of Bonds.  In such certain circumstances,
the Bonds are redeemed at par and any market appreciation or depreciation
accrues to the Company.

          During 1998, NVR sold, at a premium, MBS totaling $9,080, the proceeds
of which were used to redeem in full the related outstanding Bonds, which
totaled $8,855.  The sales of the MBS resulted in a pre-tax gain of $608, which
was substantially offset by a pre-tax loss on the related Bonds of $315.  During
1997, NVR sold, at a premium, MBS totaling $15,126, the proceeds of which were
used to redeem in full the related outstanding Bonds which totaled $14,074.  The
sales of the MBS resulted in a pre-tax gain of $590, which was partially offset
by a pre-tax loss on the related Bonds of $552.  There were no Bond calls during
1999.



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)

     The following comprise the assets and liabilities of the Limited Purpose
Financing Subsidiary:

                                                           December 31,
                                                          --------------
                                                           1999    1998
                                                          ------  ------
     Assets:
     Mortgage-backed securities, net                      $5,110  $7,438
     Funds held by trustee                                    83      74
     Other assets                                            257     584
                                                          ------  ------
      Total assets                                         5,450   8,096
                                                          ------  ------

     Liabilities:
     Accrued expenses and other liabilities                  211     405
     Mortgage-backed bonds, net unamortized discounts      5,229   7,681
                                                          ------  ------
      Total liabilities                                    5,440   8,086
                                                          ------  ------

     Mortgage-backed securities, net of mortgage-
      backed bonds, and related assets and liabilities    $   10  $   10
                                                          ======  ======


     The weighted average portfolio yield on the MBS was 8.9% and 9.0% at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The Bonds mature on October 1, 2016
and bear interest at 9.0%.  However, NVR has the contractual right to call the
Bonds in 2001.


12.  Acquisition

     On March 4, 1999, NVR Mortgage Acquisition, Inc. ("NVRMA"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of NVR Finance, NVR's wholly owned mortgage banking subsidiary,
purchased all of the outstanding capital stock of First Republic Mortgage
Corporation ("First Republic") for approximately $5,300 in cash and the
assumption of approximately $78,000 of liabilities and debt.  First Republic,
based in Rockville, Maryland, is a leading mortgage lender in the Baltimore and
Washington Metropolitan area.   NVRMA accounted for this acquisition using the
purchase method, and the operations of the acquired business have been included
in NVR's 1999 consolidated financial statements beginning on the date of the
acquisition.  Goodwill of approximately $3,300 that was generated pursuant to
the purchase transaction is being amortized using the straight-line method over
5 years.

     The following unaudited pro forma summary of combined operations was
prepared to illustrate the estimated effects of the 1999 acquisition of First
Republic as if such acquisition had occurred on the first day of the respective
periods presented.


                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                 -----------------------
                                                   1999           1998
                                                   ----           ----
     Mortgage banking fees                       $ 52,587       $68,230
     Net income                                   108,241        55,654
     Diluted earnings per share before
      extraordinary loss                             8.95          4.89


     NVR Fox Ridge, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of NVR, was formed during
1997 to purchase substantially all of the assets and assume certain liabilities
of Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("FRH"), a leading homebuilder in Nashville, Tennessee.
NVR Fox Ridge, Inc. was renamed Fox Ridge Homes, Inc. ("Fox Ridge") in November
1997.  To consummate the purchase on October 31, 1997, Fox Ridge assumed
approximately $15,160 of FRH's liabilities, paid FRH $14,250 in cash at
settlement on October 31, 1997, and



                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)


issued a note payable for the remaining $4,750 purchase price. The note bears
interest at 200 basis points above the federal funds target rate. The first two
annual installments were paid on October 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively,
including accrued interest. The remaining installment will be paid on October
31, 2000.

     Fox Ridge accounted for this acquisition using the purchase method, and the
operations of the acquired business have been included in NVR's consolidated
statements of income since its acquisition.  Goodwill that was generated
pursuant to the purchase transaction is being amortized using the straight-line
method over 10 years.

     The following unaudited pro forma summary of combined operations was
prepared to illustrate the estimated effects of the 1997 acquisition of Fox
Ridge as if such acquisition had occurred on the first day of the 1997 period.

                                   Year Ended December 31,
                                            ----
     Homebuilding revenues               $1,192,684
     Net income                              29,343
     Diluted earnings per share                2.22


13.  Quarterly Results [unaudited]

     The following table sets forth unaudited selected financial data and
operating information on a quarterly basis for the years ended December 31, 1999
and 1998.

                                       Year Ended December 31, 1999
                                  --------------------------------------
                                    1st       2nd       3rd       4th
                                  Quarter   Quarter   Quarter   Quarter
                                  --------  --------  --------  --------
Revenues-homebuilding
 operations                       $429,687  $492,058  $523,552  $497,363
Gross profit - homebuilding
 operations                       $ 73,143  $ 83,891  $ 90,172  $ 84,727
Mortgage banking fees             $ 13,522  $ 12,465  $ 13,162  $  8,973
Net income                        $ 26,007  $ 28,263  $ 30,341  $ 24,270
Diluted earnings per share        $   2.02  $   2.26  $   2.52  $   2.18
Contracts for sale, net
 of cancellations (units)            2,541     2,855     1,866     2,416
Settlements (units)                  2,098     2,424     2,516     2,278
Backlog, end of period (units)       5,016     5,447     4,797     4,935
Loans closed                      $779,406  $869,774  $675,593  $587,092




                                   NVR, Inc.
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)




