
10-K405
FORM 10-K




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 For the fiscal year ended January 29, 2000 or

[ ]  Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 For the transition period from ______________
to ______________

                         Commission File Number 1-7562

                                 THE GAP, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                                 94-1697231
     -----------------------                   ----------------------
     (State of Incorporation)                     (I.R.S. Employer
                                                 Identification No.)
                              One Harrison Street
                        San Francisco, California 94105
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 427-2000

                            -----------------------

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

        Common Stock, $0.05 par value       New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                (Title of class)               Pacific Exchange, Inc.
                                      (Name of each exchange where registered)

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

                            -----------------------

     Indicate by check mark whether registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes   X      No
                                               -----       -----

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate market value of the common equity held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of March 10, 2000 was approximately $24,479,000,000 based upon
the last price reported for such date in the NYSE-Composite transactions.

     The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding as of
March 10, 2000 was 851,577,689.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on May 5, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as the "2000
Proxy Statement") are incorporated into Parts I and III.

     Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal
year ended January 29, 2000 (hereinafter referred to as the "1999 Annual Report
to Shareholders") are incorporated into Parts II and IV.

                The Exhibit Index is located on Page 12 hereof.


         This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated herein
by reference contain certain forward-looking statements which reflect the
Company's current view with respect to future events and financial performance.
Whenever used, the words "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe" and similar
expressions identify forward-looking statements.

         Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties and the Company's future results of operations could differ
materially from historical results or current expectations. Some of these risks
are discussed in Item 1 of this report below, and include, without limitation,
ongoing competitive pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with
challenging international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer
spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or
financial instability in countries where the Company's goods are manufactured,
disruption to operations from Year 2000 issues and/or other factors that may be
described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and
profitability are difficult to predict.

         The Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its
forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear
that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.


                                    PART I
                                    ------

Item 1 - Business

General
- -------

         The Gap, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company") is a
global specialty retailer which operates stores selling casual apparel, personal
care and other accessories for men, women and children under the Gap, Banana
Republic and Old Navy brands. As of February 26, 2000, the Company operated
3,058 stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany
and Japan.

         The Company designs virtually all of its products, which in turn are
manufactured by independent sources, and sells them under its brands in the
following store formats:

              Gap. Founded in 1969, Gap stores offer extensive selections of
         classically-styled, high quality, casual apparel at moderate price
         points. Products range from wardrobe basics, such as denim, khakis and
         T-shirts, to accessories and personal care products for men and women
         aged teen through adult. The Company entered the children's apparel
         market with the introduction of GapKids in 1986 and babyGap in 1989.
         These stores offer casual basics, outerwear, shoes and other
         accessories in the tradition of Gap style and quality for children aged
         newborn through teen. As of February 26, 2000, the Company operated a
         total of 1,781 Gap brand stores in the United States, including 115
         Outlet stores. Gap brand stores outside the United States total 400.

              Banana Republic. Acquired in 1983 with two stores, Banana Republic
         now offers sophisticated, fashionable collections of dress-casual and
         tailored clothing and accessories for men and women at higher price
         points. Banana Republic products range from clothing, including
         intimate apparel, to personal care products and home products. As of
         February 26, 2000, the Company operated 347 Banana Republic stores,
         including 10 in Canada and 18 outlet stores.

              Old Navy. The Company launched Old Navy in 1994 to address the
         market for value-priced family apparel. Old Navy offers broad
         selections of apparel, shoes and accessories for adults, children and
         infants, as well as other items including personal care products, in an
         innovative, exciting shopping environment. As of February 26, 2000, the
         Company operated 530 Old Navy stores.

         The Company established Gap Online in 1997, a web-based store located
at www.gap.com. GapKids and babyGap web-based stores, located at www.gapkids.com
and www.babygap.com, were established in 1998. Products



from Gap, GapKids and babyGap stores can be purchased online. Banana Republic
introduced a catalog format in 1998 and Banana Republic Online, a web-based
store located at www.bananarepublic.com, in 1999. Both of the new Banana
Republic formats offer clothing and accessories comparable to those carried in
the store collections. Also, in 1999 the Company established Old Navy Online, a
promotional website located at www.oldnavy.com. The Company plans to begin
operating Old Navy Online as a web-based store during 2000. The online and
catalog business is offered as an extension of our store experience and is
intended to strengthen our relationship with our customers.


         The Company was incorporated in the State of California in July 1969
and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in May 1988.

Customer Preferences; Impact of Economic Conditions
- ---------------------------------------------------

         The retail apparel business fluctuates according to changes in customer
preferences dictated in part by fashion and season. In addition, certain
economic conditions affect the level of consumer spending on merchandise offered
by the Company, including, among others, business conditions, interest rates,
taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Customer
preferences and economic conditions may differ or change from time to time in
each market in which the Company operates.

Merchandise Inventory, Replenishment and Distribution
- -----------------------------------------------------

         Fluctuations in the retail apparel business especially affect the
inventory owned by apparel retailers, since merchandise usually must be ordered
well in advance of the season and sometimes before fashion trends are evidenced
by customer purchases. In addition, the cyclical nature of the retail business
requires the Company to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially
prior to peak selling seasons when the Company and other retailers generally
build up their inventory levels. The Company must enter into contracts for the
purchase and manufacture of apparel well in advance of the applicable selling
season. As a result, the Company is vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and
to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases.

         The Company reviews its inventory levels in order to identify slow-
moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a
sufficient range of sizes) and uses markdowns to clear merchandise. Markdowns
may be used if inventory exceeds customer demand for reasons of style, seasonal
adaptation, changes in customer preference or lack of consumer acceptance of
fashion items, or if it is determined that the inventory in stock will not sell
at its currently marked price. Such markdowns may have an adverse impact on
earnings, depending on the extent of the markdowns and amount of inventory
affected.

         Because the Company does not carry much replenishment inventory in its
stores, much of the inventory is maintained in the Company's distribution
centers in California, Kentucky, Maryland, Ohio, Tennessee, Canada, England and
The Netherlands, and in distribution centers operated by third parties in
California, Kentucky, Japan and England, and then shipped to the stores.

Store Operations and Expansion
- ------------------------------

         The Company's stores offer a shopper-friendly environment with an
assortment of casual clothing and accessories which emphasize style, quality and
good value. The range of apparel displayed in each store varies significantly
depending on the selling season and the size and location of the store.

         The Company's stores generally are open seven days per week (where
permitted by law), three to six nights per week and most holidays. All sales are
tendered for cash, personal checks or credit cards issued by others, including a
Banana Republic private label credit card.

         The Company's continued success depends, in part, upon its ability to
increase sales at existing store locations, to open new stores and to operate
stores on a profitable basis. There can be no assurance that the Company's
growth will result in enhanced profitability or that it will continue at the
same rate in future years.



International Expansion
- -----------------------

         The Company continued to expand internationally in fiscal 1999. It is
faced with competition in European and Japanese markets from established
regional and national chains. If international expansion is not successful, the
Company's results of operations could be adversely affected. The Company's
ability to grow successfully in the continental European market will depend in
part on determining a sustainable profit formula to build brand loyalty and gain
market share in the especially challenging retail environments of France and
Germany.

         Certain financial information about international operations is set
forth in Note A to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, incorporated by
reference in Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Suppliers
- ---------

         The Company purchases merchandise from approximately 1,200 suppliers
located domestically and overseas. No supplier accounted for more than 5% of the
Company's fiscal 1999 purchases. Of the Company's merchandise sold during fiscal
1999, approximately 22% of all units (representing approximately 16% of total
cost) were produced domestically while the remaining 78% of all units (84% of
cost) were made outside the United States. Approximately 12% of the Company's
total merchandise units (representing 16% of cost) was from China, including
Hong Kong, with the remainder coming from 55 other countries. Any event causing
a sudden disruption of imports from China or other foreign countries, including
the imposition of additional import restrictions, could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's operations. Substantially all of the Company's foreign
purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars.

         The Company cannot predict whether any of the countries in which its
products currently are manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be
subject to trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, including the
likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions,
including increased tariffs or quotas, or both, against apparel items could
increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to the Company and
adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operations. The Company pursues a diversified global sourcing strategy that
includes relationships with vendors in over 50 countries. These sourcing
operations may be adversely affected by political and financial instability
resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant
fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies,
restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions.

Seasonal Business
- -----------------

         The Company's business follows a seasonal pattern, peaking over a total
of about 10-13 weeks during the Back-to-School (mid-August through early
September) and Holiday (November through December) periods. During fiscal year
1999, these periods accounted for approximately 36% of the Company's annual
sales.

Competition
- -----------

         The Company's business is highly competitive. The Company competes with
national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains,
independent retail stores and internet and catalog businesses which handle
similar lines of merchandise. Some competitors have more resources than the
Company. The Company's online business has limited operating history and is
faced with competition from other online apparel retailers. In addition, certain
other online retailers, some of whom have greater resources than the Company,
may enter the online apparel market, further increasing competition. There is no
guarantee that consumers will embrace shopping for apparel online or that the
Company's online business will be profitable. Given the large number of
companies in the retail industry, the Company cannot estimate the number of its
competitors.

         Depth of selection in sizes, colors and styles of merchandise,
merchandise procurement and pricing, ability to anticipate fashion trends and
customer preferences, inventory control, reputation, quality of merchandise,
store design and location, advertising and customer service are all important
factors in competing successfully in the retail industry.



         The performance of the Company in recent years has increased the amount
of imitation by other retailers. Such imitation has made and will continue to
make the retail environment in which the Company operates more competitive. In
addition, the success of the Company's operations depends upon a number of
factors relating to consumer spending, including future economic conditions
affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, business conditions,
interest rates and taxation. A decline in consumer spending on apparel could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's net sales and profitability.

Brand Building
- --------------

         The ability of the Company to continually change and evolve its brands
is a key source of competitive advantage and the Company believes its three
distinct brands are among its most important assets. All aspects of brand
development -from product design and distribution, to marketing, merchandising
and shopping environments - are controlled by the Company. The Company continues
to invest in the development of its brands through advertising spending, the
establishment of an online presence and the opening of flagship stores. The
Company has also made investments to enhance the customer experience through the
opening of new stores, the expansion and remodeling of existing stores, and a
focus on customer service.

Advertising
- -----------

         The Company places print ads in major metropolitan newspapers and their
Sunday magazines, major news weeklies and lifestyle and fashion magazines. The
Company's ads also appeared in various outdoor venues, such as mass transit
posters, exterior bus panels, bus shelters and gigantic billboards spanning
entire buildings. The Company continues to run TV ads for all of its brands and
radio ads for Old Navy. The Company plans to continue its investments in
advertising and marketing in 2000. There can be no assurances that these
investments will result in increased sales or profitability.

Employees
- ---------

         On January 29, 2000, the Company had a work force of approximately
140,000 employees. The Company also hires temporary employees during the peak
Back-to-School and Holiday seasons. The Company considers its employee relations
to be good.

Trademarks and Service Marks
- ----------------------------

         The Gap, GapKids, babyGap, Banana Republic and Old Navy trademarks and
service marks, and certain other trademarks, either have been registered, or are
the subject of pending trademark applications, with the United States Patent and
Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries.

Year 2000 Issue
- ---------------

         The Year 2000 issue is primarily the result of computer programs using
a two-digit format, as opposed to four digits, to indicate the year.

         The Company has noticed no material impact to its operations as a
result of transition to the Year 2000. Problems relating to the Year 2000 issue
could still arise. However, the Company does not believe that the Year 2000
issue will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results
of operations. The Company operates a large number of geographically dispersed
stores and has a large supplier base and believes that these factors will
mitigate any adverse impact.

         The Company's beliefs and expectations, however, are based on certain
assumptions and expectations that ultimately may prove to be inaccurate,
including the Year 2000 viability of sourcing countries, and compliance of
third-party vendors and suppliers. The Company has identified that a significant
disruption in the product supply chain represents the most reasonably likely
worst case Year 2000 scenario. A substantial, extended disruption in the



product supply chain could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition and results of operations.

         To date, the Company has incurred $40 million to address the Year 2000
issue. The Company does not expect to incur significant additional costs in
connection with this issue.

Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

         The Chairman of the Company is Donald G. Fisher. Millard S. Drexler is
the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Both Donald G. Fisher
and Millard S. Drexler are directors of the Company and the required information
for each of them is set forth in the table located in the section entitled
"Nominees for Election as Directors" of the 2000 Proxy Statement and is
incorporated by reference herein. The following are also executive officers of
the Company:

         Name, Age, Position and Principal Occupation During Past Five Years:

         Charles K. Crovitz, 46, Executive Vice President, Supply Chain and
         Technology since September 1998; Senior Vice President of Strategy,
         Logistics and Information Systems from March 1998 to September 1998;
         Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning and Business Development
         from 1993 to March 1998. Joined the Company in 1993.

         Anne B. Gust, 42, Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Legal,
         Global Compliance and Corporate Administration since May 1999;
         Executive Vice President, Human Resources, Legal and Corporate
         Administration from September 1998 to May 1999; Senior Vice President
         and General Counsel from April 1994 to September 1998; Vice President
         and General Counsel from 1993 to 1994. Joined the Company in 1991.

         Heidi Kunz, 45, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
         since August 1999. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
         of ITT Industries from 1995 to 1999. Vice President and Treasurer of
         General Motors from 1994 to 1995.

         John B. Wilson, 40, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
         Officer since March 1998; Executive Vice President and Chief
         Administrative Officer from October 1996 to March 1998. Executive Vice
         President, Finance and Strategy and Chief Financial Officer of Staples,
         Inc. from 1992 to 1996.

Item 2 - Properties

         During fiscal year 1999, the Company opened 570 stores and closed 18.
The newly-opened stores include 281 domestic Gap stores, 18 domestic Gap Outlet
stores, 98 international Gap stores, 41 Banana Republic stores and 15 Banana
Republic Factory stores in the United States and 117 Old Navy stores in the
United States. In addition, during fiscal 1999, the Company expanded 68 domestic
Gap stores, 4 Gap Outlet stores, 28 international Gap stores, 21 Banana Republic
stores and 8 Old Navy stores. The 3,018 stores operating as of January 29, 2000
aggregated approximately 24 million square feet. The Company leases virtually
all of its store premises. Terms generally range from five to 15 years with one
or two five-year renewal options. Most leases provide for additional rent based
on a percentage of store sales above a certain level in addition to or in lieu
of minimum rentals, as well as for the payment of certain other expenses. Some
leases contain cancellation clauses in favor of the Company if specified sales
levels are not achieved. In the United States, the Company's stores are located
in the 50 largest metropolitan areas.

         The Company currently leases its regional offices and much of its
headquarters office space, including approximately 495,000 square feet in
buildings in San Francisco, California, 270,000 square feet in buildings in San
Bruno, California (near the San Francisco Airport), and 300,000 square feet in
buildings in New York City. The Company also leases its Eastern Distribution
Center/Kentucky Distribution Center complex (EDC/KDC) and certain other
distribution facilities. The EDC/KDC facilities in Erlanger, Kentucky (near
Cincinnati) consist of



approximately 725,000 square feet. Nearby Northern Kentucky facilities include
an approximately 325,000 square foot warehouse for consolidation/deconsolidation
purposes, an approximately 520,000 square foot warehouse for distribution
purposes, and an approximately 175,000 square foot warehouse for supply
purposes. The Company leases a temporary distribution facility of approximately
350,000 square feet in Baltimore, Maryland. The Company also leases a
warehouse/call center of approximately 270,000 square feet in Grove City, Ohio
(near Columbus), which services Gap Online and Banana Republic catalog and
Online; this facility is expected to be expanded to service other aspects of the
Company's direct-to-consumer business. The Company leases its Japan Distribution
Center (JDC), approximately 127,000 square feet, in Funabashi City, Chiba,
Japan. The JDC is operated by a third party. The Company also leases an
approximately 134,000 square foot warehouse in Essex, England and an
approximately 17,000 square foot facility also in Essex, England for supply and
distribution purposes.

         The Company purchased an approximately 160,000 square feet building in
San Francisco in 1999, owns an office facility in San Bruno of approximately
190,000 square feet and nearby land at that site which potentially could
accommodate up to an additional 290,000 square feet, and also owns an
office/computer facility of approximately 40,000 square feet in Rocklin,
California (near Sacramento). The Company currently is in the process of
developing an office building of approximately 540,000 square feet near its
existing facilities in San Francisco, and an office building of approximately
260,000 square feet near its existing leased and owned facilities in San Bruno.

         The Company owns distribution facilities in the following locations:



The sites in Ventura, California and Edgewood, Maryland have additional land
available for expansion or for additional facilities.

Item 3 - Legal Proceedings

         The Company has been named as a defendant in two lawsuits relating to
sourcing of products from Saipan (Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands).
A complaint was filed on January 13, 1999 in California Superior Court in San
Francisco by the Union of Needletrades Industrial and Textile Employees, AFL-
CIO; Global Exchange; Sweatshop Watch; and Asian Law Caucus against the Company
and 17 other parties. The plaintiffs allege violations of California's unlawful,
fraudulent and unfair business practices and untrue and misleading advertising
statutes in connection with labeling of product and labor practices regarding
workers of factories that make product for the Company in Saipan. The plaintiffs
seek injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement of profits and other damages.
Trial has not been set in the state case. A second complaint was filed on
January 13, 1999 in Federal District Court, Central District of California, by
various unidentified worker plaintiffs against the Company and 25 other parties.
Those unidentified worker plaintiffs seek class-action status and allege, among
other things, that the Company (and other defendants) violated the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act also in connection with the labor
practices and treatment of workers of factories in Saipan that make product for
the Company. The plaintiffs seek injunctive relief as well as actual and
punitive damages. On September 29, 1999 the action was transferred to the



United States District Court, State of Hawaii. On April 22, 1999 the Company,
along with several other defendants, filed a motion in Federal District Court,
Central District of California, to dismiss the case. That motion currently is
set for hearing on May 22, 2000. Trial in the Federal case has been set for
February 27, 2001.

         The Company also is a party to routine litigation incident to its
business. Some of the lawsuits to which the Company is a party are covered by
insurance and are being defended by the Company's insurance carriers.

         The Company has established reserves which management believes are
adequate to cover any litigation losses which may occur.

Item 4 - Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         Not applicable.


                                    PART II
                                    -------

Item 5 - Market For Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to page 26 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (Results book)
included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 6 - Selected Financial Data

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to pages 4 and 5 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (Results
book) included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to pages 6-10 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (Results book)
included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to page 11 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (Results book)
included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to pages 12-26 of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (Results
book) included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9 - Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on   Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

         Not applicable.


                                   PART III
                                   --------

Item 10 - Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled "Nominees for Election as Directors" in the
2000 Proxy Statement. See also Item 1 above in the section entitled "Executive
Officers of the Registrant."



Item 11 - Executive Compensation

          The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the sections entitled "Compensation of Directors," "Summary of
Executive Compensation," "Stock Options," "Employment Contracts," and
"Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" in the 2000 Proxy
Statement.

Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

          The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled "Beneficial Ownership of Shares" in the 2000
Proxy Statement.

Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

          The information required by this item is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled "Other Reportable Transactions" in the 2000
Proxy Statement.


                                    PART IV
                                    -------

Item 14 - Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules, and Reports On Form 8-K

          (a)   The following consolidated financial statements, schedules and
exhibits are filed as part of this report or are incorporated herein as
indicated.

                (1)   Financial Statements
                      --------------------

                      (i)  Independent Auditors' Report. Incorporated by
                           reference to page 12 of the 1999 Annual Report to
                           Shareholders (Results book) included as Exhibit 13 to
                           this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                      (ii) The consolidated balance sheets as of January 29,
                           2000 and January 30, 1999 and the related
                           consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders'
                           equity, cash flows, and notes thereto for each of the
                           three fiscal years in the period ended January 29,
                           2000 are incorporated by reference to pages 13-26 of
                           the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (Results book)
                           included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form
                           10-K.

                (2)   Financial Statement Schedules
                      -----------------------------

                      Schedules have been omitted because they are not required
                or are not applicable or because the information required to be
                set forth therein either is not material or is included in the
                financial statements or notes thereto.

                (3)   Exhibits
                      --------

                      Incorporated herein by reference is a list of the Exhibits
                contained in the Exhibit Index which begins on sequentially
                numbered page 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

          (b)   No reports on Form 8-K were filed or required to be filed for
the last quarter of the fiscal year.



                                  SIGNATURES
                                  ----------


          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   THE GAP, INC.



Date:  March 28, 2000              By /s/ MILLARD S. DREXLER
                                      ----------------------
                                      Millard S. Drexler,
                                      Chief Executive Officer
                                      (Principal Executive Officer)


Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ HEIDI KUNZ
                                      --------------
                                      Heidi Kunz,
                                      Executive Vice President
                                      and Chief Financial Officer
                                      (Principal Financial and Accounting
                                      Officer)


          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ ADRIAN D.P. BELLAMY
                                      -----------------------
                                      Adrian D. P. Bellamy, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ EVAN S. DOBELLE
                                      -------------------
                                      Evan S. Dobelle, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ MILLARD S. DREXLER
                                      ----------------------
                                      Millard S. Drexler, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ DONALD G. FISHER
                                      --------------------
                                      Donald G. Fisher, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ DORIS F. FISHER
                                      -------------------
                                      Doris F. Fisher, Director





     SIGNATURES (con't.)
     -------------------



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ ROBERT J. FISHER
                                      --------------------
                                      Robert J. Fisher, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ GLENDA A. HATCHETT
                                      ----------------------
                                      Glenda A. Hatchett, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ STEVEN P. JOBS
                                      ------------------
                                      Steven P. Jobs, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ JOHN M. LILLIE
                                      ------------------
                                      John M. Lillie, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ CHARLES R. SCHWAB
                                      ---------------------
                                      Charles R. Schwab, Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ BROOKS WALKER, JR.
                                      ----------------------
                                      Brooks Walker, Jr., Director



Date: March 28, 2000               By /s/ SERGIO S. ZYMAN
                                      -------------------
                                      Sergio S. Zyman, Director



Exhibit Index


3.1  Registrant's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed as
     Exhibit 3.1 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
     January 30, 1993, Commission File No. 1-7562.

3.2  Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated Certificate of
     Incorporation.

3.3  Registrant's By-Laws, filed as Exhibit C to Registrant's definitive proxy
     statement for its annual meeting of stockholders held on May 24, 1988,
     Commission File No. 1-7562

3.4  Amended Article IV of Registrant's By-Laws, filed as Exhibit 4.4 to
     Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission File No.
     333-00417

4    Indenture, dated September 1, 1997, between the Registrant and Harris Trust
     Company of California filed as Exhibit 4 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
     quarter ended November 1, 1997, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.1 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 29, 1999 between the
     Registrant; Citicorp USA Inc.; Salomon Smith Barney Inc.; Bank of America
     National Trust & Savings Association; HSBC Bank USA; Morgan Guaranty Trust
     Company of New York; Bank of Montreal; ABN Amro Bank N.V.; Deutsche Bank AG
     New York Branch and/or Cayman Islands Branch; Societe Generale; The
     Sumitomo Bank Limited; The First National Bank of Chicago; Fleet Bank;
     Wells Fargo Bank, National Association; The Bank of New York; The Fuji
     Bank, Limited; Royal Bank of Canada U.S. Bank National Association and
     Citibank, N.A. filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
     quarter ended July 31, 1999, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.2 Credit Agreement dated as of July 1, 1997 between the Registrant; Citicorp
     USA Inc.; Bank of America National; Trust & Savings Association; The
     Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited; Nationsbank of Texas,
     N.A.; The Royal Bank of Canada; Bank of Montreal; Societe Generale; The
     Fuji Bank, Limited; Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York; The Sumitomo
     Bank Limited; Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch and/or Cayman Islands
     Branch; Union Bank of Switzerland, New York Branch; U.S. National Bank of
     Oregon; and Citibank, N.A. filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended August 2, 1997, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.3 First Letter Agreement dated June 30, 1998 to the Credit Agreement dated
     July 1, 1997 filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registrant's Form 10-K for the year
     ended January 30, 1999, Commission File No. 1-7562


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS


10.5  1981 Stock Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Registration
      Statement on Form S-8, Commission File No. 33-54690

10.6  Management Incentive Restricted Stock Plan II, filed as exhibit 4.1 to
      Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission File No.
      33-54686

10.7  Description of Management Incentive Cash Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.34
      to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 29,
      1994, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.8  Executive Management Incentive Cash Award Plan (March 21, 1995 Amendment
      and Restatement), filed as Exhibit B to the Registrant's definitive proxy
      statement for its annual meeting of stockholders held on May 23, 1995,
      Commission File No. 1-7562

10.9  Executive Management Incentive Cash Award Plan (January 25, 2000 Amendment
      and Restatement), filed as Exhibit A to the Registrant's definitive proxy
      statement for its annual meeting of stockholders held on May 5, 2000,
      Commission File No. 1-7562

10.10 The Gap, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.3
      to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1998,
      Commission File No.1-7562

10.11 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan, filed as Exhibit A to the Registrant's
      definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of stockholders held on
      May 21, 1996, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.12 Amendment Number 1 to the Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan
      filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
      August 2, 1997, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.13 Amendment Number 2 to the Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan
      filed as Exhibit 10.15 to Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended
      January 31, 1998, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.14 Amendment Number 3 to the Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan
      filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
      October 31, 1998, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.15 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for employees under
      Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
      Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 2, 1997, Commission
      File No. 1-7562

10.16 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for directors under
      Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
      Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 2, 1997, Commission
      File No. 1-7562


10.17 Form of Restricted Stock Agreement under Registrant's 1996 Stock Option
      and Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended August 2, 1997, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.18 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for consultants under
      Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.4 to
      Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1998, Commission
      File No. 1-7562

10.19 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for employees in France under
      Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
      Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1998, Commission
      File No. 1-7562

10.20 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for international employees
      under Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.6
      to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1998,
      Commission File No. 1-7562

10.21 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for employees in Japan under
      Registrant's 1996 Stock Option and Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.7 to
      Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1998, Commission
      File No. 1-7562

10.22 Form of stock option agreement for employees under the UK Sub-plan to the
      U.S. Stock Option and Award Plan filed as Exhibit 10.8 to Registrant's
      Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 31, 1998, Commission File
      No. 1-7562

10.23 Executive Long-Term Cash Award Performance Plan, filed as Exhibit B to the
      Registrant's definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of
      stockholders held on May 21, 1996, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.24 Executive Long-Term Cash Award Performance Plan (January 26, 1999
      Restatement), filed as Exhibit B to the Registrant's definitive proxy
      statement for its annual meeting of stockholders held on May 4, 1999,
      Commission File No. 1-7562

10.25 Executive Long-Term Cash Award Performance Plan (January 26, 1999
      Restatement, as amended March 28, 2000)

10.26 Relocation Loan Plan, filed as Exhibit A to Registrant's definitive proxy
      statement for its annual meeting of stockholders held on October 25, 1977,
      Commission File No. 1-7562

10.27 Certificate of Corporate Resolution amending the Relocation Loan Plan,
      adopted by the Board of Directors on November 27, 1990, filed as Exhibit
      10.34 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
      February 2, 1991, Commission File No. 1-7562



10.28 Non-Employee Director Retirement Plan, dated October 27, 1992, filed as
      Exhibit 10.43 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
      ended January 30, 1993, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.29 Statement Regarding Non-Employee Director Retirement Plan filed as Exhibit
      10.25 to Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 1998,
      Commission File No. 1-7562

10.30 The Gap, Inc. Nonemployee Director Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as
      Exhibit 4.1 to Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission
      File No. 333-36265

10.31 Amendment Number 1 to the Registrant's Nonemployee Director Deferred
      Compensation Plan filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended October 31, 1998, Commission File No. 1-7562

10.32 Form of Discounted Stock Option Agreement under the Nonemployee Director
      Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as Exhibit 4.5 to Registrant's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8, Commission File No. 333-36265

10.4  Income continuation protection arrangement, dated December 21, 1998,
      between Registrant and John B. Wilson, filed as Exhibit 10.33 to
      Registrant's Form 10-K for the year ended January 30, 1999, Commission
      File No. 1-7562

10.33 Employment arrangement, dated July 6, 1999, between Registrant and Heidi
      Kunz, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-Q for
      the quarter ended July 31, 1999, Commission File No. 1-7562

13    Portions of Registrant's annual report to security holders for the fiscal
      year ended January 29, 2000

21    Subsidiaries of Registrant

23    Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP

27    Financial Data Schedule for the year ended January 29, 2000

