
10-K
1999 10-K FILING


                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                         Washington, D.C. 20549


                                FORM 10-K
          ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


               For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1999


                       CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.


Commission File Number 1-4949
Incorporated in the State of Indiana     I.R.S. Employer Identification
                                                  No. 35-0257090

       500 Jackson Street, Box 3005, Columbus, Indiana  47202-3005
                       (Principal Executive Office)
                    Telephone Number:  (812) 377-5000


Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  Common Stock,
$2.50 par value, which is registered on the New York Stock Exchange and on
the Pacific Stock Exchange.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [x]  No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosures of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K are not contained herein and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [x]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates was
approximately $1.5 billion at January 28, 2000.

As of January 28, 2000, there were outstanding 41.5 million shares of the
only class of common stock.

                 Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A are
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.


                                                          _________________


Part     Item                        Description                      Page
____     ____     _________________________________________________   ____

  I        1      Business                                              3
           2      Properties                                           11
           3      Legal Proceedings                                    11
           4      Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders    11

 II        5      Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and
                   Related Stockholder Matters                         12
           6      Selected Financial Data                              13
           7      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results
                   of Operations and Financial Condition               14
           8      Financial Statements and Supplemental Data           20
           9      Disagreements on Accounting and Financial
                   Disclosure                                          20

III       10      Directors & Executive Officers of the Registrant     21
          11      Executive Compensation                               22
          12      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                   and Management                                      22
          13      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions       22

 IV       14      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
                   Reports on Form 8-K                                 23
                  Index to Financial Statements                        24
                  Signatures                                           63
                  Exhibit Index                                        65


                                PART I
                                ______
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
_______  ________

OVERVIEW
________

Cummins Engine Company, Inc. ("Cummins" or "the Company") is a leading
worldwide designer and manufacturer of diesel engines, ranging from 55 to
2,700 horsepower and the largest producer of diesel engines over 200
horsepower.  The Company also produces natural gas engines and engine
components and subsystems.  Cummins provides power and components for a
wide variety of equipment in its key businesses: engine, power generation,
and filtration.

Cummins sells its products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"),
distributors and other customers worldwide and conducts manufacturing,
sales, distribution and service activities in many areas of the world.
Sales of products to major international firms outside North America are
transacted by exports directly from the United States and shipments from
foreign facilities (operated through subsidiaries, affiliates, joint
ventures or licensees) which manufacture and/or assemble Cummins' products.

In 1999, approximately 61 percent of net sales were in the United States.
Major international markets include Asia and Australia (12 percent of net
sales); Europe and the CIS (12 percent of net sales); Canada (7 percent of
net sales) and Mexico and Latin America (6 percent of net sales).

BUSINESS MARKETS
________________

     Engine Business
     _______________


     Heavy-duty Truck Market
     _______________________

Cummins has a complete line of diesel engines that range from 280 to 650
horsepower serving the worldwide heavy-duty truck market.  All major heavy-
duty truck manufacturers in North America offer the Company's heavy-duty
diesel engines as standard or optional power.  The Company's largest
customer for heavy-duty truck engines in 1999 was Freightliner Corporation,
a division of DaimlerChrysler.  Sales to Freightliner for this market
represented seven percent of the Company's net sales in 1999.

In 1999, factory retail sales of North American heavy-duty trucks were 20
percent higher than in 1998, establishing a new industry record.  Factory
retail sales were 305,000 units in 1999, compared to 254,000 in 1998, and
219,000 in 1997.  The Company's share of the North American heavy-duty
truck engine market was 31 percent through November 1999, based upon data
published by Ward's.  The Company's share of the North American heavy-duty
truck engine market was 32 percent in 1998 and 1997.  The Company has
maintained the number one market share position in heavy-duty truck engine
sales for 27 consecutive years.

Cummins market share in Mexico grew from 69 percent to 73 percent,
positioning Cummins as the market share leader by a very wide margin.  The
market size in 1999 was 8,800 units for domestic sales.

In South Africa and Australia, the Company also enjoys the number one
market position and is a leading supplier of diesel engines in Europe.

In 1999, the Company completed the introduction of its new heavy-duty
product line with the launch of the ISL and ISX engines.  Cummins offers
the ISL, ISM, ISX, N14 and Signature 600 (and Signature 650 in Australia),
which comprise the most modern product line in the industry.



In the heavy-duty truck market, the Company competes with independent
engine manufacturers as well as truck producers who manufacture engines for
their own products.  In North America, the Company's primary competitors in
the heavy-duty truck engine market are Caterpillar, Inc., Detroit Diesel
Corporation and Mack Trucks, Inc.  The Company's principal competitors in
international markets vary from country to country, with local
manufacturers generally predominant in each geographic market.  Other
diesel engine manufacturers in international markets include Mercedes-Benz,
AB Volvo, Renault Vehicles Industriels, Iveco Diesel Engines, Hino Motors,
Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., Isuzu Motors, Ltd., DAF Trucks
N.V. (a subsidiary of Paccar, Inc.), Scania A.B. and Nissan Diesel.

     Medium-duty Truck Market
     ________________________

The Company has a line of diesel engines ranging from 185 to 300 horsepower
serving medium-duty and inter-city delivery truck customers worldwide.  The
Company has the most modern product line in the industry, which is served
by the ISB and ISC diesel engines.

The Company entered the North American medium-duty truck market in 1990.
Based upon data published by R. L. Polk, the Company's share of the market
for diesel-powered medium-duty trucks in 1999 was 14 percent through
October 1999.  Freightliner was the Company's largest customer for this
market in 1999, representing 2 percent of the Company's net sales.  The
Company's market share in 1998 was 19 percent, and the market share in 1997
was 25 percent.  The decline in market share is primarily a result of the
end of exclusivity with Ford and some share decline at Freightliner.

The Company sells its ISB and ISC series engines and engine components
outside North America to medium-duty truck markets in Asia, Europe and
South America.

In the medium-duty truck market, the Company competes with independent
engine manufacturers as well as truck producers who manufacture diesel
engines for their own products.  Primary engine competitors in the medium-
duty truck market in North America are Navistar International Corporation
and Caterpillar, Inc.  The Company's principal competitors in international
markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally
predominant in each geographic market.  Other diesel engine manufacturers
in international markets include Mercedes Benz, AB Volvo, Renault Vehicles
Industriels, Iveco Diesel Engines, Hino Motors Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries, Ltd., Isuzu Motors, Ltd., DAF Group N.V., Scania A.B., Perkins
Engines Ltd., Nissan Diesel and MWM Brazil.

     Bus Market
     __________

Cummins offers both diesel- and alternate-fueled engines for school buses,
transit buses and shuttle buses.

In 1999, Cummins was the market share leader for transit buses, a position
it first achieved in 1998.  Cummins offers the ISB, ISC, ISL and ISM
engines for the bus markets.  Cummins also offers the L10, B and C series
products for natural gas applications, which are primarily focused on
transit and school bus markets.  The demand for alternate-fueled products
continues to grow both domestically and internationally.

In these markets, the Company competes both with independent manufacturers
of diesel engines and with vehicle producers who manufacture diesel engines
for their own products.  Primary competitors who manufacture diesel engines
for the bus and light commercial vehicle markets are Detroit Diesel
Corporation, General Motors Corporation, Navistar International
Corporation, Caterpillar, Inc., AB Volvo, DaimlerChrysler, Scania A.B. and
MWM Brazil.



     Light Commercial and Specialty Vehicles
     _______________________________________

Cummins offers the ISB for pickup trucks, primarily in the Dodge Ram pickup
truck in North America and for Ford in Brazil.  DaimlerChrysler was the
Company's largest customer for midrange engines in this market and the
Company's number one customer when all markets are considered, with 19
percent of the Company's net sales in 1999.

Cummins is the market leader in the class A recreational vehicle market
with a market share of 24 percent.  This represents a 75 percent share of
diesel-powered recreational vehicles, and a strong growth from gasoline to
diesel power for this application.

     Industrial Markets
     __________________

Cummins engines power a wide variety of equipment in the construction,
mining, agricultural, marine, rail and government markets throughout the
world.  The major construction equipment manufacturers are in North
America, Europe, Korea and Japan.  Construction equipment manufacturers
build approximately one million pieces of equipment per year for a diverse
set of applications.  The agriculture market produces about 340,000 pieces
of equipment per year above 75 horsepower, which is the focus market
segment for Cummins.  The Company has the dominant share of the four-wheel
drive agricultural tractor market.  In marine markets, about 35,000 diesel-
powered pleasure boats and 10,000 commercial boats are built every year.
Major marine markets are North America, Europe and Korea.  Mining market
customers are located in North America, Europe and Japan.  Cummins offers a
full product line for mining applications that compete in all segments,
including 240- and 300-ton trucks.  Rail and government represent a small
portion of industrial markets.  The rail market activity is primarily in
Europe and Asia, and the government market is primarily in North America.

A series of new product introductions was completed in 1999, including the
QSB5.9, the QSC8.3 and the QSX15 electronic engines.  In addition, the B3.3
engine, developed with our joint venture partner Komatsu, was launched in
1999.  For the marine market, introductions in 1999 included three ratings
of the electronic QSM11 engine, a full product line of shipboard auxiliary
units and upgrades of the entire product line to meet the International
Maritime Organization's emissions requirements for January 1, 2000.  The
Company completed the successful introduction of the 2,700-horsepower QSK60
to the mining markets, which extends Cummins product range to power 300-ton
haul trucks and 90-cubic-yard excavators.

     Power Generation Business
     _________________________

In 1999, power generation sales represented 20 percent of the Company's net
sales.  The strategic mission of Cummins Power Generation is to work in
partnership with its customers to provide "powerful solutions."  The Power
Generation business is vertically integrated and manufactures all of the
components that make up power generation systems, including engines,
alternators, switches, switchgear and controls.  Cummins Power Generation
also provides a range of services including long-term maintenance
contracts, turnkey power solutions and generator set rentals.

Cummins offers reciprocating engine-based power generation systems
worldwide with a power range of 2 kilowatts to 2 megawatts.  Engines are
offered with a choice of fuels: diesel, natural gas and gasoline-fired.

During 1999, Cummins and Wartsila agreed to divide the operations of their
joint venture, Cummins Wartsila.  While the products have excellent
potential in the marketplace, future growth can best be achieved by
integrating the products into the parent companies' sales and distribution
networks.  Cummins will take over the manufacture and global sales and
service of the CW 170/180 product line under the designation QSV engine
series.



Newage, a subsidiary of Cummins Power Generation, is a leader in the
alternator industry, supplying alternators with a range up to 4 megawatts.

Cummins Power Generation competes on a global scale with a variety of
engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers.  Caterpillar, Inc.
remains the primary competition, with its acquisition of MAK, Perkins and
FG Wilson.  Detroit Diesel Corporation and AB Volvo are other major engine
manufacturers with a presence in the high-speed segment of the market.
Onan brand sets compete in the mobile business segment and have a leading
market share exceeding 80 percent.  Newage competes globally with Emerson
Electric, Marathon and Meccalte, among others.

     Filtration Business and Other
     ______________________________

Fleetguard, Cummins' Filtration Business, is a leading designer and
manufacturer of filtration systems for heavy-duty equipment.  Its products
are produced and sold in global markets, including Europe, North America,
South America, Australia, Africa and Asia.  Nelson, purchased in 1998,
designs and manufactures air filtration and exhaust systems and distributes
in the same markets.  Together, Fleetguard and Nelson provide a complete
business solution for their customers.  Other markets include small engine
filtration and exhaust systems for small equipment.  The Filtration
Business also produces products for the automotive specialty filtration
market and the industrial filtration market through its two subsidiaries,
Kuss, located in Findley, Ohio, and Universal Silencer, located in
Stoughton, Wisconsin.

Cummins owns 16 distributorships, most of them located outside of the
United States.  Distributors sell loose engines and service parts as well
as perform service and repair activities on Cummins products.

Holset's turbochargers are sold worldwide.  Holset's joint venture with
TELCO assembled and shipped its first turbochargers in 1996.  A joint
venture with Wuxi in China also began production in 1996.  During 1997, the
vibration attenuation business was sold to Simpson Industries.  The Company
continues an alliance with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries of Japan for
production of jointly developed turbochargers.  In 1999, Holset began full
production of a variable geometry turbocharger designed for truck
powertrains.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS
___________________

     International
     _____________

The Company has manufacturing facilities worldwide, including major
operations in Europe, India, Mexico and Brazil.  Parts distribution centers
in Brazil, Mexico, Australia, Singapore, China, India and Belgium are
strategically located to supply service parts to maintain and repair
Cummins engines.

The Company has entered into alliances with business partners in various
areas of the world.

In 1997, the Company acquired an additional 1 percent of the outstanding
shares of Kirloskar Cummins Limited, becoming the majority owner, and
changed the name to Cummins India Limited.  This business is now
consolidated into Cummins financial statements.

In 1996, a joint venture was formed with two of the Fiat Group companies -
Iveco (trucks and buses) and New Holland (agricultural equipment) - to
design and manufacture the next generation of 4-,5-, and 6-liter engines
based on Cummins 4- and 6-liter B series engines.  Operations of Dong Feng
in China were expanded to form a joint venture for production of a C series
engine in addition to the license for B series engines.



In 1995, the Company formed a joint venture with China National Heavy Duty
Truck Corporation in Chongqing, previously a Cummins licensee, to
manufacture a broad line of diesel engines in China.

Cummins and Scania have a joint venture to produce a fuel system for heavy-
duty diesel engines.  Cummins also has a joint venture with TELCO to
manufacture the Cummins B series engines in India for TELCO trucks.
Cummins and Komatsu have formed joint ventures to manufacture the B series
engines in Japan and high-horsepower Komatsu designed engines in the United
States.  In 1997, a third joint venture with Komatsu to design next-
generation industrial engines was announced.

Cummins has entered into license agreements that provide for the
manufacture and sale of the Company's products in Turkey, China, Pakistan,
South Korea, Indonesia and other countries.

Several of the Company's subsidiaries have operations throughout the world.

Because of the Company's global business activities, its operations are
subject to risks, such as currency controls and fluctuations, import
restrictions and changes in national governments and policies.

     Research and Development
     ________________________

Cummins conducts an extensive research and engineering program to achieve
product improvements, innovations and cost reductions for its customers, as
well as to satisfy legislated emissions requirements.  The Company is
nearing completion of a program to refurbish and extend its engine range.
Cummins has introduced a variety of concepts in the diesel industry that
combine electronic controls, computing capability and information
technology.  The Company also offers alternate fueled engines for certain
of its markets.  As disclosed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, research and development expenditures approximated $220 million
in 1999, $230 million in 1998, and $250 million in 1997.  The Company
continues to invest in technologies to meet increasingly more stringent
emissions standards.

     Sales and Distribution
     ______________________

While the Company has supply agreements with some customers for Cummins
engines in both on- and off-highway markets, most of the Company's business
is done on open purchase orders.  These purchase orders usually may be
canceled on reasonable notice without cancellation charges.  Therefore,
while incoming orders generally are indicative of anticipated future
demand, the actual demand for the Company's products may change at any
time.  While the Company typically does not measure backlog, customers
provide information about future demand, which is used by the Company for
production planning.  Lead times for the Company's engines are dependent
upon the customer, market and application.

While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal declines in
production, there is no material effect on the demand for the majority of
Cummins' products on a quarterly basis.  The power generation business,
however, normally encounters seasonal declines in the first quarter of the
year.

The Company's products compete on a number of factors, including
performance, price, delivery, quality and customer support.  Cummins
believes that its continued focus on cost, quality and delivery, extensive
technical investment, full product line and customer-led support programs
are key elements of its competitive position.

Cummins warrants its engines, subject to proper use and maintenance,
against defects in factory workmanship or materials for either a specified
time period or mileage or hours of use.  Warranty periods vary by engine
family and market segment.

There are approximately 8,900 locations in North America, primarily owned
and operated by OEMs or their dealers, at which Cummins-trained service
personnel and parts are available to maintain and repair Cummins engines.
The Company's parts distribution centers are located strategically
throughout the world.



Cummins also sells engines, parts and related products through
distributorships worldwide.  The Company believes its distribution system
is an important part of its marketing strategy and competitive position.
Most of its North American distributors are independently owned and
operated.  The Company has agreements with each of these distributors,
which typically are for a term of three years, subject to certain
termination provisions.  Upon termination or expiration of the agreement,
the Company is obligated to purchase various assets of the distributorship.
The purchase obligation of the Company relates primarily to inventory of
the Company's products, which can be resold by the Company over a
reasonable period of time.  In the event the Company had been required to
fulfill its obligations to purchase assets from all distributors
simultaneously at December 31, 1998, the aggregate cost would have been
approximately $333 million.  Management believes it is unlikely that a
significant number of distributors would terminate their agreements at the
same time, requiring the Company to fulfill its purchase obligation.

     Supply
     ______

The Company manufactures many of the components used in its engines,
including blocks, heads, rods, turbochargers, crankshafts and fuel systems.
Cummins has adequate sources of supply of raw materials and components
required for its operations.  The Company has arrangements with certain
suppliers who are the sole sources for specific products.  While the
Company believes it has adequate assurances of continued supply, the
inability of a supplier to deliver could have an adverse effect on
production at certain of the Company's manufacturing locations.

     Employment
     __________

At December 31, 1999, Cummins employed 28,500 persons worldwide,
approximately 10,300 of whom are represented by various unions.

The Diesel Workers' Union (DWU) represents employees at several Southern
Indiana plants, under two contracts.  In 1993, members of the DWU working
in a majority of the Company's Southern Indiana manufacturing facilities
ratified an agreement that extends until the year 2004.  In 1995, members
of the DWU at the Company's midrange engine plant ratified a five-year
agreement.  The Company plans to enter into negotiations with the DWU at
the Southern Indiana midrange plant prior to the expiration of the contract
in 2000.

The Office Committee Union (OCU) represents technical and administrative
employees at the Company`s Southern Indiana facilities, including its
Technical Center, under two contracts.  In 1995, members of the OCU at the
Company's midrange engine plant in Southern Indiana ratified a five-year
agreement.  The Company plans to enter negotiations with the OCU prior to
the expiration of the contract in 2000.  In 1999, members of the OCU
ratified a five-year agreement for offices and other plants in Southern
Indiana and the Company's Technical Center.

The International Association of Machinists (IAM) represents employees at
the Company's remanufacturing plant in Memphis, Tennessee, under a three-
year agreement which was ratified in 1997.  The Company plans to enter
negotiations with the IAM before the expiration of its current contract in
2000.

The Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees represents
employees at the Company's filtration product plan in Findlay, Ohio, under
a five-year agreement which was ratified in 1997.

The United Auto Workers represents employees at the Company's filtration
products plant in Cookeville, Tennessee, under a three-year agreement
ratified in 1999.



The Company has other labor agreements covering employees in North America,
South America, the United Kingdom and India.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
________________________

     Product Environmental Compliance
     ________________________________

Cummins engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory
requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards with respect to
emissions and noise.  Cummins' products comply with emissions standards
that the US Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and California Air
Resources Board ("CARB"), as well as other regulatory agencies around the
world, have established for heavy-duty on-highway diesel and gas engines
and off-highway engines produced through 2000.  Cummins' ability to comply
with these and future emissions standards is an essential element in
maintaining its leadership position in regulated markets.  The Company will
make significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these
standards.  Failure to comply could result in adverse effects on future
financial results.

Cummins has successfully completed the certification of its 2000 on-highway
products, which include both midrange and heavy-duty engines.  All of these
products underwent extensive laboratory and field testing prior to their
release.

In October 1998, Cummins and other manufacturers of heavy-duty diesel
engines entered into a Consent Decree with the EPA, the U. S. Department of
Justice and CARB related to concerns they had raised regarding the level of
Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) emissions from diesel engines under certain driving
conditions.  The terms of that Consent Decree are a matter of public
record.  Cummins has developed extensive corporate action plans to comply
with all aspects of the Consent Decree.  Additionally, four separate court
actions have been filed as a result of allegations of the diesel emissions
matter.  The New York Supreme Court ruled in favor of the Company.  This
matter is now on appeal.  Two courts in California ruled in favor of the
Company.  A fourth action was filed in U.S. District Court, for the
District of Columbia.  A decision on Defendants' Motion to Dismiss is
currently pending.

Model year 1998 marked the latest major change in promulgated emissions
requirements for heavy-duty on-highway diesel engines when the oxides of
nitrogen standard was lowered from 5.0 to 4.0 g/bhp-hr.

Contained in the environmental regulations are several means for the EPA to
ensure and verify compliance with emissions standards.  Two of the
principal means are tests of new engines as they come off the assembly
line, referred to as selective enforcement audits ("SEA"), and tests of
field engines, commonly called in-use compliance tests.  The SEA provisions
have been used by the EPA to verify the compliance of heavy-duty engines
for several years.  In 1999, no such audit test was performed on Cummins
engines.  The failure of an SEA could result in cessation of production of
the noncompliant engines and the recall of engines produced prior to the
audit.  In the product development process, Cummins anticipates SEA
requirements when it sets emissions design targets.

No Cummins engines were chosen for in-use compliance testing in 1999.  It
is anticipated that the EPA will increase the in-use test rate in future
years, raising the probability that one or more of the Company's engines
will be selected.

In 1988, CARB promulgated a rule that necessitates the reporting of
failures of emissions-related components when the failure rate reaches a
specified level (25 component failures or one percent of build, whichever
is greater).  At somewhat higher failure rates (50 components or four
percent of build), a recall may be required.  In October 1999, the Company
communicated to CARB that a failure of the oxidation catalyst used with
certain urban bus engines had experienced failures at a level that
necessitates a report.  This failure has now reached the level that could
require a recall.  Cummins has initiated activities to correct these
failures on all affected engines in California as well as those in other
states.



Heavy-duty engines used in construction, agricultural and certain mining
applications are also subject to emission regulations.  In the United
States such standards were phased in beginning in 1996.  In other parts of
the world similar standards are applied.  Cummins has successfully
completed certification of its engines used in these nonroad applications.
All of these products have undergone extensive laboratory and field tests
prior to their release.

EPA's audit provisions cover certified nonroad engines.  In 1999, no
Cummins engines were selected for such audit testing.

Emissions standards in international markets, including Europe and Japan,
are becoming more stringent.  Given the Company's experience in meeting US
emissions standards, it believes that it is well positioned to take
advantage of opportunities in these markets as the need for emissions-
control capability grows.

There are several Federal and state regulations which encourage and, in
some cases, mandate the use of alternate fueled heavy-duty engines.  The
Company currently offers natural gas fueled versions of its C8.3 and B5.9
engines, ranging from 150 to 280 horsepower, as well as a propane-fueled
version of its B5.9 engine rated at 195 horsepower.

Vehicles and certain industrial equipment in which diesel engines are
installed must meet Federal noise standards.  The Company believes that
applications in which its engines are now installed meet those noise
standards and that future installations also will be in compliance.

     Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations
     ____________________________________________

Cummins believes it is in compliance in all material respects with laws and
regulations applicable to the plants and operations of the Company and its
subsidiaries.  During the past five years, expenditures for environmental
control activities and environmental remediation projects at the Company's
operating facilities in the United States have not been a major portion of
annual capital outlays and are not expected to be material in 2000.

Pursuant to notices received from Federal and state agencies and/or
defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, the Company
and its subsidiaries have been identified as potentially responsible
parties ("PRPs") under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or similar state laws,
at a number of waste disposal sites.  Under such laws, PRPs typically are
jointly and severally liable for any investigation and remediation costs
incurred with respect to the sites.  Therefore, the Company's ultimate
responsibility for such costs could be a percentage greater than the
percentage of waste actually contributed to the site by the Company.

The sites at which the Company or its subsidiaries are currently named as a
PRP are the following:  Old City Landfill, Columbus, Indiana; White House
Waste Oil Pits, Jacksonville, Florida; Seaboard Chemical, Jamestown, North
Carolina; Double Eagle Refinery, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Wastex Research,
East St. Louis, Illinois; North Hollywood Dump, Memphis, Tennessee;
Commercial Oil, Oregon, Ohio; Berliner & Ferro, Swartz Creek, Michigan;
Schnitzer Iron & Metal, St. Paul, Minnesota; Four County Landfill, Culver,
Indiana; Schumann Site, South Bend, Indiana; Great Lakes Asphalt,
Zionsville, Indiana; Third Site, Zionsville, Indiana; Auto-Ion, Kalamazoo,
Michigan; PCB Treatment Inc., Kansas City, Kansas; ENRx, Buffalo, New York;
Uniontown Landfill, Uniontown, Indiana; Sand Springs, Oklahoma; United
Steel Drum, East St. Louis, Illinois; Putnam County Landfill, Cookeville,
Tennessee; Enterprise Oil, Detroit, Michigan; Wayne Reclamation &
Recycling, Ft. Wayne, Indiana; and Casmalia Disposal Site, Santa Barbara,
California.  The Company presently is contesting its status as a PRP at
several of these sites.  At some of these sites, the Company will be
released from liability at the site as a de minimis PRP for a nominal
amount.



While the Company is unable at this time to determine the aggregate cost of
remediation at these sites, it has attempted to analyze its proportionate
and actual liability by analyzing the amounts of waste contributed to the
sites by the Company, the estimated costs for total remediation at the sites,
the number and identities of other PRPs and the level of insurance coverage.
With respect to other sites at which the Company or its subsidiaries have
been named as PRPs, the Company cannot accurately estimate the future
remediation costs.  At several sites, the remedial action to be implemented
has not been determined for the site.  In other cases, the Company or its
subsidiary has only recently been named as a PRP and is collecting
information on the site.  Finally, in some cases, the Company believes it
has no liability at the site and is actively contesting designation as a PRP.

Based upon the Company's prior experiences at similar sites, however, the
aggregate future cost to all PRPs to remediate these sites is not likely to
be significant.  In each of these cases, the Company believes that it has
good defenses at several of the sites, that its percentage contribution at
other sites is likely to be de minimis or that other PRPs will bear most of
the future remediation costs.  However, the environmental laws impose joint
and several liability and, consequently, the Company's ultimate
responsibility may be based upon many factors outside the Company's control
and could be material in the event that the Company becomes obligated to
pay a significant portion of these expenses.  Based upon information
presently available, the Company believes that such an outcome is unlikely
and that its actual and proportionate costs of participating in the
remediation of these sites will not be material.

In 2000, various plants and facilities of the Company will commence
development and implementation of ISO 14001 standards for an environmental
management system.  The Company anticipates that four of its Central Area
plants and five of its North American plants will be certified to ISO 14001
within the next two years.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
_______  __________

Cummins' worldwide manufacturing facilities occupy approximately 15 million
square feet, including approximately 6 million square feet outside the
United States.  Principal manufacturing facilities in the United States
include the Company's plants in Southern Indiana; Wisconsin; Jamestown, New
York; Lake Mills, Iowa; Cookeville, Tennessee; and Fridley, Minnesota; as
well as an engine plant in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, which is operated
in partnership with Case Corporation.

Countries of manufacture outside of the United States include England,
Brazil, Mexico, Canada, France and Australia.  In addition, engines and
engine components are manufactured by joint ventures or independent
licensees at plants in England, France, China, India, Japan, Pakistan,
South Korea, Turkey and Indonesia.

Cummins believes that all of its plants have been maintained adequately,
are in good operating condition and are suitable for its current needs
through productive utilization of the facilities.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
_______  _________________

The information appearing in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements is incorporated herein by reference.  The material in Item 1
"Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations" also is incorporated herein
by reference.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
_______  _________________________________________________

None.


                             PART II
                             _______

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
_______  _____________________________________________________

The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the
Pacific Stock Exchange under the symbol "CUM".  The following table sets
forth, for the calendar quarters shown, the range of high and low composite
prices of the common stock and the cash dividends declared on the common
stock.

                           High         Low         Dividends Declared
                          ______      _______       __________________
____

First quarter            $42 1/4      $35                 $.275
Second quarter            58 1/8       36 1/8              .275
Third quarter             64 9/16      49                  .275
Fourth quarter            52 9/16      39 1/16             .30

____

First quarter            $62 3/4      $51                 $.275
Second quarter            57 5/16      49 3/16             .275
Third quarter             56           29 5/8              .275
Fourth quarter            40 7/8       28 5/16             .275

At December 31, 1999, the approximate number of holders of record of the
Company's common stock was 4,800.

The Company has repurchased 5.0 million shares of its common stock since
1994.  The Company repurchased .7 million shares on the open market at an
aggregate purchase price of $34 million in 1999 and .4 million shares on the
open market at an aggregate purchase price of $14 million in 1998.  In 1997,
the Company repurchased 1.3 million shares from Ford Motor Company and
another .2 million shares on the open market at an aggregate purchase price
of $75 million.  The Company repurchased .8 million shares of stock in the
open market at an aggregate purchase price of $34 million in 1996 and 1.6
million shares at an aggregate purchase price of $69 million in 1995.  All
of the acquired shares are held as common stock in treasury.

In 1997, the Company issued 3.75 million shares of its common stock to an
employee benefits trust to fund obligations of employee benefit and
compensation plans, principally retirement savings plans.  Shares of the
common stock held by this trust are not used in the calculation of the
Company's earnings per share until distributed from the trust and allocated
to a benefit plan.

Certain of the Company's loan indentures and agreements contain provisions
which permit the holders to require the Company to repurchase the
obligations upon a change of control of the Company, as defined in the
applicable debt instruments.

The Company has a Shareholders' Rights Plan which it first adopted in 1986.
The Rights Plan provides that each share of the Company's common stock has
associated with it a stock purchase right.  The Rights Plan becomes
operative when a person or entity acquires 15 percent of the Company's
common stock or commences a tender offer to purchase 20 percent or more of
the Company's common stock without the approval of the Board of Directors.
In the event a person or entity acquires 15 percent of the Company's common
stock, each right, except for the acquiring person's rights, can be
exercised to purchase $400 worth of common stock for $200.  In addition, for
a period of 10 days after such acquisition, the Board of Directors can
exchange such right for a new right which permits the holders to purchase
one share of the Company's common stock for $1 per share.  If a person or
entity commences a tender offer to purchase 20 percent or more of the
Company's common stock, unless the Board of Directors redeems the rights
within 10 days of the event, each right can be exercised to



purchase one share for $200.  The plan also allows holders of the rights to
purchase shares of the acquiring person's stock at a discount if the Company
is acquired or 50 percent of the assets or earnings power of the Company is
transferred to an acquiring person.

The Company's bylaws provide that Cummins is not subject to the provisions
of the Indiana Control Share Act.  However, Cummins is governed by certain
other laws of the State of Indiana applicable to transactions involving a
potential change of control of the Company.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
_______  _______________________

$ Millions, except
per share amounts            1999      1998      1997      1996      1995
_____________________       ______    ______    ______    ______    ______

Net sales                   $6,639    $6,266    $5,625    $5,257    $5,245
Net earnings (loss)            160       (21)      212       160       224
Earnings (loss) per share:
  Basic                       4.16      (.55)     5.55      4.02      5.53
  Diluted                     4.13      (.55)     5.48      4.01      5.52
Cash dividends per share     1.125      1.10     1.075      1.00      1.00
Total assets                 4,697     4,542     3,765     3,369     3,056
Long-term debt               1,092     1,137       522       283       117

Earnings per share for 1995-1996 have been restated to reflect the adoption
of SFAS No. 128.

In 1999, the Company's results included a charge of $60 million in
connection with the dissolution of the Cummins Wartsila joint venture.

In 1998, the Company's results included charges totaling $217 million,
comprised of $78 million for revised estimates of additional product
coverage liability for both base and extended warranty programs, $114
million of costs associated with the Company's plan to restructure,
consolidate and exit certain business activities and $25 million for a civil
penalty resulting from an agreement reached with the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, the Department of Justice and the California Air
Resources Board regarding diesel engine emissions.

In 1995, the Company's results included restructuring charges of $118
million ($77 million after taxes) to reduce the worldwide work force and to
close or restructure selected operations in Europe, Brazil and North
America.  Net earnings in 1995 also included release of the tax valuation
allowance of $68 million.



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
         AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
_______  _____________________________________________________________

OVERVIEW
________

Net sales were a record $6.6 billion in 1999, 6 percent higher than in
1998, and 18 percent higher than in 1997.  Earnings before interest and
taxes of $356 million in 1999, or 5.4 percent of sales, were also a record,
excluding a $60 million pretax charge in connection with the dissolution of
the Cummins Wartsila joint venture.  This compares to $282 million in 1998,
excluding charges of $217 million pretax for product coverage costs,
restructuring and exit activities and a settlement with the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency.  As reported, earnings before interest and
taxes were $296 million in 1999, $65 million in 1998 and $312 million in
1997.  Net earnings in 1999 were $160 million or $4.13 per share compared
to a net loss of $21 million or $(.55) per share in 1998 and net earnings
of $212 million or $5.48 per share in 1997.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
_____________________

     Net Sales:
     __________

In 1999, the Company attained its eighth consecutive year of record sales,
totaling $6.6 billion.  Revenues from sales of engines were 55 percent of
the Company's net sales in 1999, with engine revenues 6 percent higher than
in 1998 and 15 percent above 1997.  The Company shipped a record 426,100
engines in 1999, compared to 403,300 in 1998 and 369,800 in 1997 as
follows:

Unit shipments                    1999        1998        1997
________________                 _______     _______     _______

Midrange engines                 298,400     287,400     264,300
Heavy-duty engines               117,900     106,100      94,900
High-horsepower engines            9,800       9,800      10,600
                                 _______     _______     _______
                                 426,100     403,300     369,800
                                 _______     _______     _______
                                 _______     _______     _______

Revenues from non-engine products, which were 45 percent of net sales in
1999, were 6 percent higher than in 1998.  The major increases within non-
engine revenues were achieved in sales of generator sets and PowerCare
sales (which include new parts and remanufactured engines and parts).
Sales of the remaining non-engine products, in the aggregate, were
essentially level with 1998.

The Company's net sales for each of its key segments during the last three
years were:

$ Millions                        1999         1998        1997
__________                       ______       ______      ______

Automotive markets               $3,203       $2,928      $2,622
Industrial markets                1,022        1,054       1,044
                                  _____        _____       _____
Engine Business                   4,225        3,982       3,666
Power Generation Business         1,356        1,230       1,205
Filtration Business & Other       1,058        1,054         754
                                 ______       ______      ______
                                 $6,639       $6,266      $5,625
                                 ______       ______      ______
                                 ______       ______      ______

Cummins' Engine Business, the Company's largest business segment, produces
engines and parts for sale to customers in both automotive and industrial
markets.  Engine Business customers are each serviced through the Company's
worldwide distributor network.  The engines are used in trucks of all
sizes, buses and recreational vehicles, as well as a variety of industrial
applications including construction, mining, agriculture, marine, rail and
military.  Engine Business revenues were $4.2 billion in 1999, a 6 percent
increase over 1998 and 15 percent over 1997.

Sales of $3.2 billion in 1999 for automotive markets were 9 percent higher
than in 1998 and 22 percent higher than in 1997.  In 1999, heavy-duty truck
engine revenues were 18 percent higher than in 1998 due to the strong
market in North America, partially offset by reduced demand in
international heavy-duty truck markets.  Within the North



American heavy-duty truck market, unit shipments were up 21 percent over
1998, and Cummins continued to be the market leader.  International unit
shipments for the heavy-duty market in 1999 were 7 percent lower than in
1998 due primarily to reduced demand in Mexico.

Revenues from the sales of engines for medium-duty trucks in 1999 were 1
percent lower than in 1998 on an 8 percent increase in units.  This
variance reflected a mix shift towards smaller 4 cylinder engines, which
have a lower selling price and margin as well as the impact of the
devaluation of the Brazilian real, which reduced revenues in this market.

For the bus and light commercial vehicle market, engine revenues in 1999
were 7 percent higher than in 1998, on a 7 percent increase in unit
shipments.  Record unit shipments to DaimlerChrysler for the Dodge Ram
pickup were 3 percent higher than in 1998 and 30 percent higher than in
1997.  The Company also had record shipments to the North American bus and
recreational vehicle market, where volumes were 30 percent higher than in
1998 and 39 percent higher than in 1997.  Shipments for international bus
markets declined 10 percent from 1998, due to lower sales into Mexico.

In 1999, revenues of $1.0 billion from industrial markets were 3 percent
lower than in 1998 and 2 percent lower than in 1997, due to decreased
volume and a shift in product mix.  Engine revenues for this market were
down 6 percent on a 6 percent decrease in units.  Construction equipment
business was 2 percent higher than the year-ago level, while agricultural
equipment demand decreased 46 percent from 1998 as a result of very weak
markets.  Sales to marine markets increased 24 percent from 1998, with
strength in both North American and international markets.  Mining market
sales declined 8 percent as compared to last year.

Revenues of $1.3 billion in 1999 for the Power Generation Business were 10
percent higher than in 1998 and 13 percent higher than in 1997.
Approximately $40 million of the sales increase in 1999 related to demand
for stand-by power in case of Year 2000 problems; however, the Company
expects that nearly half of this increase is sustainable with revenues from
new markets, including the rental and home stand-by power businesses.
Sales of the Company's generator sets in 1999 increased 21 percent from
1998, continuing to reflect growth in North America, which more than offset
declines in demand for generator sets in Asia and Latin America.  Engine
sales to generator set assemblers were down 8 percent from the prior year,
due primarily to lower demand in Asia.  Alternator sales decreased 2
percent as compared to 1998.  Sales of small generator sets for
recreational vehicles and other consumer markets remained strong in North
America, increasing 12 percent from 1998.

Sales of $1.1 billion in 1999 for the Filtration Business and Other were
essentially flat with 1998 and 40 percent higher than in 1997, with Nelson
Industries, acquired in January 1998, accounting for the majority of the
increase from 1997.  In 1999, new business at small equipment, truck and
agricultural equipment manufacturers offset a decrease in sales resulting
from the end of a specific catalyst business, which totaled $35 million.
International distributor sales included in this segment decreased 1
percent from 1998, while sales of Holset turbochargers increased 13 percent
as compared to a year ago.

Net sales by marketing territory for each of the last three years were:

$ Millions                        1999         1998        1997
__________                       ______       ______      ______

United States                    $4,064       $3,595      $3,123
Asia/Australia                      818          806         898
Europe/CIS                          800          791         796
Canada                              473          459         318
Mexico/Latin America                375          468         364
Africa/Middle East                  109          147         126
                                 ______       ______      ______
                                 $6,639       $6,266      $5,625
                                 ______       ______      ______
                                 ______       ______      ______



In total, international markets accounted for 39 percent of the Company's
revenues in 1999.  Europe and the CIS, representing 12 percent of the
Company's sales in 1999, were 1 percent higher than in 1998 and 1997.
Sales to Canada, representing 7 percent of sales in 1999, were 3 percent
higher than in 1998.  Asian and Australian markets, in total, represented
12 percent of the Company's sales in 1999, with increases in sales to Asia
more than offsetting a decline in sales to Australia.  In Asia, sales to
Southeast Asia increased 28 percent, sales to Korea were 25 percent higher
and sales to Japan were 9 percent above 1998 levels, while sales to China
decreased 6 percent and India was essentially flat compared to 1998.
Business in Mexico and Latin America, representing 6 percent of sales in
1999, was 20 percent lower than in 1998.  This decrease was due, in part,
to the devaluation of the Brazilian real.

     Gross Margin:
     _____________

As disclosed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the
Company recorded special charges of $92 million in 1998 for product
coverage costs and inventory write-downs.  The product coverage special
charges of $78 million include $43 million primarily attributable to base
warranty costs and $35 million for extended warranty programs.  The special
charges recorded in 1998 also included $14 million for inventory write-
downs associated with the Company's restructuring and exit activities.
These write-downs reflected amounts of inventory rendered excess or
unusable due to the closing or consolidation of facilities.

The Company's gross margin percentage was 21.4 percent in 1999 and 21.4
percent in 1998, excluding the special charges recorded for product
coverage and inventory write-downs, and 22.8 percent in 1997.  Gross margin
percentage in 1998 including the special charges was 19.9 percent.  Gross
margins in 1999 benefited from higher volumes and product cost
improvements, offset by higher product coverage costs.  Product coverage
costs were 3.7 percent of net sales in 1999, compared to 3.3 percent in
1998, excluding the special charges, and 2.6 percent in 1997.

     Operating Expenses:
     ___________________

Selling and administrative expenses were 11.8 percent of net sales in 1999,
compared to 12.5 percent in 1998 and 13.2 percent in 1997.  On the 6-
percent sales increase in 1999, these expenses, which include volume-
variable components, decreased 1 percent in absolute dollars.  This
improvement reflects benefits of the Company's cost reduction programs and
restructuring actions.

Research and engineering expenses were 3.7 percent of net sales in 1999,
compared to 4.1 percent in 1998 and 4.6 percent in 1997.  This decrease is
primarily due to new products moving into production and the Company's cost
reduction and productivity initiatives.

The Company's losses from joint ventures and alliances were $28 million in
1999, compared to losses of $30 million in 1998 and income of $10 million
in 1997.  In 1999, higher losses at the Company's joint venture with
Wartsila were more than offset by improved performance at the Company's
other joint ventures.  The difference from 1997 was due primarily to the
consolidation of Cummins India Limited in the fourth quarter of 1997 and
increased losses at the Company's joint venture with Wartsila.

In December 1999, the Company recorded a charge of $60 million in
connection with the dissolution of the Cummins Wartsila joint venture.  The
charge included $17 million to write off the Company's remaining investment
in the joint venture, $29 million for impairment of assets transferred from
the joint venture and $14 million for additional warranty and other
liabilities assumed by the Company.  The joint venture termination was
effective December 31, 1999, with the Company taking over the operations
and assets of the product line manufactured in Daventry, England.  The
asset impairment loss was calculated according to the provisions of SFAS
No. 121, using expected discounted cash flows as the estimate of fair
value.  The majority of the impaired assets are to be held and used in the
Company's Power Generation Business, with depreciation continuing on such
assets.



As disclosed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the
Company recorded charges in 1998 totaling $125 million, comprised of $100
million of costs associated with the Company's plan to restructure,
consolidate and exit certain business activities and $25 million for a
civil penalty resulting from an agreement reached with the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Justice regarding
diesel engine emissions.

The Company is continuing the restructuring plan implemented in the third
quarter of 1998.  As of December 31, 1999, approximately $81 million has
been charged against the liabilities associated with these actions.  The
Company funded the restructuring actions using cash generated from
operations.  Of the planned workforce reduction of 1,100 employees,
approximately 900 people left the Company prior to December 31, 1999.  The
remaining actions to be completed consist primarily of the outsourcing of
certain manufacturing operations and payment of severance commitments to
terminated employees.  The program is expected to be essentially complete
in early 2000 and yield approximately $50 million in annual savings at
completion.  The Company does not currently anticipate any material changes
in the original charges recorded for these actions.

     Other:
     ______

Interest expense of $75 million was $4 million higher than in 1998 and $49
million higher than in 1997.  Lower capitalization of interest in 1999
accounted for the increase as compared to 1998.  The increase from 1997 was
due to the increased level of borrowings to support working capital on the
higher sales level and to complete the acquisition of Nelson.  Other
expense went from $13 million of income in 1998 to $8 million of expense in
1999, primarily due to increased non-operating partnership costs and lower
interest income in 1999, and certain tax refunds and other non-recurring
transactions recorded in 1998.

     Provision for Income Taxes:
     ___________________________

The Company's income tax provision in 1999 was $55 million, an effective
tax rate of 25 percent, reflecting reduced taxes on export sales and
research tax credits.  In 1998, the Company's tax provision was $4 million,
with the tax benefits from export sales and the research credit more than
offset by the unfavorable tax effects of nondeductible losses in foreign
joint ventures and nondeductible EPA penalty and goodwill amortization.
The Company's effective tax rate in 1997 was 26 percent.

     Minority Interest:
     __________________

Minority interest in net earnings of consolidated entities was $6 million
in 1999, a decrease of $5 million from 1998 and an increase of $6 million
from 1997.  The decrease from 1998 was primarily due to lower net earnings
of Cummins India Limited in 1999 and the partner's share of losses from the
joint venture with Scania.  The change in minority interest from 1997 was
due to the consolidation of Cummins India Limited beginning in the fourth
quarter of 1997, when the Company increased its ownership interest to 51
percent.

     Year 2000:
     __________

The Company experienced no negative effects on customers, employees or
suppliers from the Year 2000 date change.  No problems with the Company's
products were reported.  The Company monitored the status of its worldwide
sites during the "millennium rollover" through the operation of three
communication centers located in Australia, England and Columbus, Indiana.
Teams of experts were on-hand and additional resources were available on a
stand-by basis to assist sites, if needed.  Service and engineering groups
were available on-call in case customer requests arose.  The Company's
sites, including its manufacturing facilities and distribution channels,
are working without any disruptive impact from the Year 2000 date change.



The Company also participated in an information gathering process designed
by the Automotive Industry Action Group  (AIAG) and reported a "green"
status throughout the requested Year 2000 AIAG reporting phase in early
January.

While Year 2000 results to-date are positive, there are key dates yet to
monitor.  The communication centers will watch Leap Year Day, February 29,
and financial closes during the first quarter.  The Company continues its
preventive approach to Year 2000 issues.  Sites continue to conduct process
verifications that critical systems are operating properly.

Costs and Risks of Company's Year 2000 Issues:
The Company will incur total expenditures of approximately $45 million in
connection with its Year 2000 program and remediation efforts.  The Company
is funding its Year 2000 costs with its normal operating cashflow.

There can be no assurances that the systems or products of third parties
relied upon by the Company, such as suppliers, vendors or significant
customers, were timely converted or that a failure by such third parties,
or a conversion that is incompatible with the Company's systems, would not
have a material adverse effect on the Company.  Other undiscovered factors
related to the Year 2000 issue may also have potential for an adverse
effect on the Company.  Such adverse effects may include an adverse effect
on the Company's revenues.  The time of completion and success of the
Company's Year 2000 program and compliance efforts, and the related
expenses, are based upon management's best estimates, which in turn are
based on assumptions about future events, including the availability of
certain resources, third party modification plans and other factors.  There
can be no assurances that these results and estimates will be achieved, and
the actual results could materially differ from those anticipated.
Specific factors that might cause such material differences include, but
are not limited to, the availability of trained personnel, the ability to
locate and correct all relevant computer code, and the failure by third
parties to address their Year 2000 problems.

CASH FLOW AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
_________________________________

Key elements of cash flows were:

$ Millions                                      1999      1998      1997
__________                                     ______    ______    ______

Net cash provided by operating activities      $ 307     $ 271     $ 200
Net cash used in investing activities           (166)     (752)     (354)
Net cash (used in) provided by financing
 activities                                     (105)      471        96
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash            -        (1)       (1)
                                               _____     _____     _____
Net change in cash                             $  36     $ (11)    $ (59)
                                               _____     _____     _____
                                               _____     _____     _____

During 1999, net cash provided from operating activities was $307 million,
reflecting the Company's strong net earnings and the non-cash effect of
depreciation and amortization, reduced by increases in working capital.
Net working capital as a percent of sales was 13.0 percent in 1999,
compared to 12.8 percent in 1998 and 11.6 percent in 1997.  Net cash used
in investing activities in 1999 of $166 million included planned capital
expenditures of $215 million, partially offset by $54 million of proceeds
from the sale of the Company's Atlas Crankshaft business.  Capital
expenditures were $271 million in 1998 and $405 million in 1997, during the
Company's peak product development period.  The higher level of net cash
requirements in 1998 was due primarily to the acquisition of Nelson.
Investments in joint ventures and alliances in 1999 of $36 million
reflected the net effect of capital contributions and cash generated by
certain joint ventures.

Net cash used in financing activities was $105 million in 1999.  This cash
was used for dividend payments, repurchases of the Company's stock and
payments on borrowings.  As disclosed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, the Company issued $765 million face amount of notes



and debentures in 1998 under a $1 billion registration statement filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in December 1997.  Net proceeds were
used to finance the acquisition of Nelson and to pay down other indebtedness
outstanding at December 31, 1997.  Based on the Company's projected cash flow
from operations and existing credit facilities, management believes that
sufficient liquidity is available to meet anticipated capital and dividend
requirements in the foreseeable future.

     Legal/Environmental Matters:
     ____________________________

The Company and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of pending
legal actions that arise in the normal course of business, including
environmental claims and actions related to use and performance of the
Company's products.  Such matters are more fully described in Note 17 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  In the event the Company is
determined to be liable for damages in connection with such actions or
proceedings, the unreserved portion of such liability is not expected to
have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, cash
flows or financial condition.

     Market Risk:
     ____________

The Company is exposed to financial risk resulting from volatility in
foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices.  This risk is
closely monitored and managed through the use of derivative contracts.  As
clearly stated in the Company's policies and procedures, financial
derivatives are used expressly for hedging purposes, and under no
circumstances are they used for speculating or for trading.  Transactions
are entered into only with banking institutions with strong credit ratings,
and thus the credit risk associated with these contracts is considered
immaterial.  Hedging program results and status are reported to senior
management on a monthly and quarterly basis.

The following section describes the Company's risk exposures and provides
results of sensitivity analyses performed on December 31, 1999.  The
sensitivity tests assumed instantaneous, parallel shifts in foreign
currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rate yield curves.

A. Foreign Exchange Rates

Due to its international business presence, the Company transacts
extensively in foreign currencies.  As a result, corporate earnings
experience some volatility related to movements in exchange rates.  In
order to exploit the benefits of global diversification and naturally
offsetting currency positions, foreign exchange balance sheet exposures are
aggregated and hedged at the corporate level through the use of foreign
exchange forward contracts.  The objective of the foreign exchange hedging
program is to reduce earnings volatility resulting from the translation of
net foreign exchange balance sheet positions.  A hypothetical,
instantaneous, 10 percent adverse movement in the foreign currency exchange
rates would decrease earnings by approximately $4 million in the current
reporting period.  The sensitivity analysis ignores the impact of foreign
exchange movements on Cummins' competitive position as well as the
remoteness of the likelihood that all foreign currencies will move in
tandem against the U.S. dollar.  The analysis also ignores the offsetting
impact on income of the revaluation of the underlying balance sheet
exposures.

B. Interest Rates

The Company currently has in place three interest rate swaps that
effectively convert fixed-rate debt into floating-rate debt.  The objective
of the swaps is to more efficiently balance borrowing costs and interest
rate risk.  A sensitivity analysis assumed a hypothetical, instantaneous,
100 basis-point parallel increase in the floating interest rate yield
curve, after which rates remained fixed at the new, higher level for a one-
year period.  This change in yield curve would correspond to a $4 million
increase in interest expense for the one-year period.  This sensitivity
analysis does not account for the change in the Company's competitive
environment indirectly related to changes in interest rates and the
potential managerial action taken in response to these changes.



C. Commodity Prices

The Company is exposed to fluctuation in commodity prices through the
purchase of raw materials as well as contractual agreements with component
suppliers.  Given the historically volatile nature of commodity prices,
this exposure can significantly impact product costs.  The Company uses
commodity swap agreements to partially hedge exposures to changes in copper
and aluminum prices.  Given a hypothetical, instantaneous 10 percent
depreciation of the underlying commodity price, with prices then remaining
fixed for a 12-month period, the Company would experience a loss of
approximately $3 million for the annual reporting period.  This amount
excludes the offsetting impact of decreases in commodity costs.

Forward-looking Statements
__________________________

This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition, other sections of this Annual Report and the Company's
press releases, teleconferences and other external communications contain
forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations,
estimates and projections about the industries in which Cummins operates
and management's beliefs and assumptions.  Words, such as "expects,"
"anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates,"
variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify
such forward-looking statements.  These statements are not guarantees of
future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions
("Future Factors") which are difficult to predict.  Therefore, actual
outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or
forecasted in such forward-looking statements.  Cummins undertakes no
obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Future Factors include increasing price and product competition by foreign
and domestic competitors, including new entrants; rapid technological
developments and changes; the ability to continue to introduce competitive
new products on a timely, cost-effective basis; the mix of products; the
achievement of lower costs and expenses; domestic and foreign governmental
and public policy changes, including environmental regulations; protection
and validity of patent and other intellectual property rights; reliance on
large customers; technological, implementation and cost/financial risks in
increasing use of large, multi-year contracts; the cyclical nature of
Cummins' business; the outcome of pending and future litigation and
governmental proceedings; and continued availability of financing,
financial instruments and financial resources in the amounts, at the times
and on the terms required to support Cummins' future business.

These are representative of the Future Factors that could affect the
outcome of the forward-looking statements.  In addition, such statements
could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth
rates, general domestic and international economic conditions, including
interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, and other Future
Factors.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
_______  __________________________________________

See Index to Financial Statements on page 24.

ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
_______  ____________________________________________________

None.


                                PART III
                                ________

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
________  __________________________________________________

The information appearing under the caption "Election of Directors" of the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of the
Shareholders to be held on April 4, 2000 ("the Proxy Statement") is
incorporated by reference in partial answer to this item.  Except as
otherwise specifically incorporated by reference, the Proxy Statement is not
to be deemed filed as part of this report.

The executive officers of the Company at December 31, 1999 are set forth
below.  The Chairman of the Board and President are elected annually by the
Board of Directors at the Board's first meeting following the Annual Meeting
of the Shareholders.  Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and
ratified by the Board of Directors and hold office for such period as the
Board of Directors or Chairman of the Board may prescribe.

                           Present Position and Business Experience
     Name          Age     During Last 5 Years
_______________    ___     _________________________________________________

Jean S. Blackwell   45     Vice President - Human Resources (1997 to
                           present), Vice President - General Counsel (1997)

Pamela F. Carter    50     Vice President - General Counsel and Corporate
                           Secretary (1997 to present)

John K. Edwards     55     Executive Vice President, Group President - Power
                           Generation and International (1996 to present),
                           Vice President - International (1989 to 1996)

Mark R. Gerstle     44     Vice President - Cummins Business Services
                           (1998 to present), Vice President and Chief
                           Administrative Officer and Secretary (1997 to
                           1998), Vice President - Law and Corporate
                           Affairs and Secretary (1997), Vice President -
                           General Counsel and Secretary (1995 to 1997),
                           Assistant General Counsel (1991 to 1995)

James A. Henderson  65     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (1995 to
                           Present), President and Chief Executive Officer
                           (1994 to 1995)

M. David Jones      52     Vice President - Filtration Group and President,
                           Fleetguard, Inc. (1996 to present), Vice
                           President - Aftermarket Group (1989 to 1996)

F. Joseph Loughrey  50     Executive Vice President and Group President -
                           Engine Business (1999 to present), Executive
                           Vice President and Group President - Industrial
                           and Chief Technical Officer (1996 to 1999),
                           Group Vice President - Worldwide Operations and
                           Technology (1995 to 1996), Group Vice
                           President - Worldwide Operations (1990 to 1995)

Frank J. McDonald   53     Vice President - Quality (1999 to present), Vice
                           President - Worldwide Midrange Operations (1996 to
                           1999), Vice President - Midrange Manufacturing
                           (1992-1996)

Rick J. Mills       52     Vice President - Corporate Controller (1996 to
                           present), Vice President Pacific Rim and Latin
                           America - Fleetguard, Inc. (1993 to 1996)


                           Present Position and Business Experience
     Name          Age     During Last 5 Years
_______________    ___     ________________________________________________

Kiran M. Patel      51     Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
                           Officer (1999 to present), Vice President and
                           Chief Financial Officer (1996 to 1999),
                           President - Fleetguard, Inc. (1993 to 1996)

Theodore M. Solso   52     President and Chief Operating Officer (1995 to
                           present), Executive Vice President and Chief
                           Operating Officer (1994 to 1995)

Christine M. Vujovich  48  Vice President - Environmental Policy and Product
                           Strategy (1999 to present), Vice President -
                           Worldwide Marketing for Bus and Light Commercial
                           Automotive and Environmental Management (1996
                           to 1999), Vice President - Product Planning and
                           Environmental Management (1989 to 1996)

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
________  ______________________

The information appearing under the following captions in the Company's
Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference:  "The Board of
Directors and Its Committees," "Executive Compensation -- Compensation
Tables and Other Information," "Executive Compensation -- Change of Control
Arrangements" and "Executive Compensation -- Compensation Committee
Interlocks and Insider Participation."

The Company has adopted various benefit and compensation plans covering
officers and other key employees under which certain benefits become payable
upon a change of control of the Company.  Cummins also has adopted an
employee retention program covering approximately 700 employees of the
Company and its subsidiaries, which provides for the payment of severance
benefits in the event of termination of employment following a change of
control of Cummins.  The Company and its subsidiaries also have severance
programs for other exempt employees of the Company whose employment is
terminated following a change of control of the Company.  Certain of the
pension plans covering employees of the Company provide, upon a change of
control of Cummins, that excess plan assets become dedicated solely to fund
benefits for plan participants.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
________  ______________________________________________________________

A discussion of the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management appearing under the captions "Principal Security Ownership,"
"Election of Directors" and "Executive Compensation -- Security Ownership of
Management" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
________  ______________________________________________

The information appearing under the captions "The Board of Directors and Its
Committees," "Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation" and "Other Transactions and Agreements with
Directors, Officers and Certain Shareholders" in the Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.



                                PART IV
                                _______

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
________  _______________________________________________________________

Documents filed as a part of this report:

     1.  See Index to Financial Statements on page 24 for a list of
         the financial statements filed as a part of this report.

     2.  See Exhibit Index on page 65 for a list of the exhibits filed
         or incorporated herein as a part of this report.

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1999.



                INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                _____________________________


                                                               Page
                                                               ____

Responsibility for Financial Statements                         25
Report of Independent Public Accountants                        25
Consolidated Statement of Earnings                              26
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position                    27
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                            28
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment              29
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      30
Quarterly Financial Data                                        42
Cummins Wartsila SAS Financial Statements                       43


               RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               _______________________________________


Management is responsible for the preparation of the Company's consolidated
financial statements and all related information appearing in this Report.
The statements and notes have been prepared in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles and include some amounts which are estimates
based upon currently available information and management's judgment of
current conditions and circumstances.  The Company engaged Arthur Andersen
LLP, independent public accountants, to examine the consolidated financial
statements.  Their report appears on this page.

To provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against loss
from unauthorized use or disposition and that accounting records are
reliable for preparing financial statements, management maintains a system
of accounting and controls, including an internal audit program.  The system
of accounting and controls is improved and modified in response to changes
in business conditions and operations and recommendations made by the
independent public accountants and the internal auditors.

The Board of Directors has an Audit Committee whose members are not
employees of the Company.  The committee meets periodically with management,
internal auditors and representatives of the Company's independent public
accountants to review the Company's program of internal controls, audit
plans and results, and the recommendations of the internal and external
auditors and management's responses to those recommendations.


               REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
               ________________________________________


To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Cummins Engine Company, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of financial
position of Cummins Engine Company, Inc., (an Indiana corporation) and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of earnings, cash flows and shareholders' investment for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999.  These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Cummins Engine Company,
Inc., and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.


                               Arthur Andersen LLP
Chicago, Illinois
January 26, 2000


                       CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS
                    __________________________________



Millions, except per share amounts           1999       1998       1997
__________________________________          ______     ______     ______

Net sales                                   $6,639     $6,266     $5,625
Cost of goods sold                           5,221      4,925      4,345
Special charges                                  -         92          -
                                            ______     ______     ______
Gross profit                                 1,418      1,249      1,280
Selling & administrative expenses              781        787        744
Research & engineering expenses                245        255        260
Net expense (income) from joint ventures
 and alliances                                  28         30        (10)
Interest expense                                75         71         26
Other expense (income), net                      8        (13)       (26)
Restructuring and other
 non-recurring charges                          60        125          -
                                             _____      _____      _____
Earnings (loss) before income taxes            221         (6)       286
Provision for income taxes                      55          4         74
Minority interest                                6         11          -
                                             _____      _____      _____
Net earnings (loss)                         $  160      $ (21)     $ 212
                                             _____      _____      _____
                                             _____      _____      _____

Basic earnings (loss) per share             $ 4.16      $(.55)     $5.55
Diluted earnings (loss) per share             4.13       (.55)      5.48


The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.


                       CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
               ____________________________________________



Millions, except per share amounts                     December 31,
__________________________________                   1999        1998
                                                    ______      ______
Assets
Current assets:
 Cash and cash equivalents                          $   74      $   38
 Receivables, net of allowance of $9 and $13         1,026         833
 Inventories                                           787         731
 Other current assets                                  293         274
                                                     _____       _____
                                                     2,180       1,876
                                                     _____       _____
Investments and other assets:
 Investments in joint ventures and alliances           131         136
 Other assets                                          143         144
                                                     _____       _____
                                                       274         280
                                                     _____       _____
Property, plant and equipment:
 Land and buildings                                    577         590
 Machinery, equipment and fixtures                   2,375       2,320
 Construction in process                               168         185
                                                     _____       _____
                                                     3,120       3,095
 Less accumulated depreciation                       1,490       1,424
                                                     _____       _____
                                                     1,630       1,671
                                                     _____       _____

Goodwill, net of amortization of $28 and $17           364         384
                                                     _____       _____
Other intangibles, deferred taxes and
 deferred charges                                      249         331
                                                    ______      ______
Total assets                                        $4,697      $4,542
                                                    ______      ______
                                                    ______      ______


Liabilities and shareholders' investment
Current liabilities:
 Loans payable                                      $  113      $   64
 Current maturities of long-term debt                   10          26
 Accounts payable                                      411         340
 Accrued salaries and wages                             88          99
 Accrued product coverage & marketing expenses         246         209
 Income taxes payable                                   40          13
 Other accrued expenses                                406         320
                                                     _____       _____
                                                     1,314       1,071
                                                     _____       _____
Long-term debt                                       1,092       1,137
                                                     _____       _____
Other liabilities                                      788       1,000
                                                     _____       _____
Minority interest                                       74          62
                                                     _____       _____

Shareholders' investment:
 Common stock, $2.50 par value, 48.3 and 48.1
  shares issued                                        121         120
 Additional contributed capital                      1,129       1,121
 Retained earnings                                     760         648
 Accumulated other comprehensive income               (109)       (167)
 Common stock in treasury,at cost,6.8 & 6.1 shares    (274)       (240)
 Common stock held in trust for employee benefit
  plans, 3.4 and 3.6 shares                           (163)       (172)
 Unearned compensation                                 (35)        (38)
                                                     _____       _____
                                                     1,429       1,272
                                                     _____       _____

Total liabilities & shareholders' investment        $4,697      $4,542
                                                    ______      ______
                                                    ______      ______



The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.


                       CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.
                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                   ____________________________________



Millions                                          1999       1998       1997
________                                         ______     ______     ______

Cash flows from operating activities:
 Net earnings (loss)                             $ 160      $ (21)     $ 212
                                                 _____      _____      _____
 Adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss)
  to net cash from operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization                    233        199        158
  Restructuring & other non-recurring actions       38        110        (24)
  Equity in (earnings) losses of joint
   ventures and alliances                           35         38         (1)
  Receivables                                     (200)       (10)       (80)
  Inventories                                      (60)       (26)       (65)
  Accounts payable and accrued expenses            162         56        (18)
  Deferred income taxes                            (31)       (65)        22
  Other                                            (30)       (10)        (4)
                                                  ____       ____       ____
  Total adjustments                                147        292        (12)
                                                  ____       ____       ____
                                                   307        271        200
                                                  ____       ____       ____
Cash flows from investing activities:
 Property, plant and equipment:
  Additions                                       (215)      (271)      (405)
  Disposals                                         22          7         21
 Investments in joint ventures and alliances       (36)       (22)       (47)
 Acquisitions and dispositions of business
  activities                                        57       (468)        76
 Other                                               6          2          1
                                                  ____       ____       ____
                                                  (166)      (752)      (354)
                                                  ____       ____       ____
Net cash provided by (used in) operating and
 investing activities                              141       (481)      (154)
                                                  ____       ____       ____
Cash flows from financing activities:
 Proceeds from borrowings                           28        711        281
 Payments on borrowings                            (90)      (161)       (50)
 Net borrowings (payments) under short-term
  credit agreements                                 49        (30)       (12)
 Repurchases of common stock                       (34)       (14)       (75)
 Dividend payments                                 (47)       (46)       (45)
 Other                                             (11)        11         (3)
                                                  ____       ____       ____
                                                  (105)       471         96
                                                  ____       ____       ____

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash              -         (1)        (1)
                                                  ____       ____       ____
Net change in cash and cash equivalents             36        (11)       (59)
Cash & cash equivalents at beginning of year        38         49        108
                                                  ____       ____       ____
Cash & cash equivalents at end of year            $ 74       $ 38       $ 49
                                                  ____       ____       ____
                                                  ____       ____       ____


Cash payments during the year for:
 Interest                                         $ 82       $ 56       $ 21
 Income taxes                                       56         73         42


The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.


                      CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT
           __________________________________________________



Millions, except per share amounts         1999         1998        1997
__________________________________      ___________  __________  __________

Common stock:
 Balance at beginning of year           $  120       $  120      $  110
 Issued to trust for employee
  benefit plans                              -            -           9
 Other                                       1            -           1
                                         _____        _____        ____
 Balance at end of year                    121          120         120
                                         _____        _____        ____
Additional contributed capital:
 Balance at beginning of year            1,121        1,119         929
 Issued to trust for employee
  benefit plans                              -            -         171
 Other                                       8            2          19
                                         _____        _____       _____
 Balance at end of year                  1,129        1,121       1,119
                                         _____        _____       _____
Retained earnings:
 Balance at beginning of year              648          715         548
 Net earnings (loss)                       160  $160    (21) $(21)  212  $212
                                                 ___          ____        ___
 Cash dividends                            (47)         (46)       ( 45)
 Other                                      (1)           -           -
                                          ____         ____        ____
 Balance at end of year                    760          648         715
                                          ____         ____        ____

Accumulated other comprehensive income:
 Balance at beginning of year             (167)         (70)        (60)
 Foreign currency translation
  adjustments                                      4          (43)        (21)
 Minimum pension liability
  adjustments                                     55          (54)         12
 Unrealized losses on securities                  (1)           -          (1)
                                                 ___          ___         ___
 Other comprehensive income                 58    58    (97)  (97)  (10)  (10)
                                           ___   ___    ___   ___   ___   ___
 Comprehensive income                           $218        $(118)       $202
                                                ____         ____        ____
                                                ____         ____        ____
 Balance at end of year                   (109)        (167)        (70)
                                           ___          ___         ___

Common stock in treasury:
 Balance at beginning of year             (240)        (245)       (169)
 Repurchased                               (34)         (14)        (76)
 Issued                                      -           19           -
                                         _____        _____        ____
 Balance at end of year                   (274)        (240)       (245)
                                         _____        _____        ____
Common stock held in trust for
 employee benefit plans:
 Balance at beginning of year             (172)        (175)          -
 Issued                                      -            -        (180)
 Shares allocated to benefit plans           9            3           5
                                         _____        _____       _____
 Balance at end of year                   (163)        (172)       (175)
                                         _____        _____       _____

Unearned compensation:
 Balance at beginning of year              (38)         (42)        (46)
 Shares allocated to participants            3            4           4
                                        ______       ______       _____
 Balance at end of year                    (35)         (38)        (42)
                                        ______       ______       _____

Shareholders' investment                $1,429       $1,272      $1,422
                                        ______       ______      ______
                                        ______       ______      ______

Shares of stock
Common stock, $2.50 par value,
 150.0 shares authorized
 Balance at beginning of year             48.1         48.1        43.9
 Shares issued                              .2            -         4.2
                                          ____         ____        ____
 Balance at end of year                   48.3         48.1        48.1
                                          ____         ____        ____
                                          ____         ____        ____

Common stock in treasury
 Balance at beginning of year              6.1          6.0         4.5
 Shares repurchased                         .7           .4         1.5
 Shares issued                               -          (.3)          -
                                           ___          ___         ___
 Balance at end of year                    6.8          6.1         6.0
                                           ___          ___         ___
                                           ___          ___         ___

Common stock held in trust for
 employee benefit plans
 Balance at beginning of year              3.6          3.7           -
 Shares issued                               -            -         3.8
 Shares allocated to benefit plans         (.2)         (.1)        (.1)
                                           ___          ___         ___
 Balance at end of year                    3.4          3.6         3.7
                                           ___          ___         ___
                                           ___          ___         ___




The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.


                      CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
               __________________________________________


NOTE 1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Principles of Consolidation:  The consolidated financial statements include
all significant majority-owned subsidiaries.  Affiliated companies in which
Cummins does not have a controlling interest, or for which control is
expected to be temporary, are accounted for using the equity method.  Use of
estimates and assumptions as determined by management is required in the
preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.  Actual results could differ from these
estimates and assumptions.

Revenue Recognition:  The Company recognizes revenues on the sale of its
products, net of estimated costs of returns, allowances and sales incentives,
when the products are shipped to customers.  The Company generally sells its
products on open account under credit terms customary to the region of
distribution.  The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of  its
customers and generally does not require collateral to secure its customers'
receivables.

Foreign Currency:  Assets and liabilities of foreign entities, where the
local currency is the functional currency, have been translated at year-end
exchange rates, and income and expenses have been translated to US dollars at
average-period rates.  Adjustments resulting from translation have been
recorded in shareholders' investment and are included in net earnings only
upon sale or liquidation of the underlying foreign investment.

For foreign entities where the US dollar is the functional currency,
including those operating in highly inflationary economies, inventory,
property, plant and equipment balances and related income statement accounts
have been translated using historical exchange rates.  The resulting gains
and losses have been credited or charged to net earnings and were net losses
of $2 million in 1999, $5 million in 1998 and $1 million in 1997.

Derivative Instruments:  The Company makes use of derivative instruments in
its foreign exchange, commodity price and interest rate hedging programs.
Derivatives currently in use are commodity and interest rate swaps, as well
as foreign currency forward contracts.  These contracts are used strictly for
hedging and not for speculative purposes.  Refer to Note 10 for more
information on derivative financial instruments.

The Company enters into commodity swaps to offset the Company's exposure to
price volatility for certain raw materials used in the manufacturing process.
As the Company has the discretion to settle these transactions either in cash
or by taking physical delivery, these contracts are not considered financial
instruments for accounting purposes.  These commodity swaps are accounted for
as hedges.

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 133 on
accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.  The statement
is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000.  The Company
plans to adopt this statement at the beginning of fiscal 2001 and is
currently evaluating its hedging strategy as it applies to the new statement.
The statement is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's
results of operations.

Other Costs:  Estimated costs of commitments for product coverage programs
are charged to earnings at the time the Company sells its products.

Research & development expenditures, net of contract reimbursements, are
expensed when incurred and were $218 million in 1999, $228 million in 1998
and $250 million in 1997.

Maintenance and repair costs are charged to earnings as incurred.

Cash Equivalents:  Cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments
with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase.



Inventories:  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable
value.  Approximately 23 percent of domestic inventories (primarily heavy-
duty and high-horsepower engines and engine parts) are valued using the last-
in, first-out (LIFO) cost method.  All other inventories are valued using the
first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.  Inventories at December 31 were as
follows:

$ Millions                                1999        1998
__________                                ____        ____
Finished products                         $402        $400
Work-in-process and raw materials          440         387
                                          ____        ____
Inventories at FIFO cost                   842         787
Excess of FIFO over LIFO                   (55)        (56)
                                          ____        ____
                                          $787        $731
                                          ____        ____
                                          ____        ____

Property, Plant and Equipment:  Property, plant and equipment are stated at
cost.  A modified units-of-production method, which is based upon units
produced subject to a minimum level, is used to depreciate substantially all
engine production equipment.  The straight-line depreciation method is used
for all other equipment.  The estimated depreciable lives range from 20 to 40
years for buildings and 3 to 20 years for machinery, equipment and fixtures.

Long-Lived Assets:  The Company evaluates the carrying value of its long-
lived assets for impairment whenever adverse events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be impaired.
In accordance with SFAS No.121, if the quoted market price, or if not
available the undiscounted cash flows, are not sufficient to support the
recorded asset value, an impairment loss is recorded to reduce the carrying
value of the asset to the amount of expected discounted cash flows.  This
same policy is followed for goodwill.

Software:  Internal and external software costs (excluding research,
reengineering and training) are capitalized and amortized generally over 5
years.  Capitalized software, net of amortization, was $110 million at
December 31, 1999, and $75 million at December 31, 1998.

Earnings Per Share:  Basic earnings per share of common stock are computed by
dividing net earnings by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding
for the period.  Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net
earnings by the weighted-average number of shares, assuming the exercise of
stock options when the effect of their exercise is dilutive.  Shares of stock
held by the employee benefits trust are not included in outstanding shares
for EPS until distributed from the trust.

                       Net           Weighted
Millions, except     Earnings        Average
per share amounts     (Loss)          Shares       Per share
_________________    ________        ________      _________

____
Basic                 $160             38.3         $4.16
Options                  -               .3         _____
                      ____             ____         _____
Diluted               $160             38.6         $4.13
                      ____             ____         _____
                      ____             ____         _____

____
Basic                 $(21)            38.5         $(.55)
Options                  -                -         _____
                      ____             ____         _____
Diluted               $(21)            38.5         $(.55)
                      ____             ____         _____
                      ____             ____         _____

____
Basic                 $212             38.2         $5.55
Options                  -               .5         _____
                      ____             ____         _____
Diluted               $212             38.7         $5.48
                      ____             ____         _____
                      ____             ____         _____


NOTE 2.  ACQUISITION:  In January 1998, the Company completed the acquisition
of the stock of Nelson Industries, Inc., for $453 million.  Nelson, a
filtration and exhaust systems manufacturer, was consolidated from the date
of its acquisition.  On a pro forma basis, if the Company had acquired Nelson
on January 1, 1997, consolidated net sales for 1997 would have been $5.9
billion and consolidated earnings would not have been materially different.
In accordance with APB Opinion No. 16, Nelson's net assets were recorded at
fair value at the date of acquisition.  The purchase price in excess of net
assets will be amortized over 40 years.

NOTE 3.  SPECIAL CHARGES:  In 1998, the Company recorded special charges of
$92 million for product coverage costs and inventory write-downs.  The
product coverage special charges of $78 million included $43 million
primarily attributable to the recent experience of higher-than-anticipated
base warranty costs to repair certain automotive engines manufactured in
previous years, and $35 million related to a revised estimate of product
coverage cost liability primarily for extended warranty programs.  The
special charges also included $14 million for inventory write-downs
associated with the Company's restructuring and exit activities.  These write-
downs related to amounts of inventory rendered excess or unusable due to the
closing or consolidation of facilities.



NOTE 4.  RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER NON-RECURRING CHARGES:  In December 1999,
the Company recorded a charge of $60 million in connection with the
dissolution of the Cummins Wartsila joint venture.  The charge included $17
million to write off the Company's remaining investment in the joint venture,
$29 million for impairment of assets transferred from the joint venture and
$14 million for additional warranty and other liabilities assumed by the
Company.  The joint venture termination was effective December 31, 1999, with
the Company taking over the operations and assets of the product line
manufactured in Daventry, England.

The asset impairment loss was calculated according to the provisions of SFAS
No. 121, using expected discounted cash flows as the estimate of fair value.
The majority of the impaired assets are to be held and used in the Company's
Power Generation Business, with depreciation continuing on such assets.

In the third quarter of 1998, the Company recorded charges of $125 million,
comprised of $100 million for costs to reduce the worldwide workforce by
approximately 1,100 people, as well as costs associated with streamlining
certain majority-owned and international joint venture operations and $25
million for a civil penalty to be paid by the Company as a result of an
agreement reached with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
regarding diesel engine emissions.  In addition, the Company recorded special
charges of $14 million for inventory write-downs associated with
restructuring actions.

The Company is continuing the restructuring plan implemented in the third
quarter of 1998.  As of December 31, 1999, approximately $81 million has been
charged against the liabilities associated with these actions.  The Company
has funded the restructuring actions using cash generated from operations.
Of the planned workforce reduction of 1,100 employees, approximately 900
people left the Company prior to December 31, 1999.  The remaining actions to
be completed consist primarily of the outsourcing of certain manufacturing
operations and payment of severance commitments to terminated employees.  The
program is expected to be essentially complete in early 2000 and yield
approximately $50 million in annual savings at completion.  The Company does
not currently anticipate any material changes in the original charges
recorded for these actions.  Activity in the major components of these
charges is as follows:
                                                     Charges
                                    Original      ______________
$ Millions                          Provision     1998     1999    12/31/99
__________                          _________     _____    _____   ________

Restructuring of majority-owned
 operations:
  Workforce reductions                $ 38        $(12)    $(14)     $ 12
  Asset impairment loss                 22           -       (7)       15
  Facility consolidations and
   other                                17          (8)      (4)        5
                                       ___        ____     ____      ____
                                        77         (20)     (25)       32
                                       ___        ____     ____      ____
Restructuring of joint venture
 operations:
  Workforce reductions                  11           -      (10)        1
  Tax asset impairment loss              7           -       (7)        -
  Facility & equipment-related costs     5           -       (5)        -
                                       ___        ____     ____      ____
                                        23           -      (22)        1
                                       ___        ____     ____      ____

Inventory write-downs associated
 with restructuring actions             14          (5)      (9)        -
                                       ___        ____     ____      ____

Total restructuring charges            114         (25)     (56)       33
                                       ___        ____     ____      ____

EPA penalty                             25           -       (8)       17
                                       ___        ____     ____      ____

Total                                 $139        $(25)    $(64)     $ 50
                                      ____        ____     ____      ____
                                      ____        ____     ____      ____



NOTE 5.  OTHER EXPENSE (INCOME):  The major components of other expense
(income) included the following:

$ Millions                               1999      1998      1997
__________                               ____      ____      ____

Amortization of intangibles              $15       $ 14      $  2
Interest income                           (7)        (9)       (5)
Loss (gain) on sale of businesses          1         (7)      (13)
Rental income                             (5)        (6)       (3)
Royalty income                            (4)        (5)      (12)
Foreign currency losses                    2          5         1
Non-operating partnership costs            6          3         -
Social tax refunds                         -         (3)        -
Other                                      -         (5)        4
                                         ___       ____      ____
Total                                    $ 8       $(13)     $(26)
                                         ___       ____      ____
                                         ___       ____      ____

NOTE 6.  INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ALLIANCES:  Investments in joint
ventures and alliances at December 31 were as follows:

$ Millions                                1999         1998
__________                                ____         ____

Tata Cummins                              $ 22         $ 22
Komatsu alliances                           18           17
Chongqing Cummins                           16           15
Behr America                                15           14
European Engine Alliance                    14            5
Consolidated Diesel                         11           39
Dong Feng                                   10            8
Cummins Wartsila                             -           (6)
Other                                       25           22
                                          ____         ____
                                          $131         $136
                                          ____         ____
                                          ____         ____


Summary financial information for the joint ventures and alliances was as
follows:
                                                December 31,
$ Millions                             1999        1998        1997
__________                            ______      ______      ______
Net sales                             $1,334      $1,245      $1,307
Gross profit                             101          25         111
Net earnings (loss)                      (64)       (105)          5
Cummins' share                           (32)        (52)          2

Current assets                        $  302      $  527
Noncurrent assets                        485         613
Current liabilities                     (223)       (406)
Noncurrent liabilities                  (284)       (455)
                                        ____        ____
Net assets                              $280        $279
                                        ____        ____
                                        ____        ____
Cummins' share                          $131        $136
                                        ____        ____
                                        ____        ____

The Company has guaranteed $52 million in outstanding debt of the Cummins
Wartsila joint venture as of December 31, 1999.  As disclosed in Note 4, the
Cummins Wartsila joint venture was terminated effective December 31, 1999.

In connection with various joint venture agreements, Cummins is required to
purchase products from the joint ventures in amounts to provide for the
recovery of specified costs of the ventures.  Under the agreement with
Consolidated Diesel, Cummins' purchases were $513 million in 1999 and $535
million in 1998.

NOTE 7.  BORROWINGS:  Long-term debt at December 31 was:

$ Millions                                         1999       1998
__________                                         ____       ____
7.125% debentures due 2028                         $249       $249
6.45% notes due 2005                                224        224
Commercial paper                                    168        142
5.65% debentures due 2098, net of unamortized
 discount of $40 (effective interest rate 7.48%)    125        125
6.25% notes due 2003                                125        125
6.75% debentures due 2027                           120        120
Guaranteed notes of ESOP Trust due 2010              61         63
8.2% notes through 2003                               -         79
Other                                                30         36
                                                  _____      _____
Total                                             1,102      1,163
Current maturities                                  (10)       (26)
                                                 ______     ______
Long-term debt                                   $1,092     $1,137
                                                 ______     ______
                                                 ______     ______

Maturities of long-term debt for the five years subsequent to December 31,
1999 are $10 million, $8 million, $9 million, $131 million and $7 million.
At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the weighted-average interest rate on loans
payable and current maturities of long-term debt approximated 6 percent and 7
percent, respectively.

The Company maintains a $500 million revolving credit agreement, maturing in
2003, under which there were no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 1999
or 1998.  The revolving credit agreement supports the Company's commercial
paper borrowings.  In February 1998, the Company issued $765 million face
amount of notes and debentures under a $1 billion Registration Statement
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1997.  Net proceeds were
used to finance the acquisition of Nelson and to pay down other indebtedness
outstanding at December 31, 1997.  The Company also has other domestic and



international credit lines with approximately $116 million available at
December 31, 1999.

The Company's debt agreements have several covenants which require
maintenance of a certain level of net worth, place restrictions on the amount
of additional debt the Company may incur and require maintenance of minimum
leverage ratios.

In December 1999, the Company paid off the 8.2 percent notes due in 2003
using cash generated from operations and additional commercial paper
borrowings.

At December 31, 1999 and 1998, loans payable included $100 million and $54
million, respectively, of notes payable to banks and $13 million and $10
million, respectively, of bank overdrafts.

The Company has guaranteed the outstanding borrowings of its ESOP Trust.
Cash contributions to the Trust, together with the dividends accumulated on
the common stock held by the Trust, are used to pay interest and principal.
Cash contributions and dividends to the Trust approximated $10 million in
each year.  The unearned compensation, which is reflected as a reduction to
shareholders' investment, represents the historical cost of the shares of
common stock that have not yet been allocated by the Trust to participants.


NOTE 8.  OTHER LIABILITIES:  Other liabilities at December 31 included the
following:

$ Millions                                             1999       1998
__________                                            ______     ______
Accrued retirement & post-employment benefits         $  511     $  720
Accrued product coverage & marketing expenses            175        156
Accrued compensation                                      42         38
Deferred income taxes                                      1         17
Other                                                     59         69
                                                        ____     ______
                                                      $  788     $1,000
                                                      ______     ______
                                                      ______     ______

NOTE 9.  INCOME TAXES:  The provision for income taxes was as follows:

$ Millions                                 1999     1998      1997
_____________                              ____     ____      ____
Current:
 U.S. Federal and state                    $43      $16       $16
 Foreign                                    43       41        32
                                            __       __        __
                                            86       57        48
                                            __       __        __
Deferred:
 U.S. Federal and state                    (17)     (34)       26
 Foreign                                   (14)     (19)        -
                                            __       __        __
                                           (31)     (53)       26
                                           ___      ___        __
                                           $55      $ 4       $74
                                           ___      ___       ___
                                           ___      ___       ___


Significant components of net deferred tax assets related to the following
tax effects of differences between financial and tax reporting at December
31:

$ Millions                                              1999       1998
__________                                              ____       ____

Employee benefit plans                                  $282       $300
Product coverage & marketing expenses                    126        106
Restructuring charges                                     34         14
US plant & equipment                                    (182)      (176)
Net foreign taxable differences, primarily plant
 and equipment                                             9          6
US Federal carryforward benefits:
 General business tax credits, expiring 2018 to 2019      22         43
 Minimum tax credits, no expiration                       15         12
Other net differences                                     13         12
                                                        ____       ____
                                                        $319       $317
                                                        ____       ____
                                                        ____       ____
Balance Sheet Classification
____________________________
Current assets                                          $210       $203
Noncurrent assets                                        110        131
Noncurrent liabilities                                    (1)       (17)
                                                        ____       ____
                                                        $319       $317
                                                        ____       ____
                                                        ____       ____

The Company expects to realize all of its tax assets, including the use of
all carryforwards, before any expiration.



Earnings before income taxes and differences between the effective tax rate
and US Federal income tax rate were:

$ Millions                                      1999      1998      1997
__________                                      ____      ____      ____
Earnings (loss) before income taxes:
  US                                            $232      $(21)     $205
  Foreign                                        (11)       15        81
                                                ____      ____      ____
                                                $221      $ (6)     $286
                                                ____      ____      ____
                                                ____      ____      ____


Tax at 35 percent US statutory rate             $ 77      $ (2)     $100
Nondeductible EPA penalty                          -         9         -
Nondeductible goodwill amortization                3         3         -
Research tax credits                             (15)      (10)      (11)
Foreign sales corporation benefits               (18)       (9)      (11)
Differences in rates and taxability of
 foreign subsidiaries                             10        15        (3)
All other, net                                    (2)       (2)       (1)
                                                ____      ____      ____
                                                $ 55      $  4      $ 74
                                                ____      ____      ____
                                                ____      ____      ____


NOTE 10.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT:  The Company is exposed
to financial risk resulting from volatility in foreign exchange rates and
interest rates.  This risk is closely monitored and managed through the use
of financial derivative contracts.  As clearly stated in the Company's
policies and procedures, financial derivatives are used expressly for hedging
purposes, and under no circumstances are they used for speculating or
trading.  Transactions are entered into only with banking institutions with
strong credit ratings, and thus the credit risk associated with these
contracts is considered immaterial.  Hedging program results and status are
reported to senior management on a periodic basis.

Foreign Exchange Rates
Due to its international business presence, the Company uses foreign exchange
forward contracts to manage its exposure to exchange rate volatility.
Foreign exchange balance sheet exposures are aggregated and hedged at the
corporate level.  Maturities on these instruments generally fall within the
one-month and six-month range.  The objective of the hedging program is to
reduce earnings volatility resulting from the translation of net foreign
exchange balance sheet positions.  The total notional amount of these forward
contracts outstanding at December 31 was as follows:

$ Millions
__________
Currency                        1999        1998
________                        ____        ____

British Pound                   $120        $ 86
Euro                              47           -
Australian Dollar                 19          13
Hong Kong Dollar                   8           8
Japanese Yen                       7           6
Canadian Dollar                    3          11
French Franc                       -          23
German Mark                        -          19
Other                              2           8
                                ____        ____
                                $206        $174
                                ____        ____
                                ____        ____

Interest Rates
The Company manages its exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the
use of interest rate swaps.  Currently the Company has in place three
interest rate swaps that effectively convert fixed-rate debt into floating-
rate debt.  The objective of the swaps is to more efficiently balance
borrowing costs and interest rate risk.  The contracts were established
during 1998 and 1999 and have a total notional value of $350 million.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Based on borrowing rates currently available to the Company for bank loans
with similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of total debt,
including current maturities, at December 31, 1999, approximated $1,104
million.  The carrying value at that date was $1,215 million.  At December
31, 1998, the fair and carrying values of total debt, including current
maturities, were $1,214 and $1,227 million, respectively.  The carrying
values of all other receivables and liabilities approximated fair values.



NOTE 11.  RETIREMENT PLANS:  The Company has various contributory and
noncontributory pension plans covering substantially all employees.  Cummins
common stock represented 11 percent of pension plan assets at December 31,
1999.

Cummins also provides various health care and life insurance benefits to
eligible retirees and their dependents but reserves the right to change
benefits covered under these plans.  The plans are contributory with
retirees' contributions adjusted annually, and they contain other cost-
sharing features, such as deductibles, coinsurance and spousal contributions.
The general policy is to fund benefits as claims and premiums are incurred.

The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess
of plan assets were $651 million, $636 million, and $513 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 1999, and $1,296 million, $1,251 million,
and $999 million, respectively, as of December 31, 1998.  The assumed long-
term rate of compensation increase for salaried plans was 5.25 percent in
1999 and 4.25 percent in 1998.  Other significant assumptions for the
Company's principal plans were:
                                              Pension           Other
                                              Benefits         Benefits
                                            1999    1998     1999    1998
                                            ____    ____     ____    ____

Weighted-average discount rate              7.5%     6.5%    7.5%    6.5%
Long-term rate of return on plan assets     9.0%    10.0%

For measurement purposes a 7 percent annual increase in health care costs was
assumed for 2000, decreasing gradually to 5.25 percent in ten years and
remaining constant thereafter.

Increasing the health care cost trend rate by one percent would increase the
obligation by $43 million and annual expense by $4 million.  Decreasing the
health care cost trend rate by one percent would decrease the obligation by
$42 million and annual expense by $4 million.

The Company's net periodic benefit cost under these plans was as follows:

                                  Pension Benefits         Other Benefits
$ Millions                      1999    1998    1997    1999    1998    1997
____________                    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____
Service cost                    $ 53    $ 47    $ 41    $  8    $  8    $  8
Interest cost                    116     123     115      40      44      41
Expected return on plan
 assets                         (161)   (153)   (134)      -       -       -
Amortization of transition
 asset                            (3)     (4)     (9)      -       -       -
Other                             12      12      13       4       3       9
                                ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____
                                $ 17    $ 25    $ 26    $ 52    $ 55    $ 58
                                ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____
                                ____    ____    ____    ____    ____    ____


                                          Pension Benefits    Other Benefits
$ Millions                                 1999     1998      1999     1998
__________                                ______   ______    ______   ______
Change in benefit obligation:
Benefit obligation at beginning of year   $1,907   $1,693    $  640   $  596
Service cost                                  53       47         8        8
Interest cost                                116      123        40       44
Plan participants' contributions               7        7         1        1
Amendments                                    14        2         -        -
Experience (gain) loss                      (103)     161       (21)      20
Benefits paid                               (119)    (123)      (31)     (29)
Other                                        (10)      (3)        -        -
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
Benefit obligation at end of year         $1,865   $1,907    $  637   $  640
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets at
 beginning of year                        $1,692   $1,905    $    -   $    -
Actual return on plan assets                 331     (129)        -        -
Employer contribution                         20       34        30       28
Plan participants' contributions               7        7         1        1
Benefits paid                               (119)    (123)      (31)     (29)
Other                                         (9)      (2)        -        -
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
Fair value of plan assets at end of
 year                                     $1,922   $1,692    $    -   $    -
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____

Funded status                             $   57   $ (215)   $ (637)  $ (640)
Unrecognized:
 Experience (gain) loss (a)                 (103)     172        55       80
 Prior service cost (b)                       51       55       (12)     (11)
 Transition asset (c)                         (5)      (7)        -        -
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
Net amount recognized                     $    -   $    5    $ (594)  $ (571)
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____

Amounts recognized in the statement
 of financial position:
Prepaid benefit cost                      $  102   $   50    $    -   $    -
Accrued benefit liability                   (114)    (232)     (594)    (571)
Intangible asset                              12      104         -        -
Accumulated other comprehensive income         -       83         -        -
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
Net amount recognized                     $    -   $    5    $ (594)  $ (571)
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____
                                           _____    _____     _____    _____

(a)  The net deferred (gain) loss resulting from investments, other
     experience and changes in assumptions.
(b)  The prior service effect of plan amendments deferred for recognition
     over remaining service.
(c)  The balance of the initial difference between assets and obligations
     deferred for recognition over a 15-year period.



NOTE 12.  COMMON STOCK:  The Company increased its quarterly common stock
dividend from 27.5 cents per share to 30.0 cents, effective with the dividend
payment in December 1999.

The Company repurchased 0.7 million shares on the open market at an aggregate
purchase price of $34 million in 1999 and 0.4 million shares on the open
market at an aggregate purchase price of $14 million in 1998.  In 1997, the
Company repurchased 1.3 million shares from Ford Motor Company and another
0.2 million shares on the open market at an aggregate purchase price of $75
million.  All of the acquired shares are held as common stock in treasury.

In 1997, the Company issued 3.75 million shares of its common stock to an
employee benefits trust to fund obligations of employee benefit and
compensation plans, principally retirement savings plans.  Shares of the
stock held by this trust are not used in the calculation of earnings per
share until allocated to a benefit plan.

NOTE 13.  SHAREHOLDERS' RIGHTS PLAN:  The Company has a Shareholders' Rights
Plan which it first adopted in 1986.  The Rights Plan provides that each
share of the Company's common stock has associated with it a stock purchase
right.  The Rights Plan becomes operative when a person or entity acquires 15
percent of the Company's common stock or commences a tender offer to purchase
20 percent or more of the Company's common stock without the approval of the
Board of Directors.

NOTE 14.  EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS:  Under the Company's stock incentive and
option plans, officers and other eligible employees may be awarded stock
options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock.  Under the
provisions of the stock incentive plan, up to one percent of the Company's
outstanding shares of common stock at the end of the preceding year is
available for issuance under the plan each year.  At December 31, 1999, there
were no shares of common stock available for grant and 1,732,875 options
exercisable under the plans.

The Company accounts for stock options in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25
and related interpretations.  No compensation expense has been recognized for
stock options since the options have exercise prices equal to the market
price of the Company's common stock at the date of grant.

                                   Number of    Weighted-average
Options                             Shares       exercise price
________                           _________    ________________

December 31, 1996                  1,510,150          38.88
 Granted                             766,500          60.61
 Exercised                          (294,025)         35.85
 Cancelled                          ( 61,775)         42.66
                                   _________

December 31, 1997                  1,920,850          46.08
 Granted                             703,660          45.34
 Exercised                           (54,075)         36.36
 Cancelled                           (27,425)         53.80
                                   _________

December 31, 1998                  2,543,010          48.08
 Granted                             886,900          39.74
 Exercised                          (196,500)         39.71
 Cancelled                           (40,275)         43.99
                                   _________
December 31, 1999                  3,193,135          46.65
                                   _________
                                   _________

Options outstanding at December 31, 1999, have exercise prices between $15.94
and $79.81 and a weighted-average remaining life of 7 years. The weighted-
average fair value of options granted was $13.76 per share in 1999 and $18.61
per share in 1998.  The fair value of each option was estimated on the date
of grant using a risk-free interest rate of 5.6 percent in 1999 and 1998,
current annual dividends, expected lives of 10 years and expected volatility
of 34 percent.  A fair-value method of accounting for awards subsequent to
January 1, 1997, would have resulted in an increase in compensation expense
of $8 million, net of tax ($.20 per share) in 1999, $8 million, net of tax
($.20 per share) in 1998 and $6 million, net of tax ($.14 per share) in 1997.



NOTE 15.  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:  Comprehensive income includes net income and
all other nonowner changes in equity during a period.

The tax effect on other comprehensive income is as follows:

                                                                      Total
                            Foreign                      Minimum      Other
                           Currency      Unrealized      Pension      Compre-
                          Translation    Losses on      Liability     hensive
$ Millions                Adjustments    Securities    Adjustments    Income
__________                ___________    __________    ___________    ______
____
Pre-tax amount               $  5           $(1)          $ 84        $  88
Tax (expense) benefit          (1)            -            (29)         (30)
                             ____           ___           ____        _____
Net amount                   $ (4)          $(1)          $ 55        $  58
                             ____           ___           ____        _____
                             ____           ___           ____        _____
____
Pre-tax amount               $(44)          $(1)          $(83)       $(128)
Tax (expense) benefit           1             1             29           31
                             ____           ___           ____        _____
Net amount                   $(43)          $ -           $(54)       $ (97)
                             ____           ___           ____        _____
                             ____           ___           ____        _____
____
Pre-tax amount               $(21)          $(1)          $ 12        $ (10)
Tax (expense) benefit           -             -              -            -
                             ____           ___           ____        _____
Net amount                   $(21)          $(1)          $ 12        $ (10)
                             ____           ___           ____        _____
                             ____           ___           ____        _____


The components of accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:

                                                                      Accum-
                                                                      ulated
                           Foreign                       Minimum      Other
                           Currency      Unrealized      Pension      Compre-
                          Translation    Losses on      Liability     hensive
$ Millions                Adjustments    Securities    Adjustments    Income
__________                ___________    __________    ___________    ______

Balance at 12/31/96         $ (47)          $ -           $(13)       $ (60)
Change in 1997                (21)           (1)            12          (10)
                            _____           ___           ____        _____
Balance at 12/31/97           (68)           (1)            (1)         (70)
Change in 1998                (43)            -            (54)         (97)
                            _____           ___           ____        _____
Balance at 12/31/98          (111)           (1)           (55)        (167)
Change in 1999                  4            (1)            55           58
                            _____           ___           ____        _____
Balance at 12/31/99         $(107)          $(2)          $  -        $(109)
                            _____           ___           ____        _____
                            _____           ___           ____        _____

NOTE 16.  SEGMENTS OF THE BUSINESS:  The Company has three operating
segments: Engine, Power Generation, and Filtration and Other.  The engine
segment produces engines and parts for sale to customers in automotive and
industrial markets.  The engines are used in trucks of all sizes, buses and
recreational vehicles, as well as various industrial applications including
construction, mining, agriculture, marine, rail and military.  The power
generation segment is the Company's power systems supplier, selling engines,
generator sets and alternators and providing temporary power through rentals
of generator sets.  The filtration and other segment includes sales of
filtration products and exhaust systems, turbochargers and company-owned
distributors.

The Company's operating segments are organized according to products and the
markets they each serve.  This business structure was designed to focus
efforts on providing enhanced service to a wide range of customers.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
the summary of significant accounting policies except that the Company
evaluates performance based on earnings before interest and income taxes and
on net assets; therefore, no allocation of debt-related items and income
taxes is made to the individual segments.



Operating segment information is as follows:

$ Millions
__________                                  Power      Filtration
1999                             Engine   Generation   and Other     Total
____                             ______   __________   ___________   ______
Net sales                        $4,225     $1,356       $1,058      $6,639
Depreciation & amortization         146         47           40         233
Income (expense) from joint
 ventures and alliances              (4)       (25)           1         (28)
Earnings before interest,
 income taxes and unusual
 charges                            182         52          122         356
Unusual charges                      18         42            -          60
Earnings before interest and
 income taxes                       164         10          122         296
Net assets                        1,015        553          868       2,436
Investment in joint
 ventures and alliances             112         11            8         131
Capital expenditures                130         49           36         215

____
Net sales                        $3,982     $1,230       $1,054      $6,266
Depreciation & amortization         120         40           39         199
Income (expense) from joint
 ventures and alliances              (4)       (25)          (1)        (30)
Earnings before interest,
 income taxes and unusual
 charges                            136         25          121         282
Unusual charges                     165         50            2         217
Earnings (loss) before
 interest & income taxes            (29)       (25)         119          65
Net assets                          946        511          803       2,260
Investment in joint
 ventures and alliances             132          3            1         136
Capital expenditures                172         67           32         271
Additions to goodwill                12          2          370         384

____
Net sales                        $3,666     $1,205       $  754      $5,625
Depreciation & amortization         102         34           22         158
Income (expense) from joint
 ventures and alliances              12         (2)           -          10
Earnings (loss) before
 interest and income taxes          207         (2)         107         312
Net assets                        1,074        531          312       1,917
Investment in joint
 ventures and alliances             133         65            6         204
Capital expenditures                304         79           22         405


Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Statements:

                                             1999         1998        1997
                                             ____         ____        ____
Earnings before interest & income
 taxes for operating segments                $296         $ 65        $312
Interest expense                               75           71          26
Income tax expense                             55            4          74
Minority interest                               6           11           -
                                             ____         ____        ____
Net earnings (loss)                          $160         $(21)       $212
                                             ____         ____        ____
                                             ____         ____        ____


                                             1999         1998        1997
                                            ______       ______      ______

Net assets for reportable segments          $2,436       $2,260      $1,917
Liabilities deducted in arriving
 at net assets                               1,922        1,926       1,583
Deferred tax assets not allocated
 to segments                                   320          334         256
Debt-related costs not allocated
 to segments                                    19           22           9
                                            ______       ______      ______
Total assets                                $4,697       $4,542      $3,765
                                            ______       ______      ______
                                            ______       ______      ______


Summary geographic information is listed below:
                                                         All
$ Millions               US         UK       Canada     Other      Total
__________             ______     ______     ______     ______     ______

____
Net sales (a)          $4,064     $  400     $  473     $1,702     $6,639
Long-lived assets      $1,434     $  206     $    -     $  264     $1,904

____
Net sales (a)          $3,595     $  389     $  459     $1,823     $6,266
Long-lived assets      $1,470     $  209     $    -     $  272     $1,951

____
Net sales (a)          $3,123     $  384     $  318     $1,800     $5,625
Long-lived assets      $1,360     $  251     $    -     $  267     $1,878

(a)  Net sales are attributed to countries based on location of customer.

Revenues from the Company's largest customer represent approximately $1.3
billion of the Company's net sales in 1999.  These sales are included in the
engine and filtration and other segments.

NOTE 17.  GUARANTEES, COMMITMENTS AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES:  At December 31,
1999, the Company had the following minimum rental commitments for
noncancelable operating leases: $47 million in 2000, $38 million in 2001, $30
million in 2002, $26 million in 2003, $18 million in 2004 and $70 million
thereafter.  Rental expense under these leases approximated $75 million in
1999, $70 million in 1998 and $60 million in 1997.

Commitments under outstanding letters of credit, guarantees and contingencies
at December 31, 1999, approximated $159 million.

Cummins and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of pending legal
actions, including actions related to use and performance of the Company's
products.  The Company carries product liability insurance covering
significant claims for damages involving personal injury and property damage.
In the event the Company is determined to be liable for damages in connection
with actions and proceedings, the unreserved portion of such liability is not
expected to be material.  The Company also has been identified as a
potentially responsible party at several waste disposal sites under US and
related state environmental statutes and regulations and has joint and
several liability for any investigation and remediation costs incurred with
respect to such sites.  The Company denies liability with respect to many of
these legal actions and environmental proceedings and vigorously is defending
such actions or proceedings.  The Company has established reserves that it
believes are adequate for its expected future liability in such actions and
proceedings where the nature and extent of such liability can be estimated
reasonably based upon presently available information.



NOTE 18.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited):

$ Millions, except                 First   Second    Third   Fourth    Full
per share amounts                 Quarter  Quarter  Quarter  Quarter   Year
__________________                _______  _______  _______  _______  ______

____
Net sales                         $1,505   $1,667   $1,631   $1,836   $6,639
Gross profit                         301      371      361      385    1,418
Net earnings                          24       58       53       25      160
Basic earnings per share          $  .63   $ 1.51   $ 1.37   $  .65   $ 4.16
Diluted earnings per share           .63     1.50     1.35      .65     4.13

____
Net sales                         $1,500   $1,635   $1,525   $1,606   $6,266
Gross profit                         297      369      258      325    1,249
Net earnings (loss)                    7       53     (110)      29      (21)
Basic earnings (loss) per share   $  .18   $ 1.39   $(2.86)  $  .75   $ (.55)
Diluted earnings (loss) per share    .18     1.38    (2.86)     .75     (.55)


Fourth quarter 1999 net earnings included a charge of $45 million, net of tax
($60 million pretax), or $1.17 per share, for the termination of the Cummins
Wartsila joint venture.

First quarter 1998 gross profit included a $43 million special charge for
product coverage costs.  The special charge, net of taxes, included in net
earnings was $30 million or $.78 per share.

Third quarter 1998 gross profit included special charges of $49 million for
product coverage costs and inventory write-downs.  Net loss for the period
also included charges for restructuring, EPA penalties and other non-
recurring items.  The total charges, net of tax, included in net loss were
$130 million or $3.38 per share.


                            CUMMINS WARTSILA SAS
                            BALANCE SHEET AS OF
                             December 31, 1999
                            ___________________
                               (FRF thousands)


                                         December 31, 1999          12/31/98
                                _________________________________   _________
                                             Amort. &
ASSETS                            Gross     Provisions     Net         Net
                                _________   __________   ________   _________
Intangible fixed assets
 Research & development costs      10,709       5,619       5,090       4,100
 Goodwill                          12,760       7,656       5,104       5,742
 Franchises, patents, licenses    423,697     148,668     275,029     390,090
 Software                          40,874      31,439       9,435       8,182
 Intangible fixed assets
  in-progress                       1,816           -       1,816         916
                                 ________    ________     _______     _______
                                  489,856     193,382     296,474     409,030
                                 ________    ________     _______     _______
Tangible fixed assets
 Land                                 925           -         925         925
 Buildings, fixtures, fittings    152,100      84,906      67,194      87,036
 Technical plant and machinery    461,272     271,927     189,345     201,448
 Other tangible fixed assets       40,306      27,725      12,581      14,367
 Tangible fixed assets
  in-progress                      35,056           -      35,056      34,018
 Advances and down payments             -           -           -         124
                                  _______     _______     _______     _______
                                  689,659     384,558     305,101     337,918
                                  _______     _______     _______     _______
Long-term investments
 Equity investments                 6,699       4,424       2,275       2,275
 Receivables from controlled
  entities                          1,374           -       1,374       1,374
 Loans and other long-term
  investments                      53,238         846      52,392      20,165
                                _________     _______     _______     _______
                                   61,311       5,270      56,041      23,814
                                _________     _______     _______     _______
Fixed assets                    1,240,826     583,210     657,616     770,762
                                _________     _______     _______     _______

Inventories and
work-in-progress
 Raw materials and other
  supplies                         62,553      14,927      47,626      68,830
 Supplies                          11,315         284      11,031       3,668
 Production work-in-progress      151,275       8,642     142,633     171,895
 Semi-finished goods              226,352      35,573     190,779     180,238
 Finished goods                    23,171           -      23,171      30,375
                                  _______     _______     _______     _______
                                  474,666      59,426     415,240     455,006
                                  _______      ______     _______     _______
Advances & down payments on
 orders                            35,752           -      35,752      28,200
                                  _______      ______     _______     _______
Receivables
 Receivables from sales           640,469      68,068     572,401     423,001
 Other operating receivables       65,852       9,833      56,019     126,579
 Liaison account                        -           -           -           -
                                  _______      ______     _______     _______
                                  706,321      77,901     628,420     549,580
                                  _______     _______     _______     _______
Marketable securities                 451           -         451         451
                                  _______     _______     _______     _______
Cash-on-hand                       37,363           -      37,363      15,229
                                _________     _______   _________   _________

Current assets                  1,254,553     137,327   1,117,226   1,048,466
                                _________     _______   _________   _________

Prepaid expenses                    9,121           -       9,121      11,577
                                _________     _______   _________   _________
Charges to be spread over
 several periods                    3,459           -       3,459       4,613
                                _________     _______   _________   _________
Unrealized foreign exchange
 losses                             6,574           -       6,574       8,091
                                _________     _______   _________   _________
TOTAL ASSETS                    2,514,533     720,537   1,793,996   1,843,509
                                _________     _______   _________   _________
                                _________     _______   _________   _________


                              CUMMINS WARTSILA SAS
                              BALANCE SHEET AS OF
                               December 31, 1999
                              ___________________
                                (FRF thousands)


                                             December 31, 1999      12/31/98
                                           ______________________   _________
                                                         Partial
LIABILITIES                                 Amounts      Amounts     Amounts
                                           _________    _________   _________
Shareholders' equity
 Share Capital                               500,000                  500,000
 Legal Reserve                                     -                        -
 Restricted reserve as of 3/31/98                  -                  129,521
 L/T capital gain reserve                      2,967                    2,967
 Profit and loss brought forward            (451,967)                       -
 Income for the period                       106,072                 (581,488)
 Investment subsidies                          8,385                    8,047
 Cumulative translation adjustment            26,776                   14,497
                                                        _________   _________
 Total shareholders' equity                               192,233      73,544
                                                        _________   _________

Conditional advances                                        5,598       5,598
                                                        _________   _________
 Provision for legal disputes and
  commitments                                103,901                   77,192
 Provision for restructuring and
  retirement                                 166,681                  276,722
                                                        _________   _________
 Total provisions                                         270,582     353,914
                                                        _________   _________
Liabilities
Financial liabilities:
  Medium-term loans                          640,000                  844,000
  Short-term credits                               -                        -
  Miscellaneous loans and financial
   liabilities                                17,521                   21,898
  Other loans                                  9,467                   34,337
                                                        _________   _________
                                                          666,988     900,235
                                                        _________   _________
Down payments on orders in-progress                       254,800     100,327
                                                        _________   _________
Operating liabilities
  Trade payables & assimilated accounts      305,914                  325,443
  Tax and social liabilities                  58,272                   45,835
  Other liabilities                           26,213                   30,408
                                                        _________   _________
                                                          390,399     401,686
                                                        _________   _________
Payables to fixed asset suppliers                           3,586       4,110
                                                        _________   _________
Total liabilities                                       1,315,773   1,406,358
                                                        _________   _________
Prepaid revenue                                             2,184       1,499
                                                        _________   _________
Unrealized gains on foreign exchange                        7,626       2,596
                                                        _________   _________
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                       1,793,996   1,843,509
                                                        _________   _________
                                                        _________   _________


                             CUMMINS WARTSILA SAS
                              INCOME STATEMENT
                              December 31, 1999
                             ____________________
                               (FRF thousands)


                                               12/31/99          12/31/98
                                               _________         _________
Operating revenues
  Net revenues                                 1,031,011           955,348
  Change in stored production                    (43,159)           32,355
  In-house production                              9,410            75,972
  Subsidies                                          466             2,114
  Reversal of provisions and expense
   transfers                                     167,147           179,941
  Other revenues                                     839             2,484
                                               _________         _________
                                               1,165,714         1,248,214
                                               _________         _________
Operating expenses
 Purchases                                       594,749           626,352
 Change in inventories                           (13,449)           22,375
 Other purchases & external charges              403,213           441,074
 Taxes and assimilated payments                   13,814            19,598
 Payroll and associated costs                    209,846           198,983
 Social charges                                   75,869            83,419
 Allocations:
  Depreciation & amortization of tangible
   and intangible fixed assets                   103,152            99,156
  Depreciation of charges allocated
   over several periods                            1,153             1,153
  Provisions for depreciation of assets           34,012            41,236
  Provisions for losses & contingencies          164,620            89,414
  Other charges                                   21,850             6,156
                                               _________         _________
                                               1,608,829         1,628,916
                                               _________         _________
1. Operating income/loss                        (443,115)         (380,702)
                                               _________         _________

Share of income from joint ventures                1,695                 -
                                               _________         _________
Financial income
 Other interest & assimilated income               2,463             3,357
 Reversal of provisions and expense
  transfers                                        9,094             5,406
 Positive exchange rate differences                9,572            14,961
                                               _________         _________
                                                  21,129            23,724
                                               _________         _________
Financial charges
 Depreciation and provisions                       8,412             9,094
 Interest and assimilated charges                 37,715            34,983
 Negative exchange rate differences               17,750            18,335
                                               _________         _________
                                                  63,877            62,412
                                               _________         _________
2. Financial income/loss                         (42,748)          (38,688)
                                               _________         _________
3. Current income before tax                    (484,168)         (419,390)
                                               _________         _________
"Exceptional" revenues
 On management transactions                      600,460               882
 On capital transactions                           1,195             1,161
 Share of investment subs. allocated
  to income statement                                190                97
 Reversal of other provisions                    140,285            15,292
                                               _________         _________
                                                 742,130            17,432
                                               _________         _________
"Exceptional" charges
 On management transactions                       43,265             7,478
 On capital transactions                           1,020             1,251
 Restructuring expense                           107,405           176,800
                                               _________         _________
                                                 151,690           185,529
                                               _________         _________
4. Extraordinary income/loss                     590,440          (168,097)
                                               _________         _________
5. Corporate income tax                              200            (5,999)
                                               _________         _________
6. Income/loss                                   106,072          (581,488)
                                               _________         _________
                                               _________         _________



NOTES

1. Activity

   The twelve month financial period ended December 31, 1999 shows
   accounting revenues of FRF 1,031.0 million (Euro 157.1 million),
   compared to FRF 955.3 million (Euro 145.6 million) for the previous
   financial period.

                         Net sales development
                         _____________________
                            (FRF millions)
                          (12-months periods)

                        Year          Net Sales
                        ____          _________
                        1994           1,012
                        1995           1,085
                        1996           1,191
                        1997           1,206
                        1998             955
                        1999           1,031

   Direct exports were FRF 533.2 million (Euro 81.3 million), i.e. 52%
   of total revenues excluding taxes.  Taking indirect exports into
   account, the share of revenues relating to foreign markets was FRF
   743.4 million (Euro 113.3 million), i.e. 72% of revenues excluding
   taxes.

                          Direct exports in 1999
                             FRF 533.2 million
                          ______________________
                                              Percent of
              Foreign Markets                Export Sales
              _______________                ____________
                Europe                            41%
                Asia                              21%
                Africa                            20%
                Americas                          17%
                Other                              1%

   Orders in 1999 amounted to FRF 1,017 million (Euro 155 million).  At
   the end of the period, new orders were FRF 540 million (Euro 82
   million).

    332 megawatts were delivered in 1999.

2. Accounting principles

   Cummins Wartsila prepares its financial statements in accordance with
   French accounting principles.

   The same accounting principles were used as those used for the 1998
   financial period.

2.1. Foreign currency translation

     Transactions in foreign currency outside Euro area are recorded at the
     following exchange rates:
     . Daily transactions are converted into French francs as follows:
       -  Purchase and sales invoices by using the monthly rates published
          by the French Customs Authorities.
       -  Payments and receipts using daily bank rates.



     . Valuation of receivables and liabilities in foreign currency as of
       December 31, 1999 takes place in line with the last known rate
       before the period end.  These rates were published in the Journal
       Officiel (Gazette).

     The assets and liabilities of the two sites in England are converted
     using the exchange rate in effect on December 31, 1999.  The income
     statement is converted at the average monthly exchange rate.

2.2. Intangible fixed assets

     The costs of studies and trials relating to specific markets and
     benefiting from advances whose repayment is conditional are booked in
     Research and Development costs.  The amount for this year is FRF 4.5
     million (Euro 0.7 million).  These costs are amortized over a period
     of three years.

     Former WARTSILA France's own goodwill, increased by the contribution
     related to the takeover of Societe Surgerienne de Constructions
     Mecaniques of Budi and by the repair activity of Wartsila Diesel
     France, is amortized over a period of twenty years.

     Intangible fixed assets related to know-how and technology of engines
     CW 200 and the CW 170, capitalized in 1997 for an amount of FRF 350
     million and increased to FRF 418.9 million by the end of 1998, are
     amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of 15 years. Further
     to the change of Shareholders and to the split of the CW 170 activity
     forecasted for January 2000:

     .  the 1999 costs related to know-how and technology of the CW 200
        were capitalized for a sum of FRF 4.7 million (Euro 0.7 million).
        These costs are amortized over the remaining useful life of the
        intangible fixed assets mentioned at the beginning of this paragraph.

     .  an extraordinary depreciation of FRF 91.2 million (Euro 13.9
        million) related to the technology of CW 170 was booked.

     Software is amortized on a straight-line basis over four years; low
     value software is amortized over 12 months.

2.3. Tangible fixed assets

     Tangible fixed assets are recorded at their acquisition cost.

     Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the following
     useful life periods:

             .  Buildings                     20  years
             .  Fixtures and fittings         10  years
             .  Industrial equipment          10  years
             .  Development motors             2  years
             .  Plant                          3  years
             .  Transport equipment            4  years
             .  Furniture                     10  years
             .  Office equipment               4  years
             .  IT equipment                   4  years

2.4. Inventories and work-in-progress

     Purchased inventory is valued at average weighted cost.



     Work-in-progress is valued at total cost of production, which includes
     both cost of material purchased and manufacturing costs.
     Manufacturing costs include normal production costs as well as
     depreciation charges.

     Articles with a low turnover are subject to sliding provisions of up
     to 100% of their value.  Provisions are booked in work-in-progress
     accounts if circumstances place the completion of the project in
     jeopardy.

     A provision is set aside for inventories of raw materials and work-in-
     progress relating to engines in the start-up phase of production when
     inventory costs exceed the estimated sales price.  The provision
     recorded represents the excess of costs over the sales price.

2.5. Sales

     The principle of product recognition is the following:

     .  upon dispatch of the engines and the spare parts

     .  upon completion of work in relation to repairs and upgrading

     .  for important, large-scale engines whose manufacture involves long-
        term contracts, product recognition is applied according to the
        following methods:

       Engineering contracts:

       .  for the study and document submission phases, billing takes
          place as work progresses; the triggering event is the
          submission of plans.

       .  equipment is billed on the basis of deliveries on a pro
          rata basis with a check being made to ensure that the
          margin generated at this stage is in line with the average
          margin of the contract as a whole.

       Military contracts:

       .  Billing for development and industrialization contracts
          takes place as work progresses at a pace agreed on by the
          parties.

     .  as work progresses for turn key installations.

2.6. Loss and contingency provisions

     Provisions are set aside for the estimated value of the work to be
     carried out relating to the installation and commissioning of engines
     delivered and invoiced.

     The company sets aside provisions on the basis of statistical data in
     order to cover possible expenses relating to the guarantee given to
     customers.

     Lastly, contingency provisions are set aside for legal disputes with
     customers likely to involve either additional work or to pose a risk
     to the payment of receivables.



2.7. Retirement indemnities

     Estimated retirement indemnities due upon the retirement of an
     employee, to which must be added social charges at the average company
     rate, are calculated according to the following criteria:

           .  employees' length of service with the company
           .  person's age
           .  mortality table
           .  turnover rate of the company's own personnel
           .  discount rate, excluding inflation
           .  inflation rate

3. Shareholders' equity

3.1. Share capital

     As of March 31, 1999, the share capital was FRF 500,000,000.  It is
     composed of 5,000,000 shares, each of a par value of FRF 100.  The
     capital is held in equal amounts by CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY Limited and
     WARTSILA NSD Corporation.

3.2. Reserve account

     Following the decision of the Ordinary General Meeting of Cummins
     Wartsila of June 30, 1999, the reserve account is balanced with the
     corresponding amount of the 1999 loss.

3.3. Loss of half of capital

     Due to the losses recorded in the financial accounts, shareholders'
     equity has fallen below half the nominal value of share capital.
     Decision concerning the continuation of the business activity was
     taken during the Extraordinary General Meeting of October 31, 1999.
     The regularization of the situation must take place in 2001 at the
     latest.

4. Comments relating to exceptional items

   The most significant extraordinary items consist of:

                                                        (FRF Millions)
                                                      Charges     Revenues
                                                      _______     ________

 .  Loan waver                                                       600.0
 .  Reversal of the excess provision for
   restructuring charges                                            139.6
 .  Penalties on contracts                                9.6
 .  Shutdown of Ramsgate (UK)                            31.9
 .  Depreciation related to the CW 170 technology        91.2
 .  Tangible Fixed Assets provision linked to
   the restructuring                                    16.2



5. Subsidies

   The company received an investment subsidy for the acquisition of new
   equipment. A portion of this subsidy is reversed to income at the same
   rate as depreciation relating to equipment.

   Furthermore, the company receives Credit National loans known as
   `article 90' loans for the financing of research programs. These loans
   are only repaid if research results are successful. In the case of a
   recognized failure or if commercial success has not been achieved
   within a certain time, these loans are converted into subsidies.

6. Operating receivables

   Provisions, calculated on a case by case basis, are set aside for
   doubtful debts.

7. Research tax credit

   The company has got a receivable related to tax research credit in its
   accounts.

   This credit may be set against the charge for tax during the next three
   years following the closing year where the declaration was issue.
   After this period, the portion exceeding the tax charge will be paid
   back to the company.

8. Prepaid expenses

   This account consists mainly of insurance charges of FRF 6.5 million
   (Euro 1 million) to be allocated over the twelve months following
   payment of the premium.

9. Charges to be spread over several periods

   These consist of costs borne by the company relating to engines
   installed in field tests. They are spread over 5 years and 1/5 of the
   costs are amortized in the current period.

10. Off balance sheet commitments

   The company's commitments relating to the hedging of future currency to
   be cashed in or out during the next twelve months are as follows:

                       Amount in
                       millions      Amount in      Amount in
                       foreign       millions       millions
                       currency         FRF           Euro
                       ________      _________      _________

         .  USD          6.3           40.0            6.1
         .  GBP          1.6           16.3            2.4

   Other miscellaneous commitments appear in the table attached as an
   appendix.



11. Incorporation into the consolidated financial statements

   The financial statements of our company are consolidated on a like by
   like basis, using the equity method of consolidation, by our parent
   companies:

       CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, Inc., Columbus, Indiana, USA

       METRA CORPORATION, Helsinki, Finland

   In light of the insignificant nature of the subsidiaries held by
   CUMMINS WARTSILA, consolidated financial statements were not prepared.

12. Information concerning the remuneration of the directors

   This information was not provided, as it would have led to disclosure
   of the amount of an individual salary.



                  I.  MOVEMENT IN FIXED ASSETS - GROSS VALUE
                  __________________________________________
                                (FRF thousands)

                                                                      Gross
                              Situation                               Value
                               As of                                  As Of
                               1/1/99     Acquisitions   Disposals   12/31/99
                              _________   ____________   _________   ________
Intangible fixed assets
_______________________

Research & development costs      6,150       4,559             -     10,709
Goodwill                         12,760           -             -     12,760
Licenses                             50           -             -         50
Software                         32,643       8,249            18     40,874
Know-how W170 & W200            418,907       4,740             -    423,647
Intangible fixed assets
 in-progress                        916         900             -      1,816
                                _______     _______       _______    _______
                                471,426      18,448            18    489,856
                                _______     _______       _______    _______
                                _______     _______       _______    _______

Tangible fixed assets
_____________________

Land                                925           -             -        925
Buildings,fixtures,fittings     149,869       5,086         2,855    152,100
Technical plant & machinery     426,222      38,161         3,111    461,272
Other tangible fixed assets      39,123       3,593         2,410     40,306
Tangible fixed assets
 in-progress                     34,018       1,038             -     35,056
Advances and down payments          124        (124)            -          -
                                _______     _______       _______    _______
                                650,281      47,754         8,376    689,659
                                _______     _______       _______    _______
                                _______     _______       _______    _______


              II.  MOVEMENT OF DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION CHARGES
              ______________________________________________________
                                (FRF thousands)


                               Situation  Allocation   Depr. of   Situation
                                as of      for the     disposed     as of
                                1/1/99     period       assets     12/31/99
                               _________  __________   ________    ________
Intangible fixed assets
_______________________

Research & development costs      2,050      3,569           -       5,619
Goodwill                          7,018        638           -       7,656
Licenses                              5          5           -          10
Software                         24,461      6,996          18      31,439
Know-how W170 & W200             28,861    119,797           -     148,658
                                _______    _______     _______     _______
                                 62,395    131,005          18     193,382
                                _______    _______     _______     _______
                                _______    _______     _______     _______

Tangible fixed assets
_____________________

Buildings,fixtures,fittings      62,833     24,194       2,121      84,906
Technical plant & machinery     224,774     50,252       3,099     271,927
Other tangible fixed assets      24,756      5,105       2,136      27,725
                                _______    _______     _______     _______
                                312,363     79,551       7,356     384,558
                                _______    _______     _______     _______
                                _______    _______     _______     _______








                              IV.  TRADE RECEIVABLES
                              ______________________
                                  (FRF thousands)

                                Amount      Amount      Gross
                               > 1 year    < 1 year     Total    Depreciation
                               ________    ________    _______   ____________

Receivables on capitalized
assets
 Receivables from controlled
  entities                        1,374                  1,374
 Loans                           19,300                 19,300

Current assets receivables

Trade receivables and
assimilated accounts

 France
  Affiliated companies                -      31,984     31,984            -
  Other receivables                 225     155,993    156,218       24,376
  Commercial papers                  56      14,458     14,514            -
                                 ______     _______    _______      _______
   Total France                     281     202,435    202,716       24,376
                                 ______     _______    _______      _______
 Export
  Affiliated companies              248     115,376    115,624        9,473
  Other receivables               2,646     314,064    316,710       34,219
  Commercial papers                   -           -          -            -
                                 ______     _______    _______      _______
   Total export                   2,894     429,440    432,334       43,692
                                 ______     _______    _______      _______
Total receivables                 3,175     631,875    635,050       68,068
                                 ______     _______    _______      _______
                                 ______     _______    _______      _______

Other receivables
  Affiliated companies                -       2,997      2,997            -
  Others                          5,200      63,074     68,274        9,833
                                _______     _______    _______      _______
Total other receivables           5,200      66,071     71,271        9,833
                                _______     _______    _______      _______
                                _______     _______    _______      _______


                              V.  FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
                              _________________________
                                    (FRF thousands)


                              Maturity    Maturity     Maturity
                                date        date         date
                               5 years     Total
                              ________    _________   __________    _______

Medium-term loans                   -      640,000           -      640,000
Other loans                    17,688            -       9,300       26,988
                               ______      _______       _____      _______
Total                          17,688      640,000       9,300      666,988
                               ______      _______       _____      _______
                               ______      _______       _____      _______


                             VI. INCOME STATEMENT
                               (SPECIAL FORMAT)
                             ____________________
                              (FRF thousands)


                                                   12/31/99        12/31/98
                                                   _________       _________

Production sold                                    1,031,011         955,349
Change in inventory of finished goods & WIP          (43,159)         32,355
Self-created fixed assets                              9,410          75,971
                                                   _________       _________
Total production                                     997,262       1,063,675

Purchases adj. for changes in inventories           (836,135)       (878,092)
Other external charges                              (142,551)       (149,478)
Change in provision for losses                       (30,868)        (11,929)
                                                   _________       _________
Value added                                          (12,292)         24,176

Operating subsidies                                      466           2,114
Taxes and assimilated payments                       (13,739)        (19,414)
Payroll charges                                     (280,272)       (277,028)
                                                   _________       _________
Operating cash flow                                 (305,837)       (270,152)

Depreciation and amortization charges               (104,306)       (100,308)
Change in provision on current assets                 15,145         (21,295)
Change in contingency provision                      (27,106)         (4,733)
Other revenues                                           839           2,483
Other charges                                        (21,850)         (6,156)
                                                    _________       _________
Operating income                                    (443,115)       (400,161)

Share of income from joint ventures                    1,695               -
Financial income                                      21,129          23,724
Financial charges                                    (63,877)        (62,411)
                                                   _________       _________
Current income                                      (484,168)       (438,848)

"Exceptional" revenue                                740,934        (141,168)
"Exceptional" charges                               (150,670)         (7,478)
                                                   _________       _________
Income before tax                                    106,096        (587,494)

Corporate income tax                                    (200)          5,999
Income on disposal of fixed asset items                  176               7
                                                   _________       _________

Net accounting income                                106,072        (581,488)
                                                   _________       _________
                                                   _________       _________




                     VII.  TABLE OF OFF BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS
                     ____________________________________________
                                   (FRF thousands)



                                                        Affiliated
Type of commitment                          Total       Companies      Others
__________________                        _________     __________    ________
Commitments given
Commercial guarantees provided by
 banks and other institutions               141,966          6,187     135,779
Lease purchase commitments                    2,296              -       2,296
                                          _________      _________     _______
Total                                       144,262          6,187     138,075
                                          _________      _________     _______
                                          _________      _________     _______
Commitments received
Guarantees received from suppliers            5,304              -       5,304
Guarantees on lines of credit             1,000,000      1,000,000           -
                                          _________      _________     _______
Total                                     1,005,304      1,000,000       5,304
                                          _________      _________     _______
                                          _________      _________     _______
Reciprocal commitments
Sale of foreign currency futures             40,031              -      40,031
Purchase of foreign currency futures         16,333              -      16,333
                                          _________      _________     _______
Total                                        56,364              -      56,364
                                          _________      _________     _______
                                          _________      _________     _______

Discounted bills                              5,035              -       5,035
                                          _________      _________     _______
                                          _________      _________     _______


*Sales and purchases of foreign currency are shown in the appendix.
















         XII.  ITEMS RELATING TO SEVERAL BALANCE SHEET ITEMS AND
               CONCERNING AFFILIATED COMPANIES
         _______________________________________________________
                              (FRF thousands)


                                            Gross                      Net
                                            amount     Depreciation   amount
                                            _______    ____________  ________
1.  Assets
    ______

1.1 Fixed Assets

   Equity interests                           3,296        1,021        2,275
   Receivables from controlled entities       1,374            -        1,374

1.2 Current Assets

   Advances & down payments on orders           786            -          786
   Trade receivables and assimilated
    accounts                                147,608        9,474      138,134
   Other receivables                          2,997            -        2,997

2.  Liabilities
    ___________

    Equity loan                                                             -
    Other cash advances                                                     -
    Other loans                                                             -
    Advances on orders-in-progress                                     27,374
    Trade payables and assimilated
     accounts                                                          53,665
    Other liabilities                                                   3,751

    Financial revenue                                                       -
    Financial charges                                                   7,521


Affiliated companies:
                      CUMMINS
                      CUMMINS WARTSILA WEST AFRICA
                      CUMMINS WARTSILA ACO
                      CUMMINS WARTSILA MOTEUR S.A.
                      WARTSILA (Consolidated Group)
                      METRA FINANCE




                              SIGNATURES
                              __________

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.



By     /s/K. M. Patel                     By     /s/R. C. Crane
       __________________________                _____________________
       K. M. Patel                               R. C. Crane
       Executive Vice President &                Vice President -
       Chief Financial Officer                   Corporate Controller
      (Principal Financial Officer)             (Principal Accounting
                                                 Officer)


Date:  March 1, 2000


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signatures                   Title                                Date
__________                   _____                                ____


                             Director & Chairman and Chief
       *                     Executive Officer (Principal         3/1/2000
________________________     Executive Officer)
(Theodore M. Solso)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(Harold Brown)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(Robert J. Darnall)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(John M. Deutch)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(W. Y. Elisha)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(Hanna H. Gray)



Signatures                   Title                                Date
__________                   _____                                ____


       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(James A. Johnson)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(William I. Miller)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(William  D. Ruckelshaus)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(H. B. Schacht)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(F. A. Thomas)

       *
________________________     Director                             3/1/2000
(J. Lawrence Wilson)





By     /s/K. M. Patel
       ________________
       K. M. Patel
       Attorney-in-fact


                     CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.
                             EXHIBIT INDEX
                     ____________________________


3(a)    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Cummins Engine Company,
        Inc., as amended (incorporated by reference to Quarterly
        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 3, 1994, by
        reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended October 1, 1989 and by reference to Form 8-K dated
        July 26, 1990).

3(b)    By-laws of Cummins Engine Company, Inc., as amended and
        restated effective as of August 12, 1994 (incorporated
        by reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended October 2, 1994).

4(a)    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (incorporated by
        reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended March 29, 1998).

4(b)    Rights Agreement, as amended (incorporated by reference to
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1989, by reference to Form 8-K dated July 26, 1990, by
        reference to Form 8 dated November 6, 1990, by reference to
        Form 8-A/A dated November 1, 1993, and by reference to
        Form 8-A/A dated January 12, 1994 and by reference to
        Form 8-A/A dated July 15, 1996).

10(a)   Target Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Annual Report
        on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

10(b)   Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1994).

10(c)   Key Employee Stock Investment Plan, as amended (incorporated
        by reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended July 3, 1994).

10(d)   Supplemental Life Insurance and Deferred Income Plan
        (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for
        the year ended December 31, 1996).

10(e)   Financial Counseling Program, (incorporated by reference to
        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        July 3, 1994).

10(f)   1986 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Quarterly
        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 1986,
        Exhibit 10(g)).

10(g)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as
        amended, effective as of April 15, 1994 (incorporated by
        reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
        December 31, 1994).

10(h)   Key Executive Compensation Protection Plan (incorporated by
        reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended October 2, 1994).

10(i)   Excess Benefit Retirement Plan, (incorporated by reference to
        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 2,
        1994).

10(j)   Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998).



10(k)   Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Cummins Engine
        Company, Inc., as amended February 1997 (incorporated by
        reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended March 30, 1997).

10(l)   Stock Unit Appreciation Plan effective October 1990
        (incorporated by reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended April 2, 1995, Exhibit 10(m)).

10(m)   Three Year Performance Plan as amended February 1997
        (incorporated by reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
        for the quarter ended March 30, 1997).

10(n)   Consulting arrangement with Harold Brown (incorporated by
        reference to the description thereof provided in the Company's
        definitive Proxy Statement).

10(o)   1992 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Annual
        Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
        Exhibit 10(s)).

10(p)   Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended
        February 11, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Quarterly
        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 1997).

10(q)   Executive Retention Plan (incorporated by reference to Annual
        Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995,
        Exhibit 10(u)).

10(r)   Performance Share Plan, as amended January 1989 (incorporated
        by reference to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
        ended April 2, 1995, Exhibit 10(j)).

10(s)   Senior Executive Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).

10(t)   Senior Executive Three Year Performance Plan, as amended
        February 11, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Quarterly
        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 1997).

21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith).

23      Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP (filed herewith).

24      Powers of Attorney (filed herewith).

27      Financial Data Schedule (filed herewith).



