
10-K
1993 10-K


                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                                 


Part     Item                        Description                      Page
~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~

  I        1      Business                                              2
           2      Properties                                           12
           3      Legal Proceedings                                    12
           4      Submission of Matters to Vote of Security Holders    13

 II        5      Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and
                   Related Stockholder Matters                         13
           6      Selected Financial Data                              14
           7      Management's Discussion & Analysis of Results
                   of Operations and Financial Condition               15
           8      Financial Statements & Supplemental Data             21
           9      Disagreements on Accounting & Financial
                   Disclosure                                          22

III       10      Directors & Executive Officers of the Registrant     22
          11      Executive Compensation                               23
          12      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
                   and Management                                      24
          13      Certain Relationships & Related Transactions         24

 IV       14      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and
                   Reports on Form 8-K                                 24
                  Index to Financial Statements & Schedules            25
                  Signatures                                           57
                  Exhibit Index                                        59


(page)


PART I
~~~~~~                           
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~

OVERVIEW
~~~~~~~~

Cummins Engine Company, Inc. ("Cummins" or "the Company") is a leading 
worldwide designer and manufacturer of fuel-efficient diesel engines 
and related products.  Engines ranging from 76 to 2,000 horsepower 
serve a wide variety of equipment in Cummins' key markets:  heavy-duty 
truck, midrange truck, power generation, bus and light commercial 
vehicles, industrial products, government and marine.  In addition, 
Cummins produces strategic components and subsystems critical to the 
engine, including filters, turbochargers and electronic control 
systems.

Cummins sells its products to original equipment manufacturers 
("OEMs"), distributors and other customers worldwide and conducts 
manufacturing, sales, distribution and service activities in most 
areas of the world.  In 1993, approximately 56 percent of net sales 
were made in the United States.  Major international markets include 
the United Kingdom and Europe (14 percent of net sales); Asia, the Far 
East and Australia (13 percent of net sales); and Mexico and South 
America (8 percent of net sales).

Cummins' growing presence in international markets and its significant 
investment in emissions technology have created opportunities for 
cooperative arrangements with vertically integrated manufacturers 
worldwide.   In addition to agreements with major US equipment 
manufacturers, Cummins recently developed alliances with Scania of 
Sweden to develop a fuel system for heavy-duty diesel engines; with 
Tata Engineering and Locomotive Company ("TELCO") of India to 
manufacture Cummins B Series engines for TELCO trucks; and with 
Komatsu of Japan to produce Cummins B Series engines in Japan and to 
adapt for production high-horsepower Komatsu-designed engines in the 
United States.

BUSINESS MARKETS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

     Heavy-duty Truck
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Company has a complete product line of 8-, 10-, 11- and 14-litre 
diesel engines that range from 260 to 500 horsepower serving the 
heavy-duty truck market.  Cummins' heavy-duty diesel engines are 
offered as standard or optional power by most major heavy-duty truck 
manufacturers in North America.  The seven largest US heavy-duty truck 
OEMs produced approximately 98 percent of the heavy-duty trucks sold 
in North America in 1993.  The loss of certain of these customers 
could have an adverse effect on the Company's business.  The Company's 
largest customer for heavy-duty truck engines in 1993 was Navistar 
International Corporation, which represented 7.5 percent of the 
Company's 1993 net sales.  In 1993, the Company accounted for 62.7 
percent of Navistar's heavy-duty engine purchases.

In the heavy-duty truck market, the Company competes with independent 
engine manufacturers as well as truck producers who manufacture diesel 
engines for their own products.  Certain of these integrated 
manufacturers also are customers of the Company.  In North America, 
the Company's primary competitors in the heavy-duty truck engine 
market are Caterpillar, Inc., Detroit Diesel Corporation and Mack 
Trucks, Inc.  The Company's principal competitors in international 
markets vary from country to country, with local manufacturers 
generally predominant in each geographic market.  Other diesel engine 
manufacturers in international markets include Mercedes Benz, AB 
Volvo, Renault Vehicles Industriels, Iveco Diesel Engines, Hino 
Motors, Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd., Isuzu Motors, Ltd., 
DAF Group N.V. and SAAB-Scania A.B.

The North American heavy-duty truck market is affected significantly 
by the overall level of economic activity.  In 1993, North American 
heavy-duty truck production grew by 34 percent from the previous 
year's level.  Production was 174,000 trucks in 1993 compared to 
130,000 in 1992 and 96,000 in 1991.  The Company's share of the North 
American heavy-duty truck engine market was 35 percent in 1993, which 
was significantly higher than its nearest competitor.  The Company's 
share of the North American heavy-duty truck engine market was 37 
percent in 1992 and 38 percent in 1991.

While the European truck market continued at depressed levels during 
1993, the UK market began to recover, producing at total of 13,300 
units, compared to 10,000 in 1992.  Cummins' share of the UK market 
was approximately 14 percent in 1993.

The Mexican heavy-duty truck market declined approximately 18 percent 
in 1993, from 7,900 units in 1992 to 6,500 units in 1993, due 
primarily to high interest rates and restrictive economic policies 
imposed by the Mexican government to reduce inflation.  The Company's 
share of this market was nearly 80 percent in 1993.

     Midrange Truck
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Company has a product line of diesel engines ranging from 160 to 
300 horsepower serving midrange and intercity delivery truck 
customers.  The Company entered the North American midrange diesel 
engine truck market in 1990.  Production of medium-duty trucks in 
North America grew 5 percent in 1993 from 105,000 units in 1992 to 
110,000 units in 1993.  The Company's share of the market in 1993 was 
30 percent, a major factor of which was sales to Ford Motor Company.  
In 1993, Ford completed its introduction of the Company's B and C 
Series engines as exclusive diesel power in its medium-duty truck 
line.  Ford was the Company's largest customer for midrange engines 
for this market in 1993, representing approximately 5 percent of the 
Company's net sales.

The Company also sells its B and C Series engines and engine 
components outside North America to midrange truck markets in Asia, 
Europe and South America.  Cummins and TELCO, India's largest truck 
manufacturer, formed a joint venture in 1993 to manufacture B Series 
engines in India for TELCO vehicles.   Cummins engines will be phased 
into these vehicles beginning in 1994, with production to begin at the 
joint venture's plant in 1995.

In the midrange truck market, the Company competes with independent 
engine manufacturers as well as truck producers who manufacture diesel 
engines for their own products.  Certain of these integrated 
manufacturers also are customers of the Company.   Primary engine 
competitors in the midrange truck market in North America are Navistar 
International Corporation and Caterpillar, Inc.  The Company's 
principal competitors in international markets vary from country to 
country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each 
geographic market.  Other diesel engine manufacturers in international 
markets include Mercedes Benz, AB Volvo, Renault Vehicles Industriels, 
Iveco Diesel Engines, Hino-Motors Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, 
Ltd., Isuzu Motors, Ltd., DAF Group N.V., SAAB-Scania A.B., Perkins 
Engines Ltd., and Nissan.

     Power Generation
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In 1993, power generation continued to represent over 20 percent of 
the Company's net sales.  Products include the complete line of 
Cummins' engines, Onan's gasoline engines, generator sets and switches 
and Newage alternators.  These products serve the stationary power, 
mobile and alternator markets.

In stationary power, Onan's industrial business and Cummins' G-drive 
groups provide electrical and engine power generation products and 
services to essentially all major markets worldwide.  The product line 
is the broadest in the industry, ranging from 5 to 1500 kW.

In the mobile business, Onan is a leading supplier of power generation 
sets for the recreational vehicle market in the United States.  As 
part of a Department of Energy contract, Onan recently was selected to 
develop a 35 kW auxiliary power unit for passenger hybrid electric 
vehicles.

     Bus and Light Commercial Vehicles
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This market includes Cummins-powered pickup trucks, school buses, 
urban transit buses, delivery trucks and recreational vehicles.  In 
1993, sales increased almost 20 percent over the 1992 level.

Chrysler, which offers the Cummins B Series engines in its Dodge Ram 
pickup truck, was the Company's largest customer for midrange engines 
in this market, representing 5.4 percent of the Company's net sales in 
1993.

Cummins' share of the US transit bus market was 40 percent in 1993, 
due in part to the introduction of the C Series engines and Cummins' 
natural gas L10 engine.  Cummins' natural gas engine was the first 
natural gas fueled heavy-duty engine certified by the California Air 
Resources Board.  In 1993, sales of engines for school buses, 
recreational vehicles and light commercial vehicles, including 
delivery trucks and panel vans, also were strong.

In these markets, the Company also competes with both independent 
manufacturers of diesel engines and vehicle producers who manufacture 
diesel engines for their own products.  Primary manufacturers of 
diesel engines for the bus and light commercial truck markets are 
Detroit Diesel Corporation, General Motors Corporation, Navistar 
International Corporation, Perkins Engines Ltd., MAN, AB Volvo, 
Mercedes Benz and SAAB-Scania A.B.

     Industrial Products
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cummins' engines power more than 3,000 models of equipment for the 
construction, logging, mining, agricultural, petroleum and rail 
markets.  Worldwide sales of Cummins products to this market increased 
approximately 3 percent in 1993, compared to 1992.  The increase in 
sales was primarily in international markets.

Industrial markets are recovering modestly in the United States.  
Cummins introduced the B Series engine at 200 horsepower in 1993.  It 
was the first engine to be introduced to the marketplace which meets 
the stringent 1996 California off-highway emissions regulations.

In 1993, Cummins and Komatsu formed joint ventures to produce Cummins' 
B Series engines in Japan and Komatsu's 30-litre engine in the United 
States.  Production at both joint venture sites is expected to 
commence in 1996.

     Government
     ~~~~~~~~~~

Cummins sells engines for a variety of military and civilian 
applications.  Government sales continued to decline in 1993 from a 
peak of $236 million in 1991.  The Company believes that this market 
may decline further due to reductions in US military expenditures.

Cummins Military Systems Co. ("CMSC"), which specialized in rebuilt 
military vehicles, was one of two bidders competing for a production 
contract to remanufacture up to 10,000 US Army 2-1/2 ton trucks.   
CMSC was unsuccessful in its bid and, as a result, the Company has 
closed CMSC and will dispose of its assets.


 
    Marine
    ~~~~~~

Product applications span 76 to 1,400 horsepower for recreational, 
commercial and military markets.  In 1993,  marine sales were 
approximately 6 percent higher than in 1992, with Asia representing 
the most rapidly growing market for these products.

     Fleetguard, Holset and Cummins Electronics
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sales of filters, turbochargers and electronic systems represented 
approximately 11 percent of the Company's sales in 1993, compared to 
approximately 12 percent in 1992 and 1991.  Effective at the beginning 
of the third quarter of 1993, the Company transferred its 80-percent 
interest in McCord Heat Transfer Corp., to Behr America Holding, Inc., 
for a 35-percent interest in Behr America Holding, Inc., a company 
that also holds all of the North American operations of Julius F. Behr 
of Germany.  The Company's minority interest in Behr America Holding, 
Inc., has been reported as an unconsolidated company since the third 
quarter of 1993.

Fleetguard is a leading manufacturer of products for the North 
American heavy-duty filter industry.  Its products also are produced 
and sold in international markets, including Europe, Mexico, India, 
Australia and the Far East.

Holset's products also are sold worldwide.  In 1993, Holset introduced 
a new viscous damper and coupling design, as well as an air compressor 
for the heavy-duty market.  In 1993, Holset also completed the 
acquisition of Kompressorenbau Bannewitz GmbH near Dresden, Germany, 
which produces turbochargers for high-horsepower diesel engines.

Cummins Electronics provides controls for Cummins' engines and on-
board business information and specialized electronics systems for 
Cummins' customers.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

     Research and Development
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cummins conducts an extensive research and engineering program to 
achieve product improvements, innovations and cost reductions, as well 
as to satisfy legislated emissions requirements.  As disclosed in Note 
1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, research and development 
expenditures approximated $158 million in 1993, $129 million in 1992 
and $99 million in 1991.

     Sales and Distribution
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While the Company has several supply contracts for its products in on- 
and off-highway markets, much of its business is done on open purchase 
orders.  These purchase orders usually may be canceled on reasonable 
notice without cancellation charges.  Therefore, while incoming orders 
generally are indicative of anticipated future demand, the actual 
demand for the Company's products may change at any time.

The Company's products compete on a number of factors, including 
price, delivery, quality, warranty and service.  Cummins believes that 
its continued focus on cost, quality and delivery, its extensive 
technical investment, its full product line and customer-led service 
and support programs are key elements of its competitive position.

The Company's major markets typically experience modest seasonal 
declines in production during the third quarter of the year, which has 
an effect on the demand for Cummins' products during that quarter of 
each year.

Cummins warrants its engines, subject to proper use and maintenance, 
against defects in factory workmanship or materials for either a 
specified time period or mileage or hours of use.  Warranty periods 
vary by engine family and market segment and are subject to 
competitive pressures.

Cummins sells engines, parts and related products through 
distributorships worldwide.  The Company believes its distribution 
system is an important part of its marketing strategy and competitive 
position.  Most of its North American distributors are independently 
owned and operated.  The Company has agreements with each of these 
distributors, which typically are for a term of three years, subject 
to certain termination provisions.  Upon termination or expiration of 
the agreement, the Company is obligated to purchase various assets of 
the distributorship.  Through an arrangement with Citicorp Dealer 
Finance, a unit of Citicorp North America, the Company also guarantees 
certain financing obligations of some of these distributors.

There are approximately 5,700 locations in North America, primarily 
owned and operated by OEMs or their dealers, at which Cummins-trained 
service personnel and parts are available to maintain and repair 
Cummins engines.  The Company's parts distribution centers are located 
strategically throughout the world.

     Supply
     ~~~~~~

The Company machines many of the components used in its engines, 
including blocks, heads, rods, turbochargers, crankshafts and fuel 
systems.  Cummins has adequate sources of supply of raw materials and 
components required for its operations.

     International
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cummins sells its products to major international firms outside North 
America by exports directly from the United States and shipments from 
foreign facilities (operated through subsidiaries, affiliates, joint 
ventures or licensees) which manufacture and/or assemble Cummins' 
products.  The Company's international operations are subject to risks 
such as currency controls and fluctuations, import restrictions and 
changes in national governments and policies.

The Company has entered into license agreements that provide for the 
manufacture and sale of licensed engines and engine components for use 
in certain territories prescribed in the respective agreements.  In 
addition, licensees produce engines and engine components which are 
available to help meet demand for Cummins' products in the rest of the 
world.

The paragraph under Item 1, "Overview", on page 2 on international 
markets and operations is incorporated herein by reference.

     Employment
     ~~~~~~~~~~

At December 31, 1993, Cummins employed 23,600 persons worldwide, 
approximately 10,200 of whom are represented by various unions.  The 
Company has labor agreements covering employees in North America, 
South America and the United Kingdom.  In 1993, members of the Diesel 
Workers Union in Southern Indiana approved an 11-year contract.  
Production workers at Atlas, Inc., in Fostoria, Ohio, and office and 
technical workers in Southern Indiana also ratified 3-year contracts 
during 1993.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

     Product Environmental Compliance
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cummins' engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory 
requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards with respect 
to emissions and noise.  Cummins' products comply with emissions 
standards that the US Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and 
California Air Resources Board ("CARB") have established for emissions 
for on-highway diesel engines produced through 1994.  Cummins' ability 
to comply with these and future emissions standards is an essential 
element in maintaining its leadership position in the North American 
heavy-duty truck and other automotive markets, as well as in supplying 
other markets.  The Company will make significant capital and research 
expenditures to comply with these standards.  Failure to comply could 
result in adverse effects on future financial results.

Cummins has completed successfully the certification of its 1994 on-
highway products, which include both midrange and heavy-duty engines.  
All of these products underwent extensive laboratory and field testing 
prior to their release.

Emissions Averaging, Banking and Trading regulations were promulgated 
by the EPA in July 1990.  By selling 1991, 1992 and 1993 model year 
engines with emissions levels below applicable standards and by 
introducing several of the Company's 1994 configurations early, 
Cummins generated both nitric oxide and particulate matter credits.  
Certain of the Company's 1994 products which do not meet 1994 
emissions standards will be sold by using these emissions credits.

The next major change in emissions requirements for heavy-duty diesel 
engines occurs in 1998, when the nitric oxide standard is lowered from 
5.0 to 4.0 g/bhp-hr.  Design and development activity toward meeting 
this standard is well underway.  In 1996, the particulate matter 
standard for engines used in urban buses changes from 0.07 to 0.05 
g/bhp-hr.

Contained in the environmental regulations are several means for the 
EPA to ensure and verify compliance with emissions standards.  Two of 
the principal means are tests of new engines as they come off the 
assembly line, referred to as selective enforcement audits ("SEA"), 
and tests of field engines, commonly called in-use compliance tests.  
The SEA provisions have been used by the EPA to verify the compliance 
of heavy-duty engines for several years.  In 1993, three such audit 
tests were performed on Cummins engines, all of which passed.  The 
failure of an SEA could result in cessation of production of the 
noncompliant engines and the recall of engines produced prior to the 
audit.  In the product development process, Cummins anticipates SEA 
requirements when it sets emissions design targets.

No Cummins engines were chosen for in-use compliance testing in 1993.  
It is anticipated that the EPA will increase the in-use test rate in 
1994 and subsequent years, raising the probability that one or more of 
the Company's engines will be selected.  As with SEA testing, if an 
in-use test is failed, an engine recall may be necessary.  Cummins 
believes that its engines meet the EPA's in-use criteria.

In November, 1990, the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 were signed 
into law.  These amendments include special provisions for certain 
truck fleets in nonattainment metropolitan areas and instruct the EPA 
to consider regulating emissions from engines used in mobile off-
highway applications.  The EPA completed the mandated study of these 
sources and concluded that regulations are required.  Promulgation of 
the final rule is anticipated to occur in the second quarter of 1994.

Effective in 1995, CARB has promulgated new emissions standards for 
vehicles from 8,500 to 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.  Cummins' B 
Series engines compete in this category.  Design and development 
activity toward meeting these standards is well underway.

In January 1992, CARB promulgated regulations for mobile off-highway 
applications that use engines rated at or above 175 horsepower.  The 
effective date of the first tier of regulations is January 1, 1996.  
The Company expects that its products will comply with these 
regulations before the effective date.

More stringent emissions standards also are being adopted in 
international markets, including Europe and Japan.  Given the 
Company's experience in meeting US emissions standards, it believes 
that it is well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these 
markets as the need for emissions-control capability grows.

There are several Federal and state regulations which encourage and, 
in some cases, mandate the use of alternatively fueled heavy-duty 
engines.  The Company currently offers a natural gas fueled version of 
its L10 engine and has several development programs underway to expand 
its alternatively fueled product offering.

Vehicles and certain industrial equipment in which diesel engines are 
installed must meet Federal noise standards.  The Company believes 
that applications in which its engines are now installed meet these 
noise standards and that future installations also will be in 
compliance.

     Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With respect to environmental statutes and regulations applicable to 
the plants and operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, Cummins 
believes it is in compliance in all material aspects with applicable 
laws and regulations.  During the last five years, expenditures for 
environmental control facilities and environmental remediation 
projects at the Company's operating facilities in the United States 
have not been a major portion of annual capital outlays and are not 
expected to be material in 1994.

The Company or its subsidiaries have been identified as potentially 
responsible parties ("PRPs") pursuant to the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as 
amended or similar state laws, at a number of waste disposal sites.  
Under such laws, PRPs typically are jointly and severally liable for 
any investigation and remediation costs incurred with respect to such 
sites.  The Company's ultimate responsibility, therefore, could be 
greater than the share of waste contributed by the Company would 
otherwise indicate.

While the Company is unable at this time to determine the aggregate 
cost of remediation at these sites or the Company's ultimate liability 
with respect thereto, the Company has attempted to analyze its 
proportionate and actual liability by analyzing the amounts of 
hazardous materials contributed by the Company to such sites, the 
estimated costs, the number and identities of other PRPs and the level 
of insurance coverage.

The Company has entered into administrative agreements at certain of 
these sites to perform remedial actions.  Onan Corporation, a 
subsidiary of the Company, has entered into an administrative 
agreement to participate in remediation of the Waste Disposal 
Engineering landfill in Andover, Minnesota, along with 28 other PRPs.  
The cost of remediation at this site is estimated to range from $10 
million to $15 million, of which Onan expects to contribute 
approximately $600,000, which has been reserved fully.  The parties to 
the remediation agreement are in the process of seeking contributions 
from third parties, which may reduce Onan's proportionate share of the 
remediation costs.  Onan also has entered into an administrative 
agreement for the Oak Grove Sanitary Landfill in Oak Grove Township, 
Minnesota.   The estimated cost to remediate this site is 
approximately $6 million.  Onan has agreed to contribute $127,000 to 
cover its share of the cost of remediation.  Onan is in the process of 
seeking insurance reimbursement (which is being contested by the 
insurers) and contributions from other PRPs, which could reduce this 
amount.

At the Old City Landfill in Columbus, Indiana, the Company and two 
other PRPs have entered into a Consent Order with the Indiana 
Department of Environmental Management to implement the Record of 
Decision issued by EPA in 1992.  The cost to implement the Consent 
Order is estimated to be approximately $300,000 based upon current 
conditions at the site.  The Company's share of this expense will be 
approximately 50 percent.   At the Purity Oil Site located in Fresno, 
California, a subsidiary of the Company has been identified as a PRP 
and is one of several PRPs who have been issued an order by EPA to 
undertake remedial action at the site.  The Company's subsidiary has 
contributed $150,000 toward the first phase of remedial action at the 
site.  While the subsidiary's liability for future expenditures has 
not been determined, the Company estimates that its percentage 
contribution of hazardous waste to the site was less than 1 percent.  
It is unclear whether the Company's share of future remediation cost 
will be based upon its proportionate share of waste contributed to the 
site.  The costs of future remediation have not yet been determined 
but are likely to exceed the cost of the first phase of remedial 
action.  As a result, the Company's share of such future expenses is 
likely to exceed amounts spent to date at this site.  The Company 
believes that it has adequate reserves to cover its share of future 
expenses at each of these sites.

With respect to other sites at which the Company or its subsidiaries 
have been named as PRPs, the Company cannot estimate reasonably the 
future remediation costs.  At several sites, the remedial action to be 
implemented has not been determined for the site or the Company has 
been named only recently as a PRP.  In addition, the Company presently 
is contesting any liability at several of these sites.  Based upon the 
Company's prior experiences at similar sites, however, the aggregate 
future cost of all PRPs to remediate these sites is likely to be 
significant.  While the Company believes that it has good defenses at 
several of these sites, that its percentage contribution at other 
sites is likely to be de minimis and that other PRPs will bear most of 
the future remediation costs, the Company's ultimate responsibility 
will be based on many factors outside the Company's control and, 
therefore, could be material in the event that the Company becomes 
obligated to pay a significant portion of those expenses.  Based upon 
information presently available, the Company believes that such 
liability is unlikely and that its actual and proportionate costs of 
participating in the remediation of these sites will not be material.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~

Cummins' worldwide manufacturing facilities occupy approximately 13 
million square feet, including approximately 5 million square feet 
outside the United States.  Principal engine manufacturing facilities 
in the United States include the Company's plants in Southern Indiana 
and Jamestown, New York, as well as an engine plant in Rocky Mount, 
North Carolina, which is operated in partnership with J I Case.

Countries of manufacture outside of the United States include England, 
Scotland, Brazil, Mexico, France, Spain, Australia and Germany.  In 
addition, engines and engine components are manufactured by joint 
ventures or independent licensees at plants in China, India, Japan, 
Pakistan, South Korea and Turkey.

Cummins believes that all of its plants have been maintained 
adequately, are in good operating condition and are suitable for its 
current needs through productive utilization of the facilities.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The information appearing in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements is incorporated herein by reference.

On April 5, 1990, Raphael Warkel and Alan J. Stransky filed a 
complaint in the US District Court for the Southern District of 
Indiana against the Company, all of its then-current directors and one 
past director.  The complaint purported to be brought as a class 
action on behalf of persons who purchased the Company's common stock 
between May 1, 1989 and September 21, 1989.  The complaint alleged 
that the Company and the other defendants violated Section 10(b) and 
Section 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by failing to 
disclose material financial information concerning the Company in an 
effort to "artificially inflate" the market price of the Company's 
common stock.  The complaint sought compensatory damages of 
unspecified amount, costs and attorneys' fees.  All defendants 
answered denying the substantive allegations of the complaint.  The 
plaintiffs moved for class certification, which motion was opposed by 
the defendants.  On November 30, 1992, the court granted defendants' 
motion for judgment on the pleading and dismissed the complaint.  The 
court held that the complaint failed to state a claim for relief under 
the Federal securities laws.  The court gave the plaintiffs 30 days to 
file an amended complaint.  On December 29, 1992, plaintiffs filed an 
amended complaint against the same defendants.  The amended complaint, 
which alleges the Company and other defendants violated Section 10(b) 
and Section 20 of the Securities Exchange Act by failing to disclose 
material financial information concerning the Company in an effort to 
"artificially inflate" the market price of the Company's common stock, 
is also brought as a class action and seeks compensatory damages of 
unspecified amount, costs and attorneys' fees.  On March 3, 1993, 
defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint.  On September 13, 
1993, the court dismissed the claims of plaintiff Stransky with 
prejudice.  The court also dismissed the claims of plaintiff Warkel 
except for a claim based on an allegedly false and misleading press 
release issued by the Company in July 1989.  Warkel was given until 
December 13, 1993 to file an amended complaint, which time has passed 
and no amended complaint has been filed.   Plaintiff Stransky has 
moved the court for reconsideration of the order dismissing his 
claims, which motion remains pending.  Defendants believe the 
remaining allegations in the amended complaint are without merit and 
intend to defend the action vigorously.

The material in Item 1 "Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations" 
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

None.

                             PART II
                             ~~~~~~~

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange 
and the Pacific Stock Exchange under the symbol "CUM".  On October 12, 
1993, the Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one stock split of 
the common stock, which was effected by a stock dividend payable to 
holders of record on October 25, 1993.  The following table sets 
forth, for the calendar quarters shown, the range of high and low 
composite prices of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange 
and the cash dividends declared on the common stock.  The information 
in the table has been adjusted to give effect to the stock split.

                           High         Low          Dividends Declared
                         ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~
First quarter            $48 3/4      $37 3/8               $.025
Second quarter            49 5/16      38 1/2                .025
Third quarter             45           39                    .025
Fourth quarter            54 3/8       38 7/8                .125

~~~~
First quarter            $33          $26 5/8               $.025
Second quarter            38 3/8       28 3/8                .025
Third quarter             35 7/8       30 5/16               .025
Fourth quarter            40 7/16      29 11/16              .025




During the fourth quarter of 1993, the Board of Directors of the 
Company increased the common stock dividend from $.025 to $.125 per 
quarter.  The declaration and payment of future dividends by the Board 
of Directors of the Company will be dependent upon the Company's 
earnings and financial condition, economic and market conditions and 
other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors.

At December 31, 1993, the approximate number of holders of record of 
the Company's common stock was 4,400.

Certain of the Company's loan indentures and agreements contain 
provisions which permit the holders to require the Company to 
repurchase the obligations upon a change of control of the Company, as 
defined in the applicable debt instruments.

As more fully described in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, which information is incorporated herein by reference, the 
Company has a Shareholders' Rights Plan.

The Company's bylaws provide that Cummins is not subject to the 
provisions of the Indiana Control Share Act.  However, Cummins is 
governed by certain other laws of the State of Indiana applicable to 
transactions involving a potential change of control of the Company.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
         (Dollars in Millions, except per share amounts)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                         1993       1992       1991       1990       1989
                       ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
Net sales              $4,247.9   $3,749.2   $3,405.5   $3,461.8   $3,519.5
Earnings (loss) before
 extraordinary items &
 cumulative effect of
 accounting changes       182.6       67.1      (65.6)    (165.1)      (6.1)
Net earnings (loss)       177.1     (189.5)     (14.1)    (137.7)      (6.1)
Primary earnings (loss)
 per common share:
 Before extraordinary
  items & cumulative
  effect of accounting
  changes                  4.95       1.77      (2.48)    ( 7.23)      (.76)
 Net                       4.79     ( 6.01)     ( .75)    ( 6.13)      (.76)
Fully diluted earnings 
 (loss) per common share:
 Before extraordinary
  items & cumulative 
  effect of accounting
  changes                  4.77       1.77      (2.48)    ( 7.23)       (.76)
 Net                       4.63     ( 6.01)     ( .75)    ( 6.13)       (.76)
Cash dividends per
 common share               .20        .10        .35       1.10        1.10
Total assets            2,390.6    2,230.5    2,041.2    2,086.3     2,030.8
Long-term debt and
 redeemable preferred
 stock                    189.6      412.4      443.2      411.4       473.7

All pre-share data have been restated to give effect to the October 
1993 two-for-one stock split.

In December 1993, the Company sold 2.6 million shares of its common 
stock in a public offering and used a portion of the proceeds to 
redeem $77.2 in principal amount of the Company's outstanding 9-3/4 
percent sinking fund debentures.  This early extinguishment of debt 
resulted in an extraordinary charge of $5.5.

In 1992, the Company sold 4.6 million shares of its common stock in a 
public offering and used a portion of the proceeds to extinguish $71.1 
of debt of Consolidated Diesel Company, an unconsolidated, 50-percent 
owned partnership, $8.2 of the Company's 8-7/8 percent sinking fund 
debentures and $11.4 of a 15-percent note payable to an insurance 
company.  These early extinguishments of debt resulted in an 
extraordinary charge of $5.5.  In 1992, the Company's results also 
included a charge of $251.1 for the cumulative effect of changes in 
accounting as prescribed by SFAS Nos. 106, 109 and 112 related to 
accounting of retirees' health care and life insurance benefits, 
income taxes and postemployment benefits.

The Company's results for 1991 included a credit of $51.5 for the 
cumulative effect of changes in accounting to include in inventory 
certain production-related costs previously charged directly to 
expense and to adopt a modified units-of-production depreciation 
method for substantially all engine production equipment.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
AND FINANCIAL CONDITION (Dollars in Millions, unless otherwise stated)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

OVERVIEW
~~~~~~~~

Cummins recorded net sales of $4,248 in 1993, the highest level in the 
Company's history.  This was 13 percent higher than in 1992 and 25 
percent higher than in 1991.  The increase in sales during 1993 was 
primarily attributable to higher sales of midrange engines worldwide 
and the strong North American heavy-duty truck market.

The Company continued to achieve improvements in its financial results 
in 1993, generating net earnings of $177.1, or $4.79 per share, due to 
the increase in sales, continued cost-improvement measures and 
operating efficiencies, and the ability to reduce a portion of its tax 
valuation allowance.

Effective January 1, 1992, the Company adopted three new accounting 
rules, which resulted in a one-time, non-cash, after-tax charge of 
$251.1.  This resulted in a net loss of $189.5, or $6.01 per share, in 
1992.  In both 1993 and 1992, the Company recorded extraordinary 
charges of $5.5 related to early retirement of debt.  The Company 
reported a net loss of $14.1 in 1991, including a credit of $51.5 for 
the cumulative effect of changes in accounting for inventory and 
depreciation.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The percentage relationship between net sales and other elements of 
the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations for each of the 
last three years was:

Percent of Net Sales                         1993      1992      1991
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~~~~
Net sales                                    100.0     100.0     100.0
Cost of goods sold                            75.6      77.5      81.5
                                             ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~~~~
Gross profit                                  24.4      22.5      18.5
Selling & administrative expenses             13.6      14.2      13.9
Research & engineering expenses                4.9       4.8       4.3
Interest expense                                .9       1.1       1.2
Other expenses                                  .2        .4        .4
                                              ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~
Earnings (loss) before income taxes            4.8       2.0      (1.3)
Provision for income taxes                      .5        .2        .5
Minority interest                                -         -        .1
                                              ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~~
Earnings (loss) before extraordinary items
 & cumulative effect of accounting changes     4.3       1.8      (1.9)
Extraordinary items                           ( .1)     ( .1)        -
Cumulative effect of accounting changes          -      (6.7)      1.5
                                              ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~~~~
Net earnings (loss)                            4.2      (5.0)     ( .4)
                                              ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~~~~
     Sales by Market
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Company's sales for each of its key markets during the last three 
years were:
                               1993              1992              1991
                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                         Dollars  Percent  Dollars  Percent  Dollars  Percent
                         ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~

Heavy-duty truck          1,230      29     1,081     29        940     28
Midrange truck              482      11       221      6         69      2
Power generation            963      23       914     24        813     24
Bus & light commercial
 vehicles                   498      12       423     11        417     12
Industrial products         438      10       425     11        450     13
Government                  109       3       173      5        236      7
Marine                       68       1        64      2         61      2
Fleetguard, Holset and
 Cummins Electronics (a)    460      11       448     12        420     12
                          ~~~~~      ~~     ~~~~~     ~~      ~~~~~     ~~
Net sales                 4,248     100     3,749    100      3,406    100
                          ~~~~~     ~~~     ~~~~~    ~~~      ~~~~~    ~~~

(a) Included sales of McCord prior to the third quarter of 1993.

Sales to the heavy-duty truck market in 1993 were 14 percent higher 
than in 1992 and 31 percent higher than the 1991 level.  The increase 
in sales since 1991 has been due to increasing demand for engines in 
the North American heavy-duty truck market.  In 1993, the Company's 
heavy-duty engine shipments in this market increased approximately 30 
percent over 1992 and were more than double the 1991 level.  The 
Company continued to lead this market with a 35-percent market share 
in 1993.  The Company's market share was 37 percent in 1992 and 38 
percent in 1991.

Heavy-duty truck engine shipments in international markets in 1993 
were approximately 10 percent lower than in 1992 but 5 percent above 
the 1991 level.  While markets in the United Kingdom are showing signs 
of emerging from recessionary levels, no significant recovery is 
apparent in European markets.  The Company's operations in Brazil were 
moderately profitable due to cost reductions and operating 
efficiencies that resulted in their lowering the break-even point.  
Even though there have been signs that the Brazilian truck market is 
recovering, uncertainty continues to exist in this market due to 
inflationary and other economic pressures.  The heavy-duty truck 
market in Mexico also remains depressed due to the tightening of 
credit, which has limited the ability of fleets to purchase new 
trucks.

Sales to the midrange truck market have more than doubled since 1991.  
In 1993, the Company completed the first full year of a contract with 
Ford Motor Company to provide exclusive diesel power for Ford's 
medium-duty trucks.   While some customers made advance purchases of 
midrange engines at the end of 1993, the current level of demand 
indicates continued growth in this market.

Power generation sales of $963 in 1993 increased 5 percent over the 
1992 level and were 18 percent higher than in 1991.  During 1993, 
power generation sales continued to benefit from strong demand for 
industrial generator sets in international markets, particularly in 
China where sales were double the 1992 level.  The Company also 
benefited from an increase in demand for generator sets for 
recreational vehicles in 1993 over 1992.

In the bus and light commercial vehicle market, the Company's sales 
were approximately 18 percent higher than in both 1992 and 1991.  
Engine shipments for the bus market in North America were 
significantly higher than prior year's levels.  The Company's sales to 
this market also benefited in 1993 from continued strong demand for 
midrange engines for Chrysler's Dodge Ram pickup truck.

Sales to industrial markets in 1993 were essentially level with those 
of the two prior years, although sales of engine parts and components, 
primarily to China and Turkey, increased significantly.  Engine 
shipments to construction and agricultural markets in North America 
also showed modest gains in 1993; however, there was no improvement in 
shipments for logging or mining markets, which continue at low levels.

Government sales continue to be lower than prior years' levels due 
primarily to the reduction in US government expenditures.  Sales have 
declined from 1991 peak of 7 percent of the Company's net sales to 5 
percent of net sales in 1992 and 3 percent of net sales in 1993.  The 
Company believes this market may decline further due to reductions in 
US military expenditures.

Sales for the marine business continued to increase but represented 
less than 2 percent of the Company's net sales in the three years' 
reporting periods.

Engine shipments for all markets in 1993 were 263,000, compared to 
222,000 in 1992 and 200,600 in 1991.  Shipments by engine family for 
the comparative periods were:

                                  1993        1992        1991
                                ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~

Midrange engines                 167,900     139,800     129,700
Heavy-duty engines                86,500      73,900      62,800
High-horsepower engines            8,600       8,300       8,100
                                 ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~
Total engine shipments           263,000     222,000     200,600
                                 ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~

Sales of filters, turbochargers and electronic systems increased from 
the 1992 level and were approximately 10 percent higher than in 1991.  
These businesses have benefited from an increase in sales for both the 
midrange and heavy-duty engine markets in North America.  European 
markets for these products remained at depressed levels.  Prior to the 
third quarter of 1993, sales of McCord Heat Transfer Co., were 
reported in this business market.  Effective at the beginning of the 
third quarter of 1993, the Company transferred its 80-percent interest 
in McCord to Behr America Holding, Inc., for a 35-percent interest in 
Behr America Holding, Inc.  The Company's minority interest in Behr 
America Holding, Inc., has been reported as an unconsolidated company 
since the transfer.

     Gross Profit
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Company's gross profit percentage increased to 24.4 percent of net 
sales in 1993 from 22.5 percent in 1992 and 18.5 percent in 1991.

The Company continued to benefit from improved margins across all of 
its engine families during 1993.  The key factor contributing to the 
improved margin in 1993 was the increase in demand for the Company's 
products, which represented approximately 50 percent of the increase 
in gross profit.  Other factors included the effects of cost-
improvement measures implemented since 1991 to improve production 
systems and throughput time, engine and parts pricing actions 
subsequent to the first quarter of 1992, and lower costs associated 
with product coverage programs.  The cost of product coverage 
programs, which includes both warranty and extended coverage, improved 
to 2.1 percent of net sales in 1993, compared to 2.4 percent in 1992 
and 3.8 percent in 1991.  Improvements included reduced warranty rates 
for engines sold in 1993 and adjustments to reduce the product 
coverage liability for engines previously placed in service.

In 1993, members of the Diesel Workers Union in Southern Indiana 
approved an 11-year contract.  The contract provided for a team-based 
work system designed to increase flexibility, employee involvement and 
efficiency in exchange for improved pension and health care benefits 
for future retirees.  Based upon the composition of age and service of 
the labor force, the increased expense associated with prior service 
of these employees will be recognized during the early years of the 
contract.

In 1991, the Company's margin contribution was low due to a decline in 
sales of heavy-duty engines, as well as higher costs related to 
introduction of the 1991 product line, which incorporated electronic 
controls for the first time.

     Operating Expenses
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Selling and administrative expenses were $579.2 in 1993, compared to 
$532.5 in 1992 and $472.3 in 1991.  The increase in these expenditures 
in 1993 was primarily attributable to variable operating expenses to 
support the higher sales volumes.

Research and engineering expenses were $209.6 in 1993, compared to 
$179.5 in 1992 and $147.0 in 1991.  The increase in 1993 of 17 percent 
compared to 1992 and 43 percent compared to 1991 was due to continued 
expenditures for fuel systems development, electronic systems and 
future technology developments.

     Other Expenses
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Interest expense of $36.3 in 1993 was $4.7 lower than in 1992 and $6.2 
lower than in 1991 due to the Company's early retirement and 
redemption of debt obligations during 1993 and 1992 and an overall 
decline in interest rates.  In 1993, the decrease in other expense of 
$6.3 compared to 1992 and $5.9 compared to 1991 was due to a reduction 
in interest expense as a result of debt retirement at Consolidated 
Diesel Company, an unconsolidated 50-percent owned partnership, in the 
fourth quarter of 1992.  This was offset partially by lower income 
from unconsolidated companies.

     Provision for Income Taxes
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the 
Company reduced its valuation allowance for tax benefit carryforwards 
during 1993 and 1992.  The tax provision also included a one-time 
credit of $4.4 in 1993 as a result of the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1993.  In 1991, Cummins' effective tax rate 
varied from the US statutory rate because of operating losses for 
which no tax benefit was recorded and the recognition of foreign and 
state taxes.

     Extraordinary Items
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As disclosed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the 
Company extinguished certain indebtedness in 1993 and 1992 that 
resulted in an extraordinary charge of $5.5 in each year.

     Accounting Changes
     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As disclosed more fully in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements, in 1992, the Company changed its method of accounting for 
retirees' health care and life insurance benefits, postemployment 
benefits and income taxes, all of which were required by new 
accounting rules released by the Financial Accounting Standards Board.  
In 1991, the Company changed its method of accounting for inventory 
and depreciation.

FINANCIAL CONDITION AN CASH FLOW
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

During 1993, the Company's financial position improved significantly.  
Shareholders' investment increased from $501.1 at year-end 1992 to 
$821.1 at December 31, 1993.  The improvement in financial position 
was the result of the issuance of 2.6 million shares of common stock, 
which produced net proceeds of $124.5, the conversion by holders of 
$48.5 of convertible debt into 1.0 million shares of common stock and 
the generation of net earnings of $177.1 during the year.  In 
addition, the proceeds from the common stock offering and net cash 
flow from operations were applied to reduce the Company's indebtedness 
from $488.0 at December 31, 1992 to $235.6 at December 31, 1993, a 52-
percent decrease.  The combination of the significantly strengthened 
equity position and reduced debt level lowered the Company's debt-to-
capital ratio from 49.3 percent at December 31, 1992 to 22.3 percent 
at December 31, 1993.

At December 31, 1993, "Other liabilities" in the Consolidated 
Statement of Financial Position increased $86.8 compared to December 
31, 1992.  This increase reflects the minimum liability related to 
improved pension benefits that were granted in 1993 for prior service 
of employees covered by collectively bargained pension plans.  An 
intangible asset of $68.1 was recorded in "Intangibles, deferred taxes 
and deferred charges" related to this liability.

Key elements of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows were:


                                    1993      1992      1991
                                   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~

Net cash provided by (used for):
 Operating activities              $285.6    $197.7    $106.7
 Investing activities              (148.8)   (296.5)   (136.3)
 Financing activities              (113.5)    104.9       2.2
Effect of exchange rate 
 changes on cash                   (   .2)   (  3.4)   (  1.1)
                                   ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~
Net change in cash and cash
 equivalents                       $ 23.1    $  2.7    $ 28.5)
                                   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~

Net cash flow from operating and investing activities totaled $136.8 
in 1993, compared to a net cash outflow of $98.8 in 1992 and $29.6 in 
1991.  The cash outflow in 1992 included $65.1 to acquire the 
remaining 36-percent interest in Onan Corporation and a capital 
contribution of $71.1 to Consolidated Diesel Company to retire 
indebtedness.  Capital expenditures during 1993 increased to $174.2 
compared to $139.3 in 1992 and $123.9 in 1991.  The increase in 1993 
was related to investments for new product introductions and fuel 
systems.  The Company expects that capital expenditures will increase 
in 1994 to fund continued investments in these areas.  The Company 
also expects to make investments in 1994 in joint ventures announced 
during 1993, including the joint venture with TELCO to produce 
midrange engines in India for TELCO vehicles and with Komatsu to 
produce midrange engines in Japan and high-horsepower engines in the 
United States.

During the fourth quarter of 1993, the Company split its common stock 
on a two-for-one basis through the declaration of a stock dividend.  
Concurrently, the common stock dividend was increased from 2.5 cents 
per share per quarter, on a post-split basis, to 12.5 cents per share.

Cash at year-end 1993 was $77.3, an increase of $23.1 above the 1992 
year-end level.  In addition, the Company had no borrowings 
outstanding on its $300 revolving credit agreement at December 31, 
1993.  In 1993, the term of this credit facility was extended to 1997.

On January 24, 1994, the Company announced that its outstanding 
Convertible Exchangeable Preference Stock, which had a face value of 
$112.2 at December 31, 1993, would be redeemed on February 23, 1994 at 
a price of $51.05 per depositary share, plus accrued dividends.  
Holders of the stock elected to convert their shares into 2.9 million 
shares of common stock.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

See index to Financial Statements and Schedules on page 25.


ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

None.

                              PART III
                              ~~~~~~~~

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The information appearing under the caption "Election of Directors" of 
the Company's definitive Proxy Statement, dated March 4, 1994, for the 
Annual Meeting of the Shareholders to be held on April 5, 1994 
(hereinafter the "Proxy Statement") is incorporated by reference in 
partial answer to this item.

The executive officers of the Company at December 31, 1993 are set 
forth below.  The Chairman of the Board and President are elected 
annually by the Board of Directors at the Board's first meeting 
following the Annual Meeting of the Shareholders.  Other officers hold 
office for such period as the Board of Directors or Chairman of the 
Board may prescribe.

                          Present Position & Business Experience During
     Name         Age     Last 5 Years
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

M. E. Chesnut     47      Vice President - Quality & Organizational
                          Effectiveness (1992 to present), Vice President-
                          Human Resources & Organizational Effectiveness
                          (1989-1992)

C. R. Cordaro     44      Group Vice President - Marketing (1990 to
                          present), Vice President - Automotive Marketing
                          (1988 to 1990)

J. K. Edwards     49      Vice President - International (1989 to present)

R. L. Fealy       42      Vice President - Treasurer (1988 to present)

P. B. Hamilton    47      Vice President & Chief Financial Officer
                          (1988 to present)

J. A. Henderson   59      President & Chief Operating Officer
                          (1977 to present)

M. D. Jones       47      Vice President - Aftermarket Group
                          (1989 to present)

F. J. Loughrey    44      Group Vice President - Worldwide Operations
                          (1990 to present), Vice President - Heavy-Duty
                          Engines (1988 to 1990)

J. McLachlan      61      Vice President - Corporate Controller (1991
                          to present), Vice President - Engine Business
                          Controller (1989-1991)

G. D. Nelson      53      Vice President - Alternate Fueled Products
                          (1993 to present), Vice President - Research &
                          Development & Chief Technical Officer (1984
                          to 1993)

H. B. Schacht     59      Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
                          Executive Officer (1977 to present)

T. M. Solso       47      Executive Vice President - Operations (1992 to
                          present), Vice President & General Manager 
                          Engine Business (1988 to 1992)

R. B. Stoner-Jr.  47      Vice President - Cummins Power Generation Group
                          and President - Onan Corporation (1992 to
                          present), Managing Director - Holset (1986-1992)

S. L. Zeller      37      Vice President - Law & External Affairs & 
                          Corporate Secretary (1992 to present), Vice
                          President - General Counsel & Secretary (1990
                          to 1992), Vice President - General Counsel
                          (1989 to 1990)

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The information appearing under the following captions in the 
Company's Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference:  "The 
Board of Directors and Its Committees", "Executive Compensation --
Compensation Tables and Other Information" (including the tables and 
information contained at pages 16 to 18 of the Proxy Statement), 
"Executive Compensation -- Change of Control Arrangements" and 
"Executive Compensation -- Compensation Committee Interlocks and 
Insider Participation".  Except as otherwise specifically incorporated 
by reference, the Proxy Statement is not to be deemed filed as part of 
this report.

The Company has adopted various benefit and compensation plans 
covering officers and other key employees under which certain benefits 
become payable upon a change of control of the Company.  Cummins also 
has adopted an employee retention program covering approximately 350 
employees of the Company and its subsidiaries, which provides for the 
payment of severance benefits in the event of termination of 
employment following a change of control of Cummins.  The Company and 
its subsidiaries also have severance programs for other exempt 
employees of the Company whose employment is terminated following a 
change of control of the Company.  Certain of the pension plans 
covering employees of the Company provide, upon a change of control of 
Cummins, that excess plan assets become dedicated solely to fund 
benefits for plan participants.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A discussion of the security ownership of certain beneficial owners 
and management appearing under the captions "Principal Security 
Ownership", "Election of Directors" and "Executive Compensation --
Security Ownership of Management" in the Proxy Statement is 
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The information appearing under the captions "The Board of Directors 
and Its Committees", "Executive Compensation - Compensation Committee 
Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Other Transactions and 
Agreements with Directors, Officers and Certain Shareholders" in the 
Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

Reference is made to the information on related parties appearing in 
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                PART IV
                                ~~~~~~~

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Documents filed as a part of this report:

     1.  See Index to Financial Statements and Schedules on page 25
         for a list of the financial statements and schedules filed
         as a part of this report.

     2.  See Exhibit Index on page 59 for a list of the exhibits filed
         or incorporated herein as a part of this report.

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1993.

(page



            INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES
            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



                                                               Page
                                                               ~~~~

Management's Responsibility for Financial Statements            26
Report of the Independent Public Accountants                    27
Consolidated Statement of Operations                            28
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position                    29
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows                            31
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment              33
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                      35
Quarterly Financial Data                                        51
Property, Plant and Equipment                                   52
Accumulated Depreciation of Property, Plant & Equipment         53
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                               54
Short-term Borrowings                                           55
Supplementary Income Statement Information                      56



(page)



         MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Management is responsible for the preparation of the Company's 
consolidated financial statements and all related information 
appearing in this Form 10-K.  The statements and notes have been 
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles 
and include some amounts which are estimates based upon currently 
available information and management's judgment of current conditions 
and circumstances.  The Company engaged Arthur Andersen & Company, 
independent public accountants, to examine the consolidated financial 
statements.  Their report appears on page 27.

To provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded against 
loss from unauthorized use or disposition and that accounting records 
are reliable for preparing financial statements, management maintains 
a system of accounting and controls, including an internal audit 
program.  The system of accounting and controls is improved and 
modified in response to changes in business conditions and operations 
and to recommendations made by the independent public accountants and 
the internal auditors.

The Board of Directors has an Audit Committee whose members are not 
employees of the Company.  The committee met four times in 1993 with 
management, internal auditors and representatives of the Company's 
independent public accountants to review the Company's program of 
internal controls, audit plans and results and the recommendations of 
the internal and external auditors and management's responses to those 
recommendations.

(page)


             REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Cummins Engine Company, 
Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of financial 
position of Cummins Engine Company, Inc., (an Indiana corporation) and 
subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992 and the related 
consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders' 
investment for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 1993.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the 
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements 
are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a 
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the 
financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting 
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well 
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We 
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present 
fairly in all material respects, the financial position of Cummins 
Engine Company, Inc., and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 
1992 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each 
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1993 in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles.

As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, effective January 
1, 1992, the Company changed its method of accounting for the cost of 
retirees' health care and life insurance benefits, postemployment 
benefits and income taxes.  Also, as disclosed in Note 1, effective 
January 1, 1991, the Company changed its method of accounting for 
inventory and depreciation.

Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the 
consolidated statements taken as a whole.  The schedules listed under 
Item 14 are the responsibility of the Company's management and are 
presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission's rules and are not part of the basic consolidated 
financial statements.  These schedules have been subjected to the 
auditing procedures applied to the audit of the basic consolidated 
financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly state in all material 
respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a 
whole.

                                                Arthur Andersen & Co.
Chicago, Illinois,
January 26, 1994.
(page)


              CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
              (Dollars in Millions, except per share amounts)
              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


                                                                           
                                           1993        1992        1991
                                         ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~

NET SALES                                $4,247.9    $3,749.2    $3,405.5
Cost of goods sold                        3,211.0     2,906.7     2,776.7
                                         ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
Gross profit                              1,036.9       842.5       628.8
Selling & administrative expenses           579.2       532.5       472.3
Research & engineering expenses             209.6       179.5       147.0
Interest expense                             36.3        41.0        42.5
Other expenses                                6.8        13.1        12.7
                                         ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
Earnings (loss) before income taxes         205.0        76.4       (45.7)
Provision for income taxes                   22.3         8.9        16.9
Minority interest                              .1          .4         3.0
                                         ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~
EARNINGS (LOSS) BEFORE EXTRAORDINARY 
 ITEMS AND CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF
 ACCOUNTING CHANGES                         182.6        67.1       (65.6)
Extraordinary items (Note 7)                 (5.5)       (5.5)          -
Cumulative effect of accounting
 changes (Note 1)                               -      (251.1)       51.5
                                         ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~
NET EARNINGS (LOSS)                         177.1      (189.5)      (14.1)
Preference stock dividends                    8.0         8.0         8.0
                                         ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~
EARNINGS (LOSS) AVAILABLE FOR
 COMMON SHARES                           $  169.1    $ (197.5)   $  (22.1)
                                         ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~
                                         ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~
Primary earnings (loss) per common
 share:
  Before extraordinary items and
   cumulative effect of accounting 
   changes                               $   4.95    $   1.77    $  (2.48)
  Net                                        4.79       (6.01)       (.75)

Fully diluted earnings (loss) per
 common share:
  Before extraordinary items and
   cumulative effect of accounting
   changes                               $   4.77    $   1.77    $  (2.48)
Net                                          4.63       (6.01)      ( .75)


The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
(page)


              CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
                   (Millions, except per share amounts)
              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                                                       December 31,
                                                     1993        1992  
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
 Cash and cash equivalents                         $   77.3    $   54.2
 Receivables less allowances of $9.5 & $11.8          426.3       372.7
 Inventories                                          440.2       440.4
 Other current assets                                 127.9       128.3
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
                                                    1,071.7       995.6
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
INVESTMENTS AND OTHER ASSETS:
 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated
  companies                                           101.9       146.2
 Other assets                                          88.8        71.7
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
                                                      190.7       217.9
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT:                     ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
 Land and buildings                                   357.9       351.9
 Machinery, equipment and fixtures                  1,689.9     1,680.7
 Construction in progress                             132.7        89.7
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
                                                    2,180.5     2,122.3
 Less accumulated depreciation                      1,222.3     1,193.6
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
                                                      958.2       928.7
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
INTANGIBLES, DEFERRED TAXES & DEFERRED CHARGES        170.0        88.3
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
TOTAL ASSETS                                       $2,390.6    $2,230.5
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
 Loans payable                                     $   13.4    $   50.5
 Current maturities of long-term debt                  32.6        25.1
 Accounts payable                                     267.5       255.3
 Accrued salaries and wages                            78.1        71.4
 Accrued product coverage & marketing expenses        123.5       139.9
 Income taxes payable                                  21.2        11.5
 Other accrued expenses                               164.0       170.5
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
                                                      700.3       724.2
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
LONG-TERM DEBT                                        189.6       412.4
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
OTHER LIABILITIES                                     679.6       592.8
                                                   ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT:
 Convertible preference stock, no par value,
  .2 shares outstanding                               112.2       114.9
 Common stock, $2.50 par value, 40.6 & 36.5 
  shares issued                                       101.5        91.3
 Additional contributed capital                       822.8       654.4
 Retained earnings (deficit)                            4.1      (146.1)
 Common stock in treasury, at cost, 2.1 shares       ( 67.3)     ( 67.3)
 Unearned ESOP compensation                          ( 59.3)     ( 63.5)
 Cumulative translation adjustments                  ( 92.9)     ( 82.6)
                                                   ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~
                                                      821.1       501.1
                                                   ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~~

TOTAL LIABILITIES & SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT       $2,390.6    $2,230.5
                                                   ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~


The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
(page)


              CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                        (Dollars in Millions)
              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                                                1993       1992       1991
                                              ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
 Net earnings (loss)                          $ 177.1    $(189.5)   $( 14.1)
                                              ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
 Adjustments to reconcile net earnings (loss) 
  to net cash from operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization                 125.1      122.5      127.2
  Extraordinary items & cumulative effect 
   of accounting changes                          5.5      256.6     ( 51.5)
  Accounts receivable                          ( 59.4)    ( 30.9)       5.3
  Inventories                                      .9     ( 18.8)      31.1
  Accounts payable and accrued expenses           6.6       14.1     ( 10.8)
  Other                                          29.8       43.7       19.5
                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
  Total adjustments                             108.5      387.2      120.8
                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
 Net cash provided by operating activities      285.6      197.7      106.7
                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
 Property, plant and equipment:
  Additions                                    (174.2)    (139.3)    (123.9)
  Disposals                                      12.0       22.9        2.2
  Acquisition of new business activities          3.4     ( 66.8)       -
  Net cash proceeds from the disposition 
   of certain business activities                   -        1.9       19.0
 Investments in and advances to affiliates
  and unconsolidated companies                   10.0     (115.2)    ( 33.6)
                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
 Net cash used for investing activities        (148.8)    (296.5)    (136.3)
                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 Proceeds from borrowings                        56.5      112.3       48.4
 Payments on borrowings                        (247.5)    (128.3)    ( 26.2)
 Net borrowings under credit agreements        ( 25.5)      16.2     (   .6)
 Net proceeds from common stock issuances       124.5      126.1          -
 Payments of dividends                         ( 15.0)    ( 11.3)    ( 18.4)
 Other                                         (  6.5)    ( 10.1)    (  1.0)
                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
 Net cash (used for) provided by financing
  activities                                   (113.5)     104.9        2.2
                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH        (   .2)    (  3.4)    (  1.1)
                                              ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS          23.1        2.7     ( 28.5)
Cash & cash equivalents at beginning of year     54.2       51.5       80.0
                                              ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR        $  77.3    $  54.2    $  51.5
                                              ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
Cash payments during the year for:
 Interest                                     $  39.5    $  41.5    $  40.6
 Income taxes                                    18.1       20.6       26.8

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
(page)


             CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT
                  (Millions, except per share amounts)
           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                 

                                                1993       1992       1991
                                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
CONVERTIBLE PREFERENCE STOCK, no par value,
 1.0 shares authorized (.2 shares):
 Beginning balance                             $114.9     $114.9     $114.9
 Converted to common stock                     (  2.7)         -          -
                                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
 Ending balance                                 112.2      114.9      114.9
                                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
COMMON STOCK, $2.50 par value, 50.0 shares
 authorized:
 Beginning balance (36.5, 31.8 & 31.8 shares)    91.3       79.4       79.4
 Retired (.2, .2 and .1 shares)                (   .6)    (   .6)     (  .1)
 Issued in public offerings (2.6 & 4.6 shares)    6.6       11.5          -
 Conversion of LYONs and preference stock
  (1.1 shares)                                    2.8          -          -
 Other (.6, .3 and .1 shares)                     1.4        1.0         .1
                                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
 Ending balance (40.6, 36.5 & 31.8 shares)      101.5       91.3       79.4
                                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTED CAPITAL:
 Beginning balance                              654.4      537.5      533.0
 Retired                                       (  9.9)    (  7.3)     ( 1.1)
 Issued in public offerings                     117.9      114.6          -
 Conversion of LYONs & preference stock          48.0          -          -
 Other                                           12.4        9.6        5.6
                                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
 Ending balance                                 822.8      654.4      537.5
                                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
RETAINED EARNINGS (DEFICIT):
 Beginning balance                             (146.1)      48.0       82.0
 Net earnings (loss) for the year               177.1     (189.5)     (14.1)
 Cash dividends declared:
  Convertible preference stock                 (  8.0)    (  8.0)     ( 8.0)
  Common stock                                 (  7.0)    (  3.3)     (10.4)
 Additional minimum liability for pensions     ( 11.9)       6.7      ( 1.5)
                                               ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
 Ending balance                                   4.1     (146.1)      48.0
                                               ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
COMMON STOCK IN TREASURY, at cost (2.1	
 (shares)                                      ( 67.3)    ( 67.3)     (67.3)
                                               ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
UNEARNED ESOP COMPENSATION:
 Beginning balance                             ( 63.5)    ( 67.9)     (72.2)
 Shares allocated to participants                 4.2        4.4        4.3
                                               ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
 Ending balance                                ( 59.3)    ( 63.5)     (67.9)
                                               ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~

CUMULATIVE TRANSLATION ADJUSTMENTS:
 Beginning balance                             ( 82.6)    ( 20.8)     (  .5)
 Adjustments                                   ( 10.3)    ( 61.8)     (20.3)
                                               ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
 Ending balance                                ( 92.9)    ( 82.6)     (20.8)
                                               ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
SHAREHOLDERS' INVESTMENT                       $821.1     $501.1     $623.8
                                               ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~

The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement.
(page)


             CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
             (Dollars in Millions, unless otherwise stated)
             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


NOTE 1.  SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

Principles of Consolidation:  The consolidated financial statements 
include the accounts of Cummins Engine Company, Inc., and its 
majority-owned subsidiaries.  Affiliated companies in which Cummins 
does not have a controlling interest or in which control is expected 
to be temporary are accounted for using the equity method.

Stock Split:  On October 12, 1993, the Company announced a two-for-one 
common stock split that was distributed on November 11, 1993 to 
shareholders of record on October 25, 1993.  All references to the 
number of shares issued or outstanding and to per-share information 
have been adjusted to reflect the stock split on a retroactive basis.

Foreign Currency:  The Company uses the local currency as the 
functional currency for its significant manufacturing operations 
outside the United States, except those in Brazil and Mexico for which 
it uses the US dollar.  At operations which use the local currency as 
the functional currency, results are translated into US dollars using 
average exchange rates for the year, while assets and liabilities are 
translated into US dollars using year-end exchange rates.  The 
resulting translation adjustments are recorded in a separate component 
of shareholders' investment.  Gains and losses from foreign currency 
transactions are included in net earnings.  The financial statements 
of operations in Brazil and Mexico are translated into US dollars 
using both current and historical exchange rates, with the resulting 
translation adjustments reflected in net earnings.

The Company enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge the 
effects of fluctuation currency rates on certain assets and 
liabilities, such as accounts receivable and payable, that are 
denominated in foreign currencies.  The contracts typically provide 
for the exchange of different currencies at specified future dates and 
rates.  The gain or loss due to the difference between the forward 
exchange rates of the contracts and current rates offsets in whole or 
in part the loss or gain on the assets or liabilities being hedged.

Cash Equivalents:  Cash equivalents are investments that are readily 
convertible to known amounts of cash and have original maturities of 
three months or less.

Inventories:  The company accounts for substantially all of its US 
heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine and engine parts inventories on 
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method.  All other inventories are 
valued at the lower of first-in, first-out (FIFO) cost or net 
realizable value.

LIFO inventories were $144.9 at December 31, 1993 and $147.8 at 
December 31, 1992.  The current cost of these inventories was $49.8 
higher than LIFO cost at December 31, 1993 and $52.9 higher than LIFO 
cost at December 31, 1992.  During 1993, 1992 and 1991, certain of the 
Company's LIFO inventory investment was reduced, resulting in the 
liquidation of low-cost LIFO inventory layers.  The effect of the LIFO 
liquidation was to reduce cost of goods sold by $2.0 in 1993, $1.4 in 
1992 and $6.3 in 1991.

Inventory values include the combined costs of purchased materials, 
labor and manufacturing overhead.  Effective January 1, 1991, the 
Company recognized a credit of $25.0 as a result of a change in 
accounting to include in inventory certain production-related costs 
previously charged directly to expense.  The Company's operations are 
integrated vertically, which makes it impracticable to distinguish 
between raw material and work-in-process on a consolidated basis.  At 
December 31, 1993 and 1992, the FIFO value of finished goods, which 
represented products available for shipment to the Company's 
customers, approximated $273 and $251, respectively.

Futures Contracts and Interest Rate Swaps:  The Company has entered 
into forward exchange and commodity futures contracts which are 
accounted for as hedges.  The gains or losses on forward exchange 
contracts are reflected in earnings concurrently with the hedged items 
while gains or losses on commodity futures contracts are charged or 
credited to earnings when the contracts are settled.

The Company also has entered into interest rate swap agreements that 
have the effect of fixing interest rates on certain of the Company's 
floating rate indebtedness.  The net difference to be paid or received 
on the interest rate swaps is charged or credited to interest expense 
as interest rates change.

Property, Plant and Equipment:  Property, plant and equipment are 
recorded at cost.  Effective January 1, 1991, the Company changed its 
accounting for depreciation of substantially all engine production 
equipment to a modified units-of-production method, which is based 
upon units produced subject to a minimum level.  The cumulative effect 
of this change in accounting was a credit of $26.5 in 1991.  
Depreciation of all other equipment is computed using the straight-
line method for financial reporting purposes.  The estimated service 
lives to compute depreciation range from 20 to 40 years for buildings 
and 3 to 20 years for machinery, equipment and fixtures.  Where 
appropriate, the Company uses accelerated depreciation methods for tax 
purposes.  Maintenance and repair costs are charged to earnings as 
incurred.

Technical Investment:  Expenditures associated with research and 
development of new products and major improvements to existing 
products, as well as engineering expenditures during early production 
and ongoing efforts to improve existing products, are charged to 
earnings as incurred, net of contract reimbursements:


                                         1993       1992       1991
                                        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
 
Research & engineering expenses         $209.6     $179.5     $147.0
Reimbursements                            28.8       36.9       28.6
Other technical spending                  38.1       31.0       33.1
                                        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Technical investment expenditures       $276.5     $247.4     $208.7
                                        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~

Included above in research and engineering expenses are research and 
development costs approximating $158 in 1993, $129 in 1992 and $99 in 
1991.

Product Coverage Programs:  Estimated costs of warranty and extended 
coverage are charged to earnings at the time the Company sells its 
products.

Retirement and Postemployment Benefits:  The Company charges the cost 
of all retirement benefits to earnings during employees' active 
service as a form of deferred compensation.  The change in accounting 
from a cash basis to this policy for health care and life insurance, 
effective January 1, 1992, resulted in an after-tax charge of $228.6 
for prior service.  This change resulted in an incremental annual 
expense of $11.4, net of taxes, during 1992.

The cost of postemployment benefits, such as long-term disability, is 
charged to earnings at the time employees leave active service.  The 
cumulative effect of the change to this accounting from a cash basis, 
effective January 1, 1992, was $22.5, net of taxes.  This change 
resulted in an incremental expense of $3.2, net of taxes, in 1992.

Income Tax Accounting:  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are 
recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between 
the financial statement basis and the tax basis of assets and 
liabilities.  Future tax benefits of tax loss and tax credit 
carryforwards also are recognized as deferred tax assets.  Deferred 
tax assets are offset by a valuation allowance to the extent the 
Company concludes there is uncertainty as to their ultimate 
realization.

Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share:  Primary earnings per share of 
common stock are computed by subtracting preference stock dividend 
requirements from net earnings (loss) and dividing that amount by the 
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year.  
The weighted average number of shares, which includes the exercise of 
certain stock options granted to employees, was 35.3 million in 1993, 
32.9 million in 1992 and 29.7 million in 1991.  Fully diluted earnings 
per share are computed by dividing net earnings (loss) by the weighted 
average number of shares assuming the exercise of stock options and 
the conversion of debt and preference stock to common stock.

NOTE 2.  SUBSEQUENT EVENT:  On January 24, 1994, the Company announced 
that its outstanding Convertible Exchangeable Preference Stock, which 
had a face value of $112.2 at December 31, 1993, would be redeemed on 
February 23, 1994 at a price of $51.05 per depositary share, plus 
accrued dividends.  Holders of the stock elected to convert their 
shares into 2.9 million shares of common stock.  Had the stock 
conversion and cash redemption occurred on January 1, 1993, pro forma 
net earnings per share would have approximated $4.63 in 1993.

NOTE 3.  ACQUISITION:  On June 15, 1992, the Company acquired for $64 
in cash the remaining 36 percent of Onan Corporation from Hawker 
Siddeley Overseas Investments Limited, a UK company.  Cummins had 
owned the majority interest in Onan since 1986.  The acquisition was 
accounted for as a purchase.  Had the acquisition occurred as of 
January 1, 1991, the pro forma net loss per share for 1992 would have 
approximated $6.00 and the pro forma net loss per share for 1991 would 
have approximated 63 cents.  Such pro forma per share information is 
not necessarily indicative of what the results of operations would 
have been had the acquisition actually occurred earlier, nor is it 
indicative of what may occur in the future.

NOTE 4.  RELATED PARTIES:  In 1990, Ford Motor Company and Tenneco 
Inc., each purchased from Cummins 3.2 million shares of the Company's 
common stock.  The shares were purchased pursuant to separate 
investment agreements between Cummins and the investors.  Both Ford 
and Tenneco have agreed to certain voting, standstill and other 
provisions and each has the right to designate a representative to the 
Company's Board of Directors.  The Company also entered into an option 
agreement with Ford pursuant to which Ford has the right, exercisable 
until 1996, to purchase up to 2.96 million additional shares of the 
Company's common stock at a price equal to 120 percent of the market 
price of the common stock for the 30 trading days prior to the 
exercise of the option but for no less than $31.25 per share.  In 
December 1993, Tenneco transferred the shares of Cummins common stock 
it held to a trust that funds pension plans sponsored by Tenneco.  The 
shares will continue to be subject to the terms of the investment 
agreement, and the trust has agreed to assume all of Tenneco's rights 
and obligations under such agreement.

Cummins' sales of diesel engines and parts and related products to 
Ford approximated $343 in 1993, $182 in 1992 and $56 in 1991.  In 
addition, Cummins' purchases of gasoline engines and parts from Ford 
approximated $4 in 1993 and $3 in both 1992 and 1991.  At December 31, 
1993 and 1992, the Company had accounts receivable outstanding of 
approximately $27 and $20, respectively, with Ford.  Cummins and J I 
Case, a subsidiary of Tenneco Inc., are partners in the manufacture of 
midrange diesel engines at Consolidated Diesel Company.  In 1993, 1992 
and 1991, Cummins' sales of heavy-duty midrange diesel engines, 
components, service parts and related products and services to J I 
Case and other subsidiaries of Tenneco approximated $43, $52 and $61, 
respectively.  Cummins' purchases from J I Case approximated $1 in 
both 1993 and 1992 and $7 in 1991.  At both December 31, 1993 and 
1992, the Company had accounts receivable outstanding of $6 with 
subsidiaries of Tenneco.

NOTE 5.  SALE OF RECEIVABLES:  The Company has an agreement to sell, 
without recourse, up to $110.0 of eligible trade receivables.  The 
amount of receivables outstanding was $108.0 under this agreement at 
December 31, 1993 and $100.0 at December 31, 1992.  As collections 
reduce previously sold receivables, new receivables customarily are 
sold up to the $110.0 level.

NOTE 6.  INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED COMPANIES:
                                                                December 31,
                                  Location       Ownership     1993     1992
                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~

Consolidated Diesel Company     United States       50%       $ 50.9   $100.1
Kirloskar Cummins Limited       India               50%         16.9     17.3
Behr America Holding, Inc.      United States       35%         12.1        -
Other investments               Various           Various       22.0     28.8
                                                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~
                                                              $101.9   $146.2
                                                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~

Included above in other investments at December 31, 1993 and 1992 were $18.5
and $21.8, respectively, related to temporarily owned distributorships.
Cummins' sales to temporarily owned distributorships approximated $57
in 1993, $49 in 1992 and $143 in 1991.

Summary financial information for Consolidated Diesel Company, Kirloskar
Cummins Limited, Behr America Holding, Inc., and other 50-percent or less
owned companies follows:

Earnings Statement Data                    1993       1992       1991
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~

Net sales                                 $746.4     $695.9     $733.1
Earnings before extraordinary item           3.4       14.4       12.4
Earnings                                     3.4        6.4       12.4
Cummins' share of earnings                    .4        3.4        6.4

                                                        December 31,
Balance Sheet Data                                    1993       1992
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Current assets                                       $151.4     $178.1
Noncurrent assets                                     207.0      220.6
Current liabilities                                  (127.0)    (111.2)
Noncurrent liabilities                               ( 38.2)    ( 41.9)
                                                     ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
Net assets                                           $193.2     $245.6
                                                     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Cummins' share of net assets                         $ 82.7     $123.4
                                                     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~


NOTE 7.  LONG-TERM DEBT:
                                                            December 31,
                                                          1993       1992
                                                         ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Senior debt:
 9.74%-10.65% medium-term notes, due 1993 to 1998       $126.2      $136.2
 9-3/4% sinking fund debentures, due 1998 to 2016            -        77.2
 8.76% guaranteed notes of ESOP Trust, due 1998           70.7        71.8
 9.45% note payable to insurance company, due         
  through 1999                                               -        18.6
 3.875%-10.4% notes payable to banks due through
  1998                                                     8.0        63.4
 Mortgage, capitalized leases and other notes,    
  due through 2005                                        17.3        25.1
Subordinated debt:
 LYONs                                                       -        45.2
                                                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~
Total indebtedness                                       222.2       437.5
Less current maturities                                   32.6        25.1
                                                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~
Long-term debt                                          $189.6      $412.4
                                                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~

Aggregate maturities of long-term debt for the five years subsequent to 
December 31, 1993 are $32.6, $36.3, $41.5, $23.7 and $16.7.

In December 1993, the Company sold 2.6 million shares of its common 
stock in a public offering for $49 per share.  A portion of the 
proceeds was used to redeem $77.2 in principal amount of the Company's 
outstanding 9-3/4 percent sinking fund debentures.  This early 
extinguishment of debt resulted in an extraordinary charge of $5.5.  
The Company also called for redemption of all the outstanding LYONs.  
Holders submitted 112,808 LYONs with an accreted value of $48.5 for 
conversion into 1.0 million shares of common stock, and the remaining 
were redeemed for $.2.  Had the stock issuance, debt repayments and 
conversion of LYONs occurred as of January 1, 1993, pro forma net 
earnings per share would have approximated $4.65 in 1993.

In April 1992, the Company sold 4.6 million shares of its common stock 
in a public offering for $28.50 per share.  A portion of the net 
proceeds was used at the time of the issuance to repay borrowings 
under the Company's revolving credit agreement.  During the fourth 
quarter of 1992, the Company extinguished $71.1 of debt of 
Consolidated Diesel Company, an unconsolidated, 50-percent owned 
partnership, $8.2 of the Company's 8-7/8 percent sinking fund 
debentures and $11.4 of a 15-percent note payable to an insurance 
company.  These early extinguishments of debt resulted in an 
extraordinary charge of $5.5.  Had the stock issuance and debt 
repayments occurred as of January 1, 1992, the pro forma net loss per 
share would have approximated $5.80 in 1992.

The Company maintains a $300 revolving credit agreement, under which 
there were no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 1993.  At 
December 31, 1992, there were $90.0 outstanding borrowings under the 
revolving credit agreement.  In 1993, the term of the revolving credit 
agreement was extended to 1997.  The Company also maintains other 
domestic and international credit lines with approximately $170 
available at December 31, 1993.

The Company has guaranteed the outstanding borrowings of its ESOP 
Trust.  The ESOP was established for certain of the Company's domestic 
salaried employees who participate in the qualified benefit savings 
plans.  The Company's cash contributions to the ESOP Trust, together 
with the dividends accumulated on the common stock held by the ESOP 
Trust, are used to pay interest and principal due on the notes.  Cash 
contributions and dividends to the ESOP Trust approximated $7 in 1993 
and 1992 to fund its principal payment of $1 and interest payment of 
$6.  The Company's compensation expense was $10.0 in 1993, $10.3 in 
1992 and $9.9 in 1991.  The unearned compensation, which is reflected 
as a reduction to shareholders' investment, represents the historical 
cost of the ESOP Trust's shares of common stock that have not yet been 
allocated to participants.

Based on borrowing rates currently available to the Company for bank 
loans and similar terms and average maturities, the fair value of 
total indebtedness approximated $237 at December 31, 1993 and $436 at 
December 31, 1992.

NOTE 8.  OTHER LIABILITIES:
                                                        December 31,
                                                      1993       1992
                                                     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Accrued retirement & postemployment benefits         $521.8     $436.4
Accrued product coverage & marketing expenses          90.5      102.9
Deferred taxes                                         17.3        9.3
Accrued compensation expenses                           5.6        4.3
Other                                                  44.4       39.9
                                                     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Other liabilities                                    $679.6     $592.8
                                                     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
NOTE 9.  INCOME TAXES:

Income Tax Provision                          1993      1992      1991
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~~~~
Current:
  US federal and state                        $ 4.7     $ 1.8    $(4.2)
  Foreign                                      19.1      15.6     23.6
                                              ~~~~~     ~~~~~    ~~~~~
                                               23.8      17.4     19.4
                                              ~~~~~     ~~~~~    ~~~~~
Deferred:
  US federal and state                        (12.3)     (8.5)    (1.9)
  Foreign                                      10.8         -     ( .6)
                                              ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~
                                              ( 1.5)     (8.5)    (2.5)
                                              ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~
Income tax provision                          $22.3     $ 8.9    $16.9
                                              ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~
Prior to 1992, losses at the Company's operations in the United States 
and United Kingdom had eliminated the need for virtually all deferred 
income taxes.  Effective January 1, 1992, the Company adopted an asset 
and liability approach to income tax accounting.  At the same time, 
the Company recorded substantial obligations for retirement and other 
postemployment benefits that are tax deductible only on a cash basis.  
The tax benefit of the future tax deduction represented by these 
accruals is recognized as a deferred asset along with the effect of 
all other temporary differences between the tax basis and financial 
statement basis of assets and liabilities.  Deferred income taxes also 
reflect the value of the tax benefit carryforwards and an offsetting 
valuation allowance.

                                                              December 31,
Net Deferred Tax Asset                                       1993      1992
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~

Tax effects of future tax deductible differences
related to:
 Accrued health care, life insurance & postemployment
  benefits                                                 $174.0     $161.6
 Other accrued employee benefit expenses                     29.9       31.1
 Accrued product coverage & marketing expenses               63.4       67.3
 Other net deductible differences                            19.3        9.7
Tax effects of future taxable differences related to:
 Accelerated tax depreciation & other tax over book
  deductions related to US plant & equipment               (114.1)    (107.9)
 Net UK taxable differences related primarily to
  plant and equipment                                      ( 10.2)         -
 Miscellaneous net foreign taxable differences             (  1.3)    (   .7)
                                                           ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
Net tax effects of temporary differences                    161.0      161.1
                                                           ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
Tax effects of carryforward benefits:
 US federal net operating loss carryforwards,
  expiring 2006 to 2007                                      18.7       58.6
 US federal foreign tax credits, expiring 1998                4.7          -
 US federal general business tax credits, expiring
  1996 to 2008                                               71.6       58.4
 US federal minimum tax credits with no expiration            7.1        3.1
 UK net tax benefit carryforwards with no expiration            -        4.1
                                                           ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~
Tax effects of carryforwards                                102.1      124.2
                                                           ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~
Tax effects of temporary differences & carryforwards        263.1      285.3
Less valuation allowance                                   (100.7)    (124.4)
                                                           ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
Net deferred tax asset                                     $162.4     $160.9
                                                           ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~


Classified in the Consolidated Statement of Financial 
Position as:
 Current assets                                            $ 89.2     $ 96.4
 Noncurrent assets                                           90.5       73.8
 Noncurrent liabilities                                    ( 17.3)    (  9.3)
                                                           ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
 Net deferred tax asset                                    $162.4     $160.9
                                                           ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~

While the company believes all tax assets ultimately will be realized, 
such realization is dependent upon future earnings in specific tax 
jurisdictions.  Dependent upon the level of profitability, the 
Company's net operating loss carryforwards may be utilized but 
replaced with foreign tax credit carryforwards, which have a shorter 
life and significant limitations on utilization.  The Company's other 
carryforwards also have significant usage limitations which can be 
overcome only by generating earnings at considerably higher levels 
than have been generated in all but the most recent two years.  The 
Company, therefore, has recorded a full valuation allowance against 
those tax assets which represent carryforwards of tax benefits because 
of previous unprofitable operations.  While the need for this 
valuation allowance is subject to periodic review, it is expected that 
the allowance will be reduced and the tax benefits of the 
carryforwards will thereby be recorded in future operations as a 
reduction of income tax expense as the carryforwards actually are 
realized by future earnings.  Such reductions in the valuation 
allowance and realizations of carryforwards amounted to $41.5 in 1993 
and $17.4 in 1992.

The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act ("OBRA") of 1993 retroactively 
extended the research tax credit from its 1992 expiration date through 
June 30, 1995.  Research tax credits of $6.1 for 1992 and an estimated 
$8.0 for 1993 have increased both the general business credit 
carryforwards and the offsetting valuation allowance disclosed above 
as of December 31, 1993.

Earnings (loss) before income taxes and differences between the 
effective tax rate at US federal income tax rate were:



                                          1993       1992       1991
                                         ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Earnings (loss) before income taxes:
 Domestic                                $110.7     $(36.4)   $(142.7)
 Foreign                                   94.3      112.8       97.0
                                         ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
                                         $205.0     $ 76.4    $( 45.7)
                                         ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~

Tax (benefit) at US statutory tax rate   $ 71.8     $ 25.9    $( 15.5)
Increase in the value of net US 
 deferred tax assets as a result of
 the OBRA change in the tax rate     
 from 34% to 35%                          ( 4.4)         -          -
Utilization of net operating loss 
 and tax credit carryforwards from
 prior years                              (41.5)     (17.4)         -
Current year operating losses & tax
 credits for which no benefit has
 been recognized                              -          -       31.7
Other                                     ( 3.6)        .4         .7
                                         ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~
Income tax provision                     $ 22.3     $  8.9    $  16.9
                                         ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~

NOTE 10.  OPERATING LEASES:  Certain of the Company's manufacturing 
plants, warehouses and offices are leased facilities.  The Company 
also leases automobiles and manufacturing and office equipment.  Most 
of these leases require fixed rental payments, expire over the next 10 
years and can be renewed or replaced with similar leases.  Rental 
expense under these leases in 1993, 1992 and 1991 was $50.8, $45.3 and 
$44.0, respectively.  Future minimum payments for operating leases 
with original terms of more than one year are $28.7 in 1994, $22.8 in 
1995, $17.6 in 1996, $16.1 in 1997, $14.5 in 1998 and $114.4 
thereafter.

NOTE 11.  RETIREMENT PLANS:  The Company and its subsidiaries have 
several contributory and noncontributory pension plans covering 
substantially all employees.  Benefits for salaried plans generally 
are based upon the employee's compensation during the three to five 
years preceding retirement.  Under the hourly plans, benefits 
generally are based upon various monthly amounts for each year of 
credited service.  It is the Company's policy to make contributions to 
these plans sufficient to meet the funding requirements of applicable 
laws and regulations, plus such additional amounts, if any, as the 
Company deems appropriate.  Plan assets consist principally of equity 
securities and corporate and Government fixed-income obligations.


Net Periodic Pension Cost                     1993       1992        1991
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                    ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~
Service cost for benefits earned during
 the year                                   $  30.9     $ 28.7      $ 28.2
Interest cost on projected benefit 
 obligation                                    80.7       78.1        82.1
Return on plan assets:
 Actual                                      (202.5)     (79.6)     (235.4)
 Deferred gain (loss)                          99.5      (26.2)      135.0
Amortization of transition asset             (  9.2)     ( 9.6)     (  9.6)
Other amortization, net                         2.4      ( 2.2)        3.1
                                            ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~
Net periodic pension cost (credit)          $   1.8     $(10.8)     $  3.4
                                            ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~

Funded Status                             Overfunded  Underfunded   Combined
~~~~~~~~~~~~~                             ~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Actuarial present value of:
 Vested benefit obligation                  $(569.2)   $(425.5)  $(  994.7)
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
 Accumulated benefit obligation             $(642.3)   $(522.8)  $(1,165.1)
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
 Projected benefit obligation               $(736.0)   $(539.8)  $(1,275.8)
Plan assets at fair value                     780.8      401.2     1,182.0
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
Excess of assets over (under) projected
 benefit obligation                            44.8     (138.6)   (   93.8)
Unrecognized net experience loss               17.6        3.1        20.7
Unrecognized prior service cost                22.7       98.5       121.2
Additional minimum liability                      -     ( 87.7)   (   87.7)
Unamortized transition asset                 ( 36.1)    ( 11.5)   (   47.6)
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
Accrued pension asset (liability)           $  49.0    $(136.2)  $(   87.2)
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Actuarial present value of:
 Vested benefit obligation                  $(358.5)   $(393.0)  $  (751.5)
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
 Accumulated benefit obligation             $(414.2)   $(480.7)  $  (894.9)
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
 Projected benefit obligation               $(468.6)   $(529.8)  $  (998.4)
Plan assets at fair value                     542.4      481.1     1,023.5
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
Excess of assets over (under) projected
 benefit obligation                            73.8     ( 48.7)       25.1
Unrecognized net experience gain             ( 23.1)    ( 28.1)     ( 51.2)
Unrecognized prior service cost                 9.7       66.8        76.5
Additional minimum liability                      -     (  4.3)     (  4.3)
Unamortized transition asset                 ( 32.8)    ( 24.2)     ( 57.0)
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~
Accrued pension asset (liability)           $  27.6    $( 38.5)  $  ( 10.9)
                                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~

In 1993, the projected benefit obligation was determined using 
weighted average discount rates ranging from 6.75 percent for the US 
plans to 8 percent for the international plans and in 1992 rates 
ranging from 8 percent to 9 percent, respectively.  The assumed long-
term rates of compensation increase for salaried plans approximated 
expected inflation in both 1993 and 1992.  The long-term rates of 
return on assets were assumed to be 9.25 percent in 1993 and 9.6 
percent in 1992 for the US plans and 10 percent in 1993 and 11 percent 
in 1992 for the international plans.

The Company has a non-qualified excess benefit plan that provides 
certain employees with defined retirement benefits in excess of 
qualified plan limits imposed by US tax law.  In addition, the Company 
has a supplementary life insurance plan that provides officers and 
other key employees with term life protection during their active 
employment and supplemental retirement benefits upon retirement.  The 
cost of these plans was $3.6 in 1993, $3.2 in 1992 and $2.7 in 1991.  
At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the accrued pension liability for these 
plans was $18.7 and $15.9, respectively.

In addition to the pension plans, the Company provides certain health 
care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees and their 
dependents.  The plans are contributory, with retirees' contributions 
adjusted annually, and contain other cost-sharing features, such as 
deductibles, coinsurance and spousal contributions.  The general 
policy is to fund these benefits as claims and premiums are incurred.  
In 1992, Cummins adopted a new accounting rule for these benefits and 
chose to recognize immediately the unfunded liability for prior 
service.  Prior to 1992, the cost of benefits for eligible retirees 
and their dependents was included in costs as funded and totaled $13.6 
in 1991.

Net Periodic Cost                                      1993        1992
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~
Service cost for benefits earned during the year      $  5.7      $  5.2
Interest cost on benefit obligation                     29.5        29.7
Other                                                    (.1)          -
                                                      ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Net periodic cost                                     $ 35.1      $ 34.9
                                                      ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~  

Funded Status
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Actuarial present value of accumulated benefit
 obligation for:
 Retirees                                             $210.0      $241.7
 Employees eligible to retire                          102.1        55.6
 Other active plan participants                        191.7        99.9
Unrecognized prior service cost                        (24.5)          -
Unrecognized net experience loss                       (69.2)       (1.9)
                                                      ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~
Accrued benefit liability                             $410.1      $395.3
                                                      ~~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~

The weighted average discount rate used in determining the accumulated 
benefit obligation was 6.75 percent in 1993 and 8 percent in 1992.  
The trend rate for medical benefits provided prior to Medicare 
eligibility is 15.5 percent, grading down to an ultimate rate of 4.5 
percent by 2006.  For medical benefits provided after Medicare 
eligibility, the trend rate is 8 percent, grading down to an ultimate 
rate of 4.5 percent by 1997.  The health care cost trend rate 
assumption has a significant effect on the determination of the 
accumulated benefit obligation.  For example, increasing the rate by 1 
percent would increase the accumulated benefit obligation by $29 and 
net periodic cost by $2.

NOTE 12.  EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS:  The Company has various stock 
incentive plans under which officers and other eligible employees may 
be awarded stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted 
stock during the next 10 years.  Under the provisions of the plans, up 
to 1 percent of the Company's outstanding shares of common stock on 
December 31 of the preceding year is available for issuance under the 
plans each year.  At December 31, 1993, there were 439,820 shares of 
common stock available for grant under the plans.  There were 78,220 
options exercisable under the plans at December 31, 1993.

                                       Number of    
                                        Shares      Option Price per Share
                                       ~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Outstanding options at 12/31/91         261,360        $15.94 to $38.91
 Granted                                  4,900        $30.94 to $35.28
 Exercised                              (67,260)       $15.94 to $31.38
 Canceled or expired                    ( 3,740)       $20.88 to $30.72
                                        ~~~~~~~~
Outstanding options at 12/31/92         195,260        $15.94 to $38.91
 Granted                                456,150        $37.41 to $52.56
 Exercised                             (123,740)       $15.94 to $40.25
 Canceled or expired                   (  2,600)       $24.20 to $31.63
                                       ~~~~~~~~~    
Outstanding options at 12/31/93         525,070        $15.94 to $52.56
                                        ~~~~~~~~

NOTE 13.  SHAREHOLDERS' RIGHTS PLAN:  The Company has a Shareholders' 
Rights Plan which it first adopted in 1986.  The Rights Plan provides 
that each share of the Company's common stock has associated with it a 
stock purchase right.  The Rights Plan becomes operative when a person 
or entity acquires 15 percent of the Company's common stock or 
commences a tender offer to purchase 20 percent or more of the 
Company's common stock without the approval of the Company's Board of 
Directors.  In the event a person or entity acquires 15 percent of the 
Company's common stock, each right, except for the acquiring person's 
rights, can be exercised to purchase $400 worth of the Company's 
common stock for $200.  In addition, for a period of 10 days after 
such acquisition, the Board of Directors can exchange such right for a 
new right which permits the holders to purchase one share of the 
Company's common stock for $1 per share.  If a person or entity 
commences a tender offer to purchase 20 percent or more of the 
Company's common stock, unless the Board of Directors redeems the 
rights within 10 days of the event, each right can be exercised to 
purchase one share for $200.  If the person or entity becomes an 
acquiring person, the provisions noted above apply.  The Rights Plan 
also allows holders of the rights to purchase shares of the acquiring 
person's stock at a discount if the Company is acquired or 50 percent 
of the assets or earnings power of the Company is transferred to an 
acquiring person.

NOTE 14.  SEGMENTS OF THE BUSINESS:  The Company operates in a single 
industry segment -- designing, manufacturing and marketing diesel 
engines and related products.  Manufacturing, marketing and technical 
operations are maintained in major areas of the world.

Summary financial information is listed below for each geographic 
area.  Earnings (loss) for each area may not be a meaningful 
representation of each area's contribution to consolidated operating 
results because of significant sales of products between and among the 
Company's various domestic and foreign operations.


                                       UK/     All   Corp. Items & 
                                US    Europe  Other  Eliminations  Combined
1993                          ~~~~~~  ~~~~~~  ~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Net sales:
 To customers in the area     $2,374   $590   $439      $   -      $3,403
 To customers outside the 
  area                           589    251      5          -         845
 Intergeographic transfers       317    149     84       (550)          -
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
 Total                        $3,280   $990   $528      $(550)     $4,248
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Earnings (loss) before
 income taxes                 $  140   $ 89   $ 19      $( 43)     $  205
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Identifiable assets           $1,487   $407   $340      $ 157      $2,391
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
~~~~
Net sales:
 To customers in the area     $1,996   $616   $418      $   -      $3,030
 To customers outside the 
  area                           508    209      2          -         719
 Intergeographic transfers       273    129     69       (471)          -
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
 Total                        $2,777   $954   $489      $(471)     $3,749
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Earnings (loss) before
 income taxes                 $   32   $ 93   $  5      $( 54)     $   76
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Identifiable assets           $1,432   $404   $322      $  72      $2,230
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
~~~~
Net sales:
 To customers in the area     $1,946   $568   $427      $   -      $2,941
 To customers outside the 
  area                           276    188      1          -         465
 Intergeographic transfers       250    117     80       (447)          -
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
 Total                        $2,472   $873   $508      $(447)     $3,406
                              ~~~~~~   ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Earnings (loss) before
 income taxes                 $  (74)  $ 62   $ 21      $( 55)     $  (46)
                              ~~~~~~~  ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~
Identifiable assets           $1,148   $462   $322      $ 109      $2,041
                              ~~~~~~~  ~~~~   ~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~

Total sales for each geographic area are classified by manufacturing 
source and include sales to customers within and outside the area and 
intergeographic transfers.  Transfer prices for sales between the 
Company's various operating units generally are at arm's length, based 
upon business conditions, distribution costs and other costs which are 
expected to be incurred in producing and marketing products.  
Corporate items include interest and other income and expense.  
Identifiable assets are those resources associated with the operations 
in each area.  Corporate assets are principally cash and investments.

The Company generally sells its products on open account under credit 
terms customary to the region of distribution.  The Company performs 
ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and generally does not 
require collateral to secure its customers' receivables.

Net Sales by Marketing Territory         1993       1992       1991
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
United States                           $2,389     $2,016     $1,955
United Kingdom/Europe                      600        629        582
Asia/Far East/Australia                    559        455        340
Mexico/South America                       330        355        290
Canada                                     257        187        161
Africa/Middle East                         113        107         78
                                        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~
Net sales                               $4,248     $3,749     $3,406
                                        ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~

NOTE 15.  GUARANTEES, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES:  In 
connection with the disposition of certain products and operations in 
1989, the Company sold substantially all of the loan and lease 
portfolios of its former finance subsidiary.  Under the terms of the 
sale, the purchaser has recourse to Cummins should certain amounts of 
the loans or leases prove to be uncollectible.  At December 31, 1993, 
the loan and lease portfolios amounted to $14.3.   Accounts receivable 
that have been sold with recourse amounted to $26.5 at December 31, 
1993.

At December 31, 1993, the Company was a party to interest rate swap 
agreements, maturing in 1994 and having an aggregate notional amount 
of $12.0.  The Company had $258.3 of foreign exchange contracts 
outstanding at December 31, 1993.  The foreign exchange contracts 
mature through 1995 and are denominated primarily in UK sterling, 
Japanese yen and European currencies.  The Company had a currency swap 
with a notional amount of $202.6 at December 31, 1993, which matures 
in 1994.  Commodity futures contracts of $5.2 were outstanding at 
December 31, 1993.  These contracts mature through 1995.  At December 
31, 1993, commitments under outstanding letters of credit, guarantees 
and contingencies approximated $100.

Cummins and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of pending 
legal actions, including actions relating to use and performance of 
the Company's products.  The Company carries product liability 
insurance covering significant claims for damages involving personal 
injury and property damage.  The Company also has been identified as a 
potentially responsible party at several waste disposal sites under US 
and related state environmental statutes and regulations.  The Company 
denies liability with respect to many of these legal actions and 
environmental proceedings and vigorously is defending such actions or 
proceedings.  The Company has established reserves for its expected 
future liability in such actions and proceedings when the nature and 
extent of such liability can be estimated reasonably based upon 
presently available information.  In the event the Company is 
determined to be liable for damages in connection with such actions 
and proceedings, the unreserved and uninsured portion of such 
liability is not expected to be material.

NOTE 16.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (unaudited):

                          First     Second      Third    Fourth      Full       
1993                     Quarter    Quarter    Quarter   Quarter     Year
~~~~                     ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
Net sales               $1,048.4   $1,093.4    $988.3   $1,117.8   $4,247.9
Gross profit               251.0      260.6     239.4      285.9    1,036.9
Earnings before the
 extraordinary item         41.1       48.2      40.7       52.6      182.6
 Net earnings               41.1       48.2      40.7       47.1      177.1
Primary earnings per
 common share:
 Before the extra-
  ordinary item         $   1.12    $  1.32    $ 1.11   $   1.42   $   4.95
 Net                        1.12       1.32      1.11       1.26       4.79
Fully diluted earnings
 per common share: 
 Before the extra-
  ordinary item             1.07       1.25      1.06       1.36       4.77
 Net                        1.07       1.25      1.06       1.22       4.63

~~~~ 
Net sales               $  881.3    $ 948.1    $903.6   $1,016.2   $3,749.2
Gross profit               190.4      211.7     202.7      237.7      842.5
Earnings before the
 extraordinary item &
 cumulative effect of
 accounting changes          5.0       18.8      13.8       29.5       67.1
Net earnings (loss)       (246.1)      18.8      13.8       24.0     (189.5)
Primary & fully 
 diluted earnings (loss)
 per common share:
 Before the extra-
  ordinary item &
  cumulative effect of
  accounting changes    $    .10    $   .50    $  .34   $    .79   $   1.77
 Net                       (8.33)       .50       .34        .63      (6.01)


Net earnings in the third quarter of 1993 included a one-time tax 
credit of $4.4 resulting from the OBRA.  As disclosed in Note 7, net 
earnings in the fourth quarter of 1993 and 1992 included extraordinary 
charges of $5.5 related to early extinguishments of debt.

(page)


                  CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                    SCHEDULE V  
                          PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                               (Dollars in Million)
                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


                            Balance            Retirements           Balance
                            Jan. 1     Adds.    or Sales   Other     Dec. 31
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Land and buildings          $  351.9   $  8.3    $  5.5    $  3.2    $  357.9
Machinery, equipment
 and fixtures                1,680.7     46.4     109.5      72.3     1,689.9
Construction in progress        89.7    129.0       2.0     (84.0)      132.7
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
Total                       $2,122.3   $183.7    $117.0    $( 8.5)   $2,180.5
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Land and buildings          $  354.3   $  1.4    $   .4    $( 3.4)   $  351.9
Machinery, equipment
 and fixtures                1,666.8     38.4      56.9      32.4     1,680.7
Construction in progress        89.9    100.8        .4     (99.6)       89.7
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
Total                       $2,110.0   $140.6    $ 57.7    $(70.6)   $2,122.3
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Land and buildings          $  330.7   $ 19.5    $  2.5    $  6.6    $  354.3
Machinery, equipment
 and fixtures                1,588.9     34.1      44.9      88.7     1,666.8
Construction in progress       107.7     88.6       2.3    (105.1)       88.9
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~
Total                       $2,027.3   $142.2    $ 49.7    $( 9.8)   $2,110.0
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~




The net change in "Other" primarily represents translation adjustments per
SFAS No. 52.








(page)


               CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                SCHEDULE VI
         ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                           (Dollars in Millions)
         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 

                            Balance            Retirements           Balance
                            Jan. 1     Adds.    or Sales   Other     Dec. 31
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~   ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Buildings                   $  156.8   $ 11.9    $  2.5    $( 1.9)  $  164.3
Machinery, equipment
 and fixtures                1,036.8    110.0      86.5     ( 2.3)   1,058.0
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~
Total                       $1,193,6   $121.9    $ 89.0    $( 4.2)  $1,222.3
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Buildings                   $  149.1   $ 11.9    $   .1    $( 4.1)  $  156.8
Machinery, equipment
 and fixtures                1,007.9    108.5      52.2     (27.4)   1,036.8
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~
Total                       $1,157.0   $120.4    $ 52.3    $(31.5)  $1,193.6
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Buildings                   $  139.2   $ 11.7    $  1.3    $(  .5)  $  149.1
Machinery, equipment
 and fixtures                  966.9    113.3      42.0    ( 30.3)   1,007.9
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~
Total                       $1,106.1   $125.0    $ 43.3    $(30.8)  $1,157.0
                            ~~~~~~~~   ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~



The net change in "Other" primarily represents translation adjustments per
SFAS No. 52.




(page)


              CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
                               SCHEDULE VIII
                    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                          (Dollars in Millions)
              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



                                                  1993      1992      1991
                                                  ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~
 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Balance beginning of period                      $11.8     $14.4     $14.6 
Additions:
 Provisions                                        4.9       1.8       2.8
 Recoveries and translation adjustments             .1       (.1)       .7
Deductions:
 Write-offs                                        7.3       4.3       3.7
                                                  ~~~~      ~~~~      ~~~~
Balance end of period                            $ 9.5     $11.8     $14.4
                                                 ~~~~~     ~~~~~     ~~~~~
Tax Valuation Allowance:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Balance beginning of period                     $124.4
Additions to offset increases in deferred
 tax assets related to:
  Tax benefit carryforwards recognized as
  assets upon the initial January 1, 1992
  adoption of SFAS No. 109                           -    $139.9
  Additional general business tax credits
  for 1992 and 1993 research tax credits
  generated                                       14.1         -
  Increase in the value of net operating 
  tax carryforwards as a result of the
  OBRA tax rate increase                           1.7         -
  Reduction in the utilization of net
  operating loss carryforwards due to
  extraordinary charges for early
  extinguishment of debt                           1.9       1.9
Deductions to reflect reductions in
deferred tax assets related to actual
utilization of tax benefit carryforwards         (41.5)    (17.4)
Other                                               .1         -
                                                ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~ 
                                                $100.7    $124.4
                                                ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~


(page)


                CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                  SCHEDULE IX
                             SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
                             (Dollars in Millions)
                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                   At Year-end                      During the Year  
               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                           Average                                   Average
                           Interest      Maximum        Average      Interest
               Borrowed      Rate      Outstanding    Outstanding      Rate
               ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~
~~~~
Domestic        $   -           -         $40.0          $25.9         4.0%
Foreign          13.4        18.4%         42.2           11.6        11.5%
                ~~~~~                     ~~~~~          ~~~~~
Total           $13.4                     $82.2          $37.5
                ~~~~~                     ~~~~~          ~~~~~
~~~~
Domestic        $40.0         4.8%        $61.0          $38.9         4.4%
Foreign          10.5        11.9%         12.5           17.7        13.0%
                ~~~~~                     ~~~~~          ~~~~~
Total           $50.5                     $73.5          $56.6
                ~~~~~                     ~~~~~          ~~~~~
~~~~
Domestic        $10.0         6.4%        $35.3          $26.6        6.5%
Foreign          11.3        12.3%         17.7           15.0       12.7%
                ~~~~~                     ~~~~~          ~~~~~
Total           $21.3                     $53.0          $41.6
                ~~~~~                     ~~~~~          ~~~~~

Average outstanding borrowings during the year were calculated for 
each entity based on the sum of daily outstanding balances divided by 
365 days, or using the average monthly balances.

Average interest rates during the year were calculated by dividing 
related interest expense for the year by average outstanding 
borrowings.

Short-term borrowings are payable to banks and include amounts 
outstanding under various formal and informal credit arrangements 
including certain amounts where related interest rates are subsidized 
to promote trade exports.  The Company also maintains a $300 revolving 
credit agreement available for short- and/or long-term borrowings with 
banks.  At December 31, 1993, there were no outstanding borrowings 
under this agreement.  At December 31, 1992, the Company had $40.0 
outstanding short-term borrowings and $50.0 outstanding long-term 
borrowings under this agreement.  At December 31, 1991, the Company 
had $20.0 of outstanding long-term borrowings under this agreement.

(page)


               CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                 SCHEDULE X
                 SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                            (Dollars in Millions)
               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~





                                         1993        1992        1991
                                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~


Maintenance and repairs                 $145.0      $125.1      $118.7



Depreciation & amortization 
 of intangibles                         $125.1      $122.5      $127.2



(page)


                              SIGNATURES
                              ~~~~~~~~~~

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC.



By     /s/Peter B. Hamilton          By    /s/John McLachlan
       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
       P. B. Hamilton                      J. McLachlan
       Vice President & Chief              Vice President - Corporate
       Financial Officer                   Controller (Principal
       (Principal Financial                Accounting Officer)
       Officer)


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf 
of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signatures                 Title                                  Date
~~~~~~~~~~                 ~~~~~                                  ~~~~

                           Director & Chairman of the Board       3/4/94
       *                   of Directors & Chief Executive 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
(H. B. Schacht)


       *                   Director and President & Chief         3/4/94
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Operating Officer
(J. A. Henderson)

       *                                                          3/4/94
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director
(H. Brown)

       *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director                               3/4/94
(R. J. Darnall)

       *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director                               3/4/94
            
(J. D. Donaldson)

       *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director                               2/24/94
(W. Y. Elisha)

       *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director                               2/22/94
(H. H. Gray)


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director
(D. G. Mead)

       *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director                               3/4/94
(J. I. Miller)

       *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director                               2/22/94
(W. I. Miller) 

       *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director                               3/4/94
(D. S. Perkins)


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director
(W. D. Ruckelshaus)

       *
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director                               2/22/94
(F. A. Thomas) 

       *                                                          3/4/94
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      Director
(J. L. Wilson)



By     /s/Steven L. Zeller
       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
       Steven L. Zeller
       Attorney-in-fact




(page)

CUMMINS ENGINE COMPANY, INC., AND SUBSIDIARIES
EXHIBIT INDEX
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


3(a)    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Cummins Engine Company,
        Inc., as amended (incorporated by reference to Quarterly 
        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 1989 and 
        by reference to Form 8-K, dated July 16, 1990).

3(b)    By-laws, as amended and restated, of the Company (incorporated 
        by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
        December 31, 1988 and by reference to Quarterly Report on Form 
        10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 1980).

4(b)    Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of June 4, 1993, among 
        Cummins Engine Company, Inc., certain banks, Chemical Bank as 
        Administrative Agent and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New 
        York as Co-Agent (incorporated by reference to Quarterly 
        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 4, 1993).

4(c)    Rights Agreement, as amended (incorporated by reference to 
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
        1989, by reference to Form 8-K, dated July 26, 1990, by 
        reference to Form 8, dated November 6, 1990, by reference to 
        Form 8-A12B/A, dated November 1, 1993, and by reference to 
        Form 8-A12B/A, dated January 12, 1994).

10(a)   Target Bonus Plan (incorporated by reference to Annual Report 
        on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992).

10(b)   Five-Year Performance Plan, as amended (incorporated by 
        reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
        December 31, 1988).

10(c)   Key Employee Stock Investment Plan, as amended (incorporated 
        by reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
        December 31, 1988).

10(d)   Supplemental Life Insurance and Deferred Income Program, as 
        amended (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988).

10(e)   Financial Counseling Program, as amended (incorporated by 
        reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
        December 31, 1983).

10(f)   1986 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Quarterly 
        Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 30, 1986).

10(g)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as 
        amended (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on Form 
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988).

10(h)   Key Executive Compensation Protection Plan (incorporated by 
        reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
        December 31, 1988).

10(i)   Excess Benefit Retirement Plan, as amended (incorporated by 
        reference to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
        December 31, 1988).

10(j)   Performance Share Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference 
        to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
        1988).

10(k)   Restated Sponsors Agreement between Case Corporation and 
        Cummins Engine Company, Inc., dated December 7, 1990, together 
        with the Restated Partnership Agreement between Case Engine 
        Holding Company, Inc., and Cummins Engine Holding Company, 
        Inc., dated December 7, 1990 (incorporated by reference to 
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
        1990).

10(l)   Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Cummins Engine 
        Company, Inc., (incorporated by reference to Annual Report on 
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989).

10(m)   Stock Unit Appreciation Plan (incorporated by reference to 
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
        1990).

10(n)   Investment Agreement between Ford Motor Company and Cummins 
        Engine Company, Inc., dated July 16, 1990 (incorporated by 
        reference to Form 8-K, dated July 26, 1990).

10(o)   Investment Agreement between Tenneco Inc., and Cummins Engine 
        Company, Inc., dated July 16, 1990 (incorporated by reference 
        to Form 8-K, dated July 26, 1990).

10(p)   Investment Agreement between Kubota Corporation and Cummins 
        Engine Company, Inc., dated July 16, 1990 (incorporated by 
        reference to Form 8-K, dated July 26, 1990).

10(q)   Three Year Performance Plan (incorporated by reference to 
        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
        1992).

10(r)   Consulting Arrangement with Harold Brown (incorporated by 
        reference to the description thereof provided in the Company's 
        definitive Proxy Statement, dated March 4, 1994).

10(s)   1992 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to 
        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 4, 
        1993).

11      Schedule of Computation of Per Share Earnings for each of the 
        three years ended December 31, 1993 (filed herewith).

21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith).

23      Consent of Arthur Andersen & Co. (filed herewith).

24      Powers of Attorney (filed herewith).





