
10-K
10-K MAIN TEXT




                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K

               (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993

                                      OR

               ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
                 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                         Commission File Number 1-2979

                              NORWEST CORPORATION

                A Delaware Corporation - I.R.S. No. 41-0449260
                                Norwest Center
                             Sixth and Marquette
                        Minneapolis, Minnesota  55479
                          Telephone (612) 667-1234

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                    Name of each exchange on 
Title of each class                 which registered

Common Stock ($1 2/3 par value)     New York Stock Exchange
                                    Chicago Stock Exchange

Preferred Share Purchase Rights     New York Stock Exchange
                                    Chicago Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares Representing      New York Stock Exchange
10.24% Cumulative Preferred Stock

Depositary Shares Representing      New York Stock Exchange
Cumulative Convertible Preferred
Stock, Series B

6 3/4% Convertible Subordinated     New York Stock Exchange
Debentures Due 2003                 

No securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act.

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes_x__ No___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be 
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

On January 31, 1994, 311,212,676 shares of common stock were outstanding, 
of which 281,972,855 shares were held by non-affiliates.  At that date, 
the aggregate market values of these shares, based upon a closing price 
of $26.375 per share, were $8,208.2 million and $7,437.0 million, 
respectively.

Documents Incorporated by Reference
Portions of the corporation's Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy 
Statement for the annual meeting of stockholders to be held April 
26, 1994, are incorporated by reference into Part III.



PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
Norwest Corporation (the corporation) is a regional bank holding company 
organized under the laws of Delaware in 1929 and registered under the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"). As a 
diversified financial services organization, the corporation operates 
through subsidiaries engaged in banking and in related businesses.  The 
corporation provides retail, commercial, and corporate banking services 
to its customers through banks located in Arizona, Colorado, Illinois, 
Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, 
Ohio, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. The corporation 
provides additional financial services to its customers through 
subsidiaries engaged in various businesses, principally mortgage banking, 
consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural finance, commercial 
finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance, computer 
and data processing services, trust services, and venture capital 
investments.

At December 31, 1993, the corporation and its subsidiaries employed 
approximately 35,000 persons, had consolidated total assets of $50.8 
billion, total deposits of $32.6 billion, and total stockholders' equity 
of $3.6 billion. Based on total assets at December 31, 1993, the 
corporation was the 14th largest bank holding company in the United 
States.

As a holding company, the corporation's role is to coordinate the 
establishment of goals, objectives, policies and strategies, to monitor 
adherence to policies and to provide capital funds to its subsidiaries. 
In addition, the corporation provides its subsidiaries with strategic 
planning support, asset and liability management services, investment 
administration and portfolio planning, tax planning, new product and 
business development support, advertising, administrative services and 
human resources management.  The corporation derives substantially all 
its income from investments in and advances to its subsidiaries and 
service fees received from its subsidiaries.

The Financial Review, which begins on page 17 in the Appendix, discusses 
developments in the corporation's business during 1993 and provides 
financial and statistical data relative to the business and operations of 
the corporation. A brief description of the primary business lines of the 
corporation follows. Refer to Footnote 14 of the corporation's financial 
statements for additional information about the corporation's business 
segments.

Banking
The corporation's subsidiary banks, serving 15 states with 578 locations, 
offer diversified financial services including corporate and community 
banking, trust, capital management, data processing and credit card 
services.  Investment services are provided to customers through Norwest 
Investment Services, Inc., which operates in 15 states with 111 offices, 
primarily in banking locations.  In addition, Norwest Insurance, Inc. and 
its subsidiaries operate insurance agencies in 19 states with 102 offices 
offering complete lines of commercial and personal coverages to 
customers. 

Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. is the largest bank in the group with total 
assets of $15.3 billion at December 31, 1993.  Eight other banks in the 
group equaled or exceeded $1.0 billion in total assets: Norwest Bank Iowa, 
N.A. ($6.3 billion), Norwest Bank South Dakota, N.A. ($2.9 billion), 
Norwest Bank Nebraska, N.A  ($2.9 billion), Norwest Bank Arizona, N.A. 
($2.2 billion), Norwest Bank Denver, N.A. ($2.0 billion),  Norwest Bank


 
Wisconsin, N.A. ($1.5 billion), Norwest Bank North Dakota, N.A ($1.1 
billion) and Norwest Bank Fort Wayne, N.A. ($1.0 billion).

Norwest Venture Capital consists of a group of four affiliated companies 
engaged in making and managing investments in start-up businesses, 
emerging growth companies, management buy-outs, acquisitions and 
corporate recapitalizations.  Norwest Venture Capital has supported the 
formation of nearly 300 new businesses with investments of nearly $400 
million.  Norwest Venture Capital's investments typically range from 
$750,000 to $5,000,000; however, larger sums may be invested in a single 
company, sometimes through syndication with other venture capitalists.  
Most Norwest Venture Capital emerging growth company clients are engaged 
in technology-related businesses, such as information processing, 
microelectronics, biotechnology, computer software, medical products, 
health care delivery, telecommunications, industrial automation, 
environmental related businesses and non-technology businesses, such as 
specialty retailing and consumer related business.  Financing of 
management buy-outs is done for a variety of businesses.

Mortgage Banking
The corporation, through its mortgage banking operations, originates and 
purchases residential first mortgage loans for sale to various investors 
and provides servicing of mortgage loans for others where servicing 
rights have been retained.  Income is primarily earned from origination 
fees, loan servicing fees, interest on mortgages held for sale, and the 
sale of mortgages and servicing rights.  Norwest Mortgage offers a wide 
range of FHA, VA and conventional loan programs through a network of 633 
offices in 577 communities in all 50 states.  Approximately 49 percent of 
the mortgages are FHA and VA mortgages guaranteed by the federal 
government and sold as GNMA securities.  In 1993 the company funded $33.7 
billion of mortgages, with the average loan being approximately $97,500.  
This compares with $21.0 billion of fundings in 1992 and $13.2 billion in 
1991.  As of December 31, 1993 the mortgage banking servicing portfolio 
totaled $45.7 billion with a weighted average coupon of 7.22 percent.  In 
1993 mortgage banking retained $24.1 billion in servicing, or 71.5 
percent of fundings, as compared with $13.0 billion or 61.9 percent of 
fundings and $4.2 billion or 31.8 percent of fundings in 1992 and 1991, 
respectively.

Consumer Finance
Consumer finance activities, provided through the corporation's 
subsidiary, Norwest Financial, Inc. and its subidiaries ("Norwest 
Financial"), include providing direct installment loans to individuals, 
purchasing of sales finance contracts, private label and lease accounts 
receivable and other related products and services.  Norwest Financial 
provides consumer finance products and services through 954 stores in 794 
communities in 46 states and in all 10 Canadian provinces.  At December 
31, 1993, consumer finance receivables accounted for 89 percent of 
Norwest Financial's total receivables.  Direct installment loans to 
individuals constitute the largest portion of the consumer finance 
business and, in addition, sales finance contracts are purchased from 
retailers.  The average installment loan made during 1993 was 
approximately $2,799 while sales finance contracts purchased during the 
year averaged approximately $976.  Comparable amounts in 1992 and 1991 
were $2,700 and $900, and $2,500 and $900, respectively.  

Norwest Financial also has insurance subsidiaries which are primarily 
engaged in the business of providing, directly or through reinsurance 
arrangements, credit life and credit disability insurance as a part of 
Norwest Financial's consumer finance business and the consumer finance 
business of subsidiaries of the corporation.  Property, involuntary 
unemployment and non-filing insurance is sold as part of Norwest 
Financial's consumer finance business directly or through a reinsurance 




arrangement by one of its insurance subsidiaries or on an agency basis.

Competition
Legislative and regulatory changes coupled with technological advances 
have significantly increased competition in the financial services 
industry.  The corporation's banks and financial services subsidiaries 
compete with other commercial banks and financial institutions including 
savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage 
banking companies, brokerage houses and insurance agencies.

Government policies, supervision and regulation
General
As a bank holding company, the corporation is subject to the supervision 
of the Federal Reserve Board.  The corporation's banking subsidiaries are 
subject to supervision and examination by applicable federal and state 
banking agencies. All of the corporation's banking subsidiaries are 
insured, and therefore are subject to regulation, by the FDIC. In 
addition to the impact of regulation, commercial banks are affected 
significantly by the actions of the Federal Reserve Board affecting the
money supply and credit availability.

The corporation is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking 
and nonbanking subsidiaries. Accordingly, the right of the corporation, 
and thus the right of the corporation's creditors, to participate in any 
distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is necessarily 
subject to the prior claims of creditors of such subsidiary, except to 
the extent that the corporation may be a creditor. 

Dividend Restrictions
Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of 
dividends the subsidiary banks can pay to the corporation without 
regulatory approval. The approval of the OCC is required for any dividend 
by a national bank if the total of all dividends declared by the bank in 
any calendar year would exceed the total of its net profits, as defined 
by regulation, for that year combined with its retained net profits for 
the preceding two years less any required transfers to surplus or a fund 
for the retirement of any preferred stock. In addition, a national bank 
may not pay a dividend in an amount greater than its net profits then on 
hand after deducting its losses and bad debts. For this purpose, bad 
debts are defined to include, generally, loans which have matured and are 
in arrears with respect to interest by six months or more, other than 
such loans which are well secured and in the process of collection. Under 
these provisions the corporation's national bank subsidiaries could have 
declared, as of December 31, 1993, without obtaining prior regulatory 
approval, aggregate dividends of $483.2 million. The payment of dividends 
by any subsidiary bank may also be affected by other factors, such as the 
maintenance of adequate capital for such subsidiary bank.

If, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under 
its jurisdiction is engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, 
depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the 
payment of dividends), such authority may require, after notice and 
hearing, that such bank cease and desist from such practice. The Federal 
Reserve Board, the OCC, and the FDIC have issued policy statements which 
provide that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally 
pay dividends only out of current operating earnings.




Holding Company Structure
The corporation's banking subsidiaries are subject to restrictions under 
federal law which limit the transfer of funds by the subsidiary banks to 
the corporation and its non-bank subsidiaries, whether in the form of 
loans, extensions of credit, investments, or asset purchases. Such 
transfers by any subsidiary bank to the corporation or any non-bank 
subsidiary are limited in amount to 10% of the bank's capital and surplus 
and, with respect to the corporation and all non-bank subsidiaries, to an 
aggregate of 20% of the bank's capital and surplus. Further, such 
loans and extensions of credit are required to be secured in specified 
amounts.

The Federal Reserve Board has a policy to the effect that a bank holding 
company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial 
strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to 
support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when 
the corporation may not have the resources to provide it. Any capital 
loans by the corporation to any of the subsidiary banks are subordinate 
in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the 
subsidiary bank. In addition, the Crime Control Act of 1990 provides that 
in the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by 
the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain 
the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy 
trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

A depository institution insured by the FDIC can be held liable for any 
loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC 
after August 9, 1989, in connection with (i) the default of a commonly 
controlled FDIC-insured depository institution or (ii) any assistance 
provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository 
institution in danger of default. "Default" is defined generally as the 
appointment of a conservator or receiver and "in danger of default" is 
defined generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that 
a "default" is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.

Federal law (12 U.S.C. Section 55) permits the OCC to order the pro 
rata assessment of shareholders of a national bank whose capital stock 
has become impaired, by losses or otherwise, to relieve a deficiency in 
such national bank's capital stock. This statute also provides for the 
enforcement of any such pro rata assessment of shareholders of such 
national bank to cover such impairment of capital stock by sale, to the 
extent necessary, of the capital stock of any assessed shareholder 
failing to pay the assessment. Similarly, the laws of certain states 
provide for such assessment and sale with respect to banks chartered by 
such states. The corporation, as the sole shareholder of certain of its 
subsidiary banks, is subject to such provisions.

Capital Requirements
In January 1989, the Federal Reserve Board issued final risk-based 
capital guidelines for bank holding companies, such as the corporation. 
The new guidelines, which became effective December 31, 1990, were phased 
in over two years. The minimum ratio of total capital to risk-adjusted 
assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as stand-by 
letters of credit) is 8%. At least half of the total capital is to be 
composed of common equity, retained earnings, and a limited amount of 
noncumulative perpetual preferred stock ("Tier 1 capital"). The remainder 
("Tier 2 capital") may consist of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual 
debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, a limited amount of 
subordinated debt, other preferred stock, and a limited amount of 
allowance for credit losses.  The Federal Reserve Board has adopted 
changes to its risk-based and leverage ratio requirements applicable to 
bank holding companies and state chartered member banks that require that 
all intangibles, including core deposit intangibles, purchased mortgage 




servicing rights ("PMSRs"), and purchased credit card relationships 
("PCCRs") be deducted from Tier 1 capital.  The changes, however, 
grandfather identifiable assets (other than PMSRs and PCCRs) acquired on 
or before February 19, 1992, and permit the inclusion of readily 
marketable PMSRs and PCCRs in Tier 1 capital to the extent that (i) PMSRs 
and PCCRs do not exceed 50% of Tier 1 capital and (ii) PCCRs do not 
exceed 25% of Tier 1 capital.  For such purposes, PMSRs and PCCRs each 
would be included in Tier 1 capital only up to the lesser of (a) 90% of 
their fair market value (which must be determined quarterly) and (b) 100% 
of the remaining unamortized book value of such assets. The OCC has 
adopted substantially similar regulations.  In addition, the Federal 
Reserve Board approved in August 1990 final minimum "leverage ratio" (the 
ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average total assets) guidelines for 
bank holding companies and state member banks. These guidelines provide 
for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies and state 
member banks that meet certain specified criteria, including that they 
have the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies and 
state member banks will be required to maintain a leverage ratio of 3% 
plus an additional cushion of 1% to 2%.  The tangible Tier 1 leverage 
ratio is the ratio of a banking organization's Tier 1 capital, less all 
intangibles, to total assets, less all intangibles. Each of the 
corporation's banking subsidiaries is also subject to capital 
requirements adopted by applicable regulatory agencies which are 
substantially similar to the foregoing. At December 31, 1993, the 
corporation's Tier 1 and total capital (the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 
capital) to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 9.84% and 12.60%, 
respectively, and the corporation's leverage ratio was 6.60%. Neither the 
corporation nor any subsidiary bank has been advised by the appropriate 
federal regulatory agency of any specific leverage ratio applicable to 
it.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
In December 1991, Congress enacted the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA"), which substantially 
revises the bank regulatory and funding provisions of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act and makes revisions to several other federal banking 
statutes.

Among other things, FDICIA requires the federal banking agencies to take 
"prompt corrective action" in respect of depository institutions that do 
not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital 
tiers: "well capitalized", "adequately capitalized", "undercapitalized", 
"significantly undercapitalized", and "critically undercapitalized". A 
depository institution's capital tier will depend upon where its capital 
levels are in relation to various relevant capital measures, which will 
include a risk-based capital measure and a leverage ratio capital 
measure, and certain other factors.

A depository institution is well capitalized if it significantly exceeds 
the minimum level required by regulation for each relevant capital 
measure, adequately capitalized if it meets each such measure, 
undercapitalized if it fails to meet any such measure, significantly 
undercapitalized if it is significantly below any such measure, and 
critically undercapitalized if it fails to meet any critical capital 
level set forth in regulations. The critical capital level must be a 
level of tangible equity equal to not less than 2% of total assets and 
not more than 65% of the minimum leverage ratio to be prescribed by 
regulation (except to the extent that 2% would be higher than such 65% 
level). An institution may be deemed to be in a capitalization category 
that is lower than is indicated by its actual capital position if, among 
other things, it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating.

Under regulations adopted pursuant to the foregoing provisions, for an 
institution to be well capitalized it must have a Tier 1 risk-based 
capital ratio of at least 6%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at 




least 10%, and a leverage ratio of at least 5%, and not be subject to any 
specific capital order or directive. For an institution to be adequately 
capitalized it must have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 
4%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, and a leverage ratio 
of at least 4% (and in some cases 3%). As of December 31, 1993, all of 
the corporation's banking subsidiaries were well capitalized.

FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any 
capital distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any 
management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would 
thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions 
are subject to a wide range of limitations on operations and activities, 
including growth limitations, and are required to submit a capital 
restoration plan. The federal banking agencies may not accept a capital 
plan without determining, among other things, that the plan is based on 
realistic assumptions and is likely to succeed in restoring the 
depository institution's capital. In addition, for a capital restoration 
plan to be acceptable, the depository institution's parent holding 
company must guarantee that the institution will comply with such capital 
restoration plan. The aggregate liability of the parent holding company 
is limited to the lesser of (i) an amount equal to 5% of the depository 
institution's total assets at the time it became undercapitalized and 
(ii) the amount which is necessary (or would have been necessary) to 
bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards 
applicable with respect to such institution as of the time it fails to 
comply with the plan. If a depository institution fails to submit an 
acceptable plan, it is treated as if it were significantly 
undercapitalized.

Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to 
a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell 
sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to 
reduce total assets, and cessation of receipt of deposits from 
correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized institutions are subject 
to the appointment of a receiver or conservator.

FDICIA directs that each federal banking agency prescribe standards for 
depository institutions and depository institution holding companies 
relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit 
systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, 
asset growth, compensation, a maximum ratio of classified assets to 
capital, minimum earnings sufficient to absorb losses, a minimum ratio of 
market value to book value for publicly traded shares, and such other 
standards as the agency deems appropriate.  Although the corporation 
believes it is in compliance with the above FDICIA standards, the 
ultimate impact, if any, of such standards on the corporation cannot be 
ascertained.

FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the 
operations of the corporation, including new reporting requirements, 
revised regulatory standards for real estate lending, "truth in savings" 
provisions, and the requirement that a depository institution give 90 
days' notice to customers and regulatory authorities before closing any 
branch.

Under other regulations promulgated under FDICIA a bank cannot accept 
brokered deposits (that is, deposits obtained through a person engaged in 
the business of placing deposits with insured depository institutions or 
with interest rates significantly higher that prevailing market rates) 
unless (i) it is "well capitalized" or (ii) it is "adequately 
capitalized" and receives a waiver from the FDIC. A bank is defined to be 
well capitalized if it maintains a leverage ratio of at least 5%, a ratio 
of Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets of at least 6%, and a ratio of 
total capital to risk-adjusted assets of at least 10%, and is not 
otherwise in a "troubled condition" as specified by the appropriate



 
federal regulatory agency. A bank is defined to be "adequately 
capitalized" if it meets all of its minimum capital requirements. A bank 
that cannot receive brokered deposits also cannot offer "pass-through" 
insurance on certain employee benefit accounts, unless it provides 
certain notices to affected depositors. In addition, a bank that is 
"adequately capitalized" and that has not received a waiver from the FDIC 
may not pay an interest rate on any deposits in excess of 75 basis points 
over certain prevailing market rates. There are no such restrictions on a 
bank that is "well capitalized". At December 31, 1993, all of the 
corporation's banking subsidiaries were well capitalized and, therefore, 
were not subject to these restrictions.

FDIC Insurance
Effective January 1, 1993, the deposit insurance assessment rate for the 
Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF") and the Savings Association Insurance Fund 
("SAIF") increased as part of the adoption by the FDIC of a transitional 
risk-based assessment system. In June 1993, the FDIC published final 
regulations making the transitional system permanent effective January 1, 
1994, but left open the possibility that it may consider expanding the 
range between the highest and lowest assessment rates at a later date. An 
institution's risk category is based upon whether the institution is well 
capitalized, adequately capitalized, or less than adequately capitalized. 
Each insured depository institution is also to be assigned to one of the 
following "supervisory subgroups": Subgroup A, B, or C. Subgroup A 
institutions are financially sound institutions with few minor 
weaknesses; Subgroup B institutions are institutions that demonstrate 
weaknesses which, if not corrected, could result in significant 
deterioration; and Subgroup C institutions are institutions for which 
there is a substantial probability that the FDIC will suffer a loss in 
connection with the institution unless effective action is taken to 
correct the areas of weakness. Based on its capital and supervisory 
subgroups, each BIF or SAIF member institution will be assigned an annual 
FDIC assessment rate ranging from 0.23% per annum (for well capitalized 
Subgroup A institutions) to 0.31% (for undercapitalized Subgroup C 
institutions). Adequately capitalized institutions will be assigned 
assessment rates ranging from 0.26% to 0.30%. The corporation incurred 
$66.2 million of FDIC assessment expense in 1993 as compared with $62.5 
million in 1992 and $57.4 million in 1991.  Because of decreases in the 
reserves of the BIF and SAIF due to the increased number of bank failures 
in recent years, it is possible the BIF and SAIF premiums will be further 
increased and it is possible that there may be a special assessment. Any 
such further increase or special assessment would also decrease net 
income, and a special assessment could have a material adverse effect on 
the results of operations of the corporation. 

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
The corporation operates 578 commercial banking locations, of which 382 
are owned directly by subsidiary banks and 196 are leased from outside 
parties.  The mortgage banking operation leases its headquarters 
facilities and servicing center in Des Moines, Iowa,  leases a servicing 
center in Minneapolis, Minnesota, owns an additional servicing center 
located in Springfield, Ohio, and leases all mortgage production offices 
nationwide.  Norwest Financial owns its headquarters in Des Moines, Iowa, 
and leases all consumer finance branch locations.  The corporation and 
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. lease their offices in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota.





The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 57 
and 70 in the Appendix contain additional information with respect to 
premises and equipment and commitments under noncancellable leases for 
premises and equipment.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
None

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
None




PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
         MATTERS
The principal trading markets for the corporation's common equity
are presented on the cover page of the Form 10-K.  The high and low
sales prices for the corporation's common stock for each quarter
during the past two years and information regarding cash dividends
is set forth on pages 62, 82, and 92 in the Appendix.  The number of
holders of record of the common equity securities of the corporation
at January 31, 1994 were:

Title of Class                                      Number of Holders

6 3/4 % convertible 
subordinated debentures due 2003                                   10

Depositary Shares Representing Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B                              91

Common stock, par value $1 2/3 per share                       25,999

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
The selected financial data begins on page 86 in the Appendix.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The discussion and analysis is presented beginning on page 17 in the 
Appendix and should be read in conjunction with the related financial 
statements and notes thereto included under Item 8.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
The consolidated  financial statements of the corporation and its 
subsidiaries begin on page 36 in the Appendix.  The report of independent 
certified public accountants on the corporation's consolidated financial 
statements is presented on page 84 in the Appendix.  

Selected quarterly financial data is presented on pages 92 and 93 in the 
Appendix.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None




PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
The information required to be submitted in response to this item is 
omitted because a definitive proxy statement containing such information 
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to 
Regulation 14A and such information is expressly incorporated herein by 
reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
The information required to be submitted in response to this item is 
omitted because a definitive proxy statement containing such information 
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to 
Regulation 14A and such information is expressly incorporated herein by 
reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
The information required to be submitted in response to this item is 
omitted because a definitive proxy statement containing such information 
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to 
Regulation 14A and such information is expressly incorporated herein by 
reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
The information required to be submitted in response to this item is 
omitted because a definitive proxy statement containing such information 
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to 
Regulation 14A and such information is expressly incorporated herein by 
reference.




PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) (1) Financial Statements - See Item 8 above.
         (2) Financial Statement Schedules
             All schedules to the consolidated financial statements 
             normally required by Form 10-K are omitted since they
             are either not applicable or the required information
             is shown in the financial statements or the notes
             thereto.

     (b)     Reports on Form 8-K
         (1) The corporation filed Current Reports on Form 8-K
             dated October 25, 1993, filing certain documents in
             connection with the offering of 6.65% Subordinated
             Debentures Due 2023, and dated December 29, 1993,
             filing certain documents in connection with the
             offering of Medium-Term Notes, Series D. 

     (c)        Exhibits                                                 Page
          2.    Pro forma combined financial information for the
                corporation and pending acquisitions at December
                31, 1993 and for the years ended December 31,
                1993, 1992 and 1991....................................    94 
          3(a). Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended,
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(b) to 
                the corporation's Current Report on Form 8-K dated 
                June 28, 1993.
          3(b). Certificate of Designations of powers, preferences
                and rights relating to the corporation's 10.24%
                Cumulative Preferred Stock incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4(a) to the corporation's
                Registration Statement No. 33-38806.
          3(c). Certificate of Designations of powers, preferences
                and rights relating to the corporation's Cumulative
                Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 2 to the corporation's
                Form 8-A, dated August 8, 1991.
          3(d). By-Laws, as amended, incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 4(c) to the corporation's 
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                March 31, 1991.
          4(a). See 3(a), 3(b), 3(c), and 3(d) of Item 14(c), above.
          4(b). Rights Agreement, dated as of November 22, 1988, 
                between the corporation and Citibank, N.A. 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to
                the corporation's Form 8-A, dated December 6, 1988,
                and Certificates of Adjustment pursuant to Section
                12 of the Rights Agreement incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 3 to the corporation's Form 8,
                dated July 21, 1989, and to Exhibit 4 to the 
                corporation's Form 8-A/A dated June 29, 1993.
          4(c). Copies of instruments with respect to long-term
                debt will be furnished to the Commission upon
                request.
        *10(a). 1983 Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 28(b) to the
                corporation's Registration Statement No. 2-95331.




        *10(b). 1985 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, as 
                amended, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                99(a) to the corporation's Registration Statement
                No. 033-50309.
        *10(c). Employees' Stock Deferral Plan incorporated by
                reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the corporation's Annual 
                Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.
        *10(d). Executive Incentive Compensation Plan incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 19(a) to the corporation's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
                June 30, 1988.  Amendment to Executive Incentive 
                Compensation Plan incorporated by reference to 
                Exhibit 19(b) to the corporation's Quarterly Report on 
                Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1989.
        *10(e). Supplemental Savings-Investment Plan, as amended, 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the
                corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
                ended December 31, 1992.
        *10(f). Executive Financial Counseling Plan incorporated 
                by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the corporation's
                Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
                ended December 31, 1987.
        *10(g). Supplemental Long Term Disability Plan incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the corporation's
                Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                December 31, 1990.  Amendment to Supplemental Long 
                Term Disability Plan incorporated by reference 
                to Exhibit 10(g) to the corporation's Annual Report
                on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.
        *10(h). Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
                Directors incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10(g) to the corporation's Annual Report on
                Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987.
        *10(i). Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h)
                to the corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                for the year ended December 31, 1987.  Amendment to 
                Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors incorporated 
                by reference to Exhibit 19 to the corporation's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
                September 30, 1990.
        *10(j). Directors' Formula Stock Award Plan, as amended, 
                incorporated by reference to Exhibit 19 to the
                corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                quarter ended September 30, 1993.
        *10(k). Directors' Stock Deferral Plan incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 19 to the corporation's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                June 30, 1992.
        *10(l). Agreement between the corporation and Lloyd P.
                Johnson dated March 11, 1991, incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 19(c) to the corporation's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
                March 31, 1991.
        *10(m). Agreement between the corporation and Richard M. 
                Kovacevich dated March 18, 1991, incorporated
                by reference to Exhibit 19(e) to the corporation's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                quarter ended March 31, 1991.




        *10(n). Form of agreement executed in March 1991, between
                the corporation and 13 executive officers including
                two directors, incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 19(f) to the corporation's Quarterly Report
                on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1991.  
                Amendments dated March 16, 1992 to the agreements 
                between the corporation and Lloyd P. Johnson and
                Richard M. Kovacevich incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 19(a) to the corporation's Quarterly Report
                on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1992.
        *10(o). Lincoln Financial Corporation Directors' Stock 
                Compensation Plan incorporated by reference to
                Exhibit 10 to the corporation's Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1993. 
        *10(p). Employees' Deferred Compensation Plan incorporated 
                by reference to Exhibit 99 to the corporation's 
                Registration Statement No. 033-50307.
        *10(q). Consulting Agreement between the corporation and
                Gerald J. Ford dated January 19, 1994..................    102 
        *10(r). First United Bank Group, Inc. Incentive Stock
                Option Plan incorporated by reference to the
                corporation's Registration Statement No. 033-50495.
         11.    Computation of Earnings Per Share......................   106
         12(a). Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges......   107
         12(b). Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
                and Preferred Stock Dividends..........................   108
         21.    Subsidiaries of the Corporation........................   109
         23.    Consent of Experts.....................................   115
         24.    Powers of Attorney.....................................   116

______________________
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

Stockholders may obtain a copy of any Exhibit, Item 14(c), none of which 
are contained herein, upon payment of a reasonable fee, by writing 
Norwest Corporation, Office of the Secretary, Norwest Center, Sixth and 
Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479-1026.




SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on 
the 22nd day of February 1994.

Norwest Corporation
(Registrant)

By  /s/RICHARD M. KOVACEVICH
    Richard M. Kovacevich
    President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed on the 22nd day of February, 1994, by the 
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities 
indicated.

By  /s/JOHN T. THORNTON
    John T. Thornton
    Executive Vice President and
      Chief Financial Officer
    (Principal Financial Officer)

By  /s/MICHAEL A. GRAF
    Michael A. Graf
    Senior Vice President and Controller
    (Principal Accounting Officer)

The Directors of Norwest Corporation listed below have duly executed 
powers of attorney empowering William A. Hodder to sign this document on 
their behalf.

David A. Christensen                  Richard S. Levitt
Pierson M. Grieve                     Richard D. McCormick
Charles M. Harper                     Cynthia H. Milligan
N. Berne Hart                         John E. Pearson
George C. Howe                        Ian M. Rolland
Lloyd P. Johnson                      Stephen E. Watson
Reatha Clark King                     Michael W. Wright
Richard M. Kovacevich                 

By  /s/WILLIAM A. HODDER
    William A. Hodder
    Director and Attorney-in-Fact
    February 22, 1994




                                                                     Appendix



                      NORWEST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                    Management's Discussion and Analysis of
           Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Financial
                  Statements, Report of Independent Auditors
                         and Selected Financial Data

                      Forming a Part of the Annual Report
                             on Form 10-K for the
                         Year Ended December 31, 1993



                                   Contents

                                                            Page

Financial Review .........................................    17

Financial Statements .....................................    36

Independent Auditors' Report .............................    84

Management's Report ......................................    85

Six-Year Consolidated Financial Summary ..................    86

Consolidated Average Balance Sheets 
and Related Yields and Rates .............................    87

Quarterly Condensed Consolidated Financial Information....    92




FINANCIAL REVIEW

This financial review should be read with the consolidated financial 
statements and accompanying notes presented on pages 36 through 83 and 
other information presented on pages 86 through 93.

EARNINGS PERFORMANCE

Norwest Corporation (the "corporation") reported record net income of 
$653.6 million in 1993, an increase of 79.5 percent over earnings of 
$364.1 million in 1992 and 63.0 percent over the $400.9 million earned in 
1991.  Net income per common share was $2.13 in 1993, compared with $1.16 
in 1992 and $1.34 in 1991, an increase of 84.4 percent and 59.3 percent, 
respectively.  Return on common equity was 20.9 percent and return on 
assets was 1.38 percent for 1993, compared with 12.4 percent and 0.85 
percent in 1992, respectively, and 15.5 percent and 0.99 percent in 1991, 
respectively.

The 1992 results include a one-time special charge of $76.0 million after 
tax, or 26 cents per common share, related to the corporation's early 
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, 
"Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" 
(FAS 106).  Excluding the cumulative effect of the change in accounting 
for postretirement medical benefits, 1992 net income was $440.1 million, 
or $1.42 per common share, return on common equity was 15.2 percent and 
return on assets was 1.03 percent.

Net income per common share amounts for periods prior to 1993 have been 
restated to reflect the two-for-one split of the outstanding shares of 
common stock of the corporation effected in the form of a 100 percent 
stock dividend distributed on June 28, 1993. 

The corporation's results for periods prior to 1993 have been restated to 
include the results of Lincoln Financial Corporation (Lincoln) which was 
acquired by the corporation effective February 9, 1993 and has been 
accounted for using the pooling of interest method of accounting. 
Included in 1992 earnings are Lincoln's $60.0 million of additional 
provision for credit losses for the purpose of conforming Lincoln's 
credit loss practices and policies to those of the corporation and $33.5 
million of merger and transition related expenses and restructuring 
costs, together totaling $93.5 million before income taxes.




Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED INCOME SUMMARY                                       





NM - Not meaningful




ORGANIZATIONAL EARNINGS

BANKING
The Banking Group reported record earnings of $397.2 million in 1993, 
74.5 percent over 1992 earnings of $227.7 million and 61.5 percent over 
1991 earnings of $246.0 million. Included in the 1992 Banking Group 
results are Lincoln's additional provision for credit losses, merger and 
transition related expenses and restructuring costs totaling $93.5 
million before income taxes.  The Banking Group earnings increases over 
1992 and 1991 reflect 7.0 percent and 16.3 percent growth in tax-
equivalent net interest income, respectively, primarily due to increases 
in average earning assets and net interest margin, and 80.5 percent and 
87.5 percent decreases in the provision for credit losses, respectively, 
reflecting continued decreases in net credit losses and non-performing 
assets. Non-interest income in the Banking Group incresed 11.4 percent 
over 1992 and 24.5 percent over 1991 primarily due to continued increases 
in trust fee income, service charges on deposits and insurance revenues.  
The Banking Group non-interest expense increases of 5.8 percent and 25.7 
percent over 1992 and 1991, respectively, are primarily a result of 
acquisition related charges, writedowns of excess facilities and other 
assets, and increased charitable contributions.

The venture capital subsidiaries realized $59.5 million of net gains in 
1993, compared with net gains of $29.7 million in 1992 and net losses of 
$4.6 million in 1991.  Virtually all appreciated securities included in 
the $59.5 million venture capital gains were contributed to the Norwest 
Foundation. Contribution amounts of these appreciated securities, which 
included cost basis, were $69.8 million in 1993. Net unrealized 
appreciation in the venture capital investment portfolio was $118.3 
million at December 31, 1993, an increase of 26.1 percent over December 
31, 1992.

MORTGAGE BANKING
Mortgage banking operations earned $56.3 million in 1993, a 5.5 percent 
increase over 1992 earnings of $53.4 million, and 79.4 percent over 1991 
earnings of $31.4 million.  The increase in earnings reflects a 60.2 
percent and 155.7 percent increase in residential mortgage fundings over 
1992 and 1991, respectively.  Fundings were $33.7 billion in 1993, 
compared with $21.0 billion in 1992 and $13.2 billion in 1991.  
Approximately 55 percent of the 1993 fundings were due to new loan 
originations with refinancings accounting for approximately 45 percent.  
Net gains on the sale of mortgages was $140.5 million in 1993, compared 
with $19.8 million in 1992 and $13.0 million in 1991.  Net servicing 
retained during 1993 was $24.1 billion, compared with $13.0 billion in 
1992 and $4.2 billion in 1991.  The servicing portfolio increased to 
$45.7 billion at December 31, 1993, compared with $21.6 billion at 
December 31, 1992. In 1993, sales of servicing rights were $2,948 
million, under an obligation in a long-term contract, with gains on sales 
of $61.7 million compared with $7,213 million and $62.4 million, 
respectively, during 1992 and $9,047 million and $76.5 million, 
respectively, in 1991.

NORWEST FINANCIAL SERVICES
Norwest Financial Services, Inc. (Norwest Financial) reported record 
earnings of $200.1 million in 1993, a 25.9 percent increase over the 
$159.0 million earned in 1992, and a 62.0 percent increase over the 
$123.5 million earned in 1991.  The increases are primarily due to 
increases in tax-equivalent net interest income of 27.1 percent and 52.9 
percent, respectively, over 1992 and 1991.  The increase in tax-
equivalent net interest income was due to 17.8 percent and 26.0 percent 
increases in average finance receivables over 1992 and 1991, 
respectively, and an increase in net interest margin of 107 basis points 
over 1992 and 232 basis points over 1991. The increase in net interest 




margin reflects lower short-term borrowing rates and benefits from 
refinancing long-term debt at lower interest rates.  Norwest Financial's 
non-interest expenses increased 21.5 percent and 45.6 percent over 1992 
and 1991, respectively, primarily due to the acquisition of the consumer 
finance business of Trans Canada Credit Corporation Limited during the 
fourth quarter of 1992.

Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

ORGANIZATIONAL EARNINGS*

In millions

Year ended December 31          1993    1992     1991     1990     1989

Banking                       $397.2   227.7    246.0     33.0    189.6
Mortgage banking                56.3    53.4     31.4     17.0      5.8
Norwest Financial Services
  Inc., and subsidiaries       200.1   159.0    123.5    106.3     79.5
Consolidated income before
 cumulative effect of 
 a change in accounting 
 for postretirement
 medical benefits              653.6   440.1    400.9    156.3    274.9
Cumulative effect on
 years prior to December
 31, 1992 of a change
 in accounting for
 postretirement
 medical benefits                  -   (76.0)       -        -        - 
Net income                    $653.6   364.1    400.9    156.3    274.9

*  Earnings of the entities listed are impacted by intercompany revenues 
   and expenses, such as interest on borrowings from the parent company,
   corporate service fees and allocation of federal income taxes.


CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT ANALYSIS

NET INTEREST INCOME
Net interest income on a tax-equivalent basis is the difference between 
interest earned on assets and interest paid on liabilities, with 
adjustments made to present yields on tax-exempt assets as if such income 
was fully taxable.  Changes in the mix and volume of earning assets and 
interest-bearing liabilities, their related yields and overall interest 
rates have a major impact on earnings.  In 1993, tax-equivalent net 
interest income provided 61.0 percent of the corporation's net revenues, 
compared with 63.2 percent in 1992 and 63.9 percent in 1991.

Total tax-equivalent net interest income was $2,408.7 million in 1993, a 
13.9 percent increase over the $2,114.7 million reported in 1992.  Growth 
in tax-equivalent net interest income over 1992 was primarily due to an 
11.3 percent increase in average earning assets and a 13 basis point 
increase in net interest margin.  The increase in average earning assets 
is primarily due to an increase in average mortgages held for sale 
resulting from growth in residential mortgage fundings and an increase in 
average loans and leases, partially offset by a slight decrease in 
average total investment securities.   The 1992 increase of 16.0 percent 
over the $1,823.2 million reported in 1991 was due to a 5.9 percent 
increase in average earning assets and a 47 basis point increase in net



 
interest margin.  The increase in earning assets reflects increases in 
mortgages held for sale and increases in total investment securities. 
Non-accrual and restructured loans reduced net interest income by $12.3 
million in 1993, compared with $17.2 million in 1992 and $24.8 million in 
1991.  Detailed analysis of net interest income appear on pages 87, 88 
and 89.  

Net interest margin, the ratio of tax-equivalent net interest income 
divided by average earning assets, was 5.59 percent in 1993, compared 
with 5.46 percent in 1992 and 4.99 percent in 1991.  The increase over 
1992 reflects the downward repricing of core deposits, refinancing of 
long-term debt at lower interest rates and the repurchase of securitized 
credit card receivables, partially offset by lower yields on earning 
assets.  The 1992 increase over 1991 reflects the downward repricing of 
core deposits, the refinancing of long-term debt at lower interest rates 
and the issuance of approximately $412 million of preferred and common 
stock during 1991, partially offset by an increase in average mortgages 
held for sale and an increase in average total investment securities on 
which narrower spreads are earned. 

PROVISION FOR CREDIT LOSSES
The provision for credit losses reflects management's judgment of the 
cost associated with credit risk inherent in the loan and lease 
portfolio.  The consolidated provision for credit losses was $140.1 
million in 1993, a decrease of $126.6 million from 1992 and a decrease of 
$261.8 million from 1991.  The provision for credit losses was 0.56 
percent of average loans and leases in 1993, compared with 1.22 percent 
in 1992 and 1.87 percent in 1991.  The decrease from 1992 reflects the 
continued reduction in the corporation's net credit losses and 
non-performing assets which are down $89.6 million from December 31, 
1992.  Also, as previously discussed, the 1992 provision for credit 
losses includes $60.0 million in additional provisions for credit losses 
taken by Lincoln.  The 1992 decrease from 1991 reflects the reduction in 
the corporation's net charge-offs and non-performing assets.

Net credit losses for 1993 were $173.6 million, a decrease of $44.0 
million from 1992, and a decrease of $139.0 million from 1991.  Net 
credit losses as a percentage of average loans and leases were 0.70 
percent in 1993, compared with 1.00 percent in 1992 and 1.45 percent in 
1991.  The decrease in net credit losses in 1993 from 1992 reflects 
significantly lower commercial, consumer, construction and land 
development and real estate loan charge-offs resulting from lower levels 
of non-performing loans.  These decreases were partially offset by higher 
foreign loan charge-offs as a result of Norwest Financial's fourth 
quarter 1992 acquisition of the consumer finance business of Trans Canada 
Credit Corporation Limited and higher credit card charge-offs.  The 
decrease in 1992 from 1991 is primarily due to lower commercial and real 
estate loan charge-offs.

NON-INTEREST INCOME
Non-interest income is a significant source of the corporation's revenue, 
representing 39.0 percent of tax-equivalent net revenues in 1993, 
compared with 36.8 percent in 1992 and 36.1 percent in 1991.  
Consolidated non-interest income increased 25.5 percent in 1993 to 
$1,542.5 million, primarily due to increased mortgage banking revenues, 
venture capital gains and growth in various fee-based services, partially 
offset by a decrease in credit card fees, trading account gains and net 
gains on investment/mortgage-backed  securities available for sale. 
During 1993 securities held for investment with a total amortized cost of 
$29.5 million were sold since they had been called by the issuers, 
resulting in gains on sales of $0.1 million. Excluding 
investment/mortgage-backed securities gains, venture capital gains and 
gains on investment/mortgage-backed securities available for sale, 




non-interest income was up 26.1 percent from 1992 and 41.4 percent from 
1991. The growth in mortgage banking revenues reflects the continued 
growth in mortgage loan fundings and the servicing portfolio. Credit card 
revenues decreased $19.9 million from 1992 primarily due to the 
repurchase of $525 million of credit card receivables from the 
securitized credit card receivable trusts during 1993 and a reduction in 
the number of credit card accounts by 19,000 to 1,896,000 as of December 
31, 1993. The corporation expects to have repurchased the remaining $333 
million of credit card receivables from the securitized credit card 
receivable trusts by the end of the second quarter of 1994. Revenues on 
securitized credit card receivables are recorded in non-interest income 
rather than net interest income. Other non-interest income increased 
$43.0 million from 1992 primarily due to increases of $36.1 million in 
trading account securities gains and $9.9 million in gains on sales of 
student loans available for sale.

Consolidated non-interest income increased 19.2 percent in 1992 from 
1991, primarily due to growth in mortgage banking revenues, gains on 
sales of investment/mortgage backed securities available for sale, 
venture capital gains and growth in various fee-based services, partially 
offset by a decrease in credit card fees.  The 48.1 percent growth in 
mortgage banking revenues is due to the increase in mortgage fundings 
over 1991, partially offset by an 18.4 percent decrease in gains on sales 
of servicing rights.  The decrease in credit card fees is primarily due 
to the repurchase of $254 million of credit card receivables from the 
securitized credit card receivable trusts during 1992 and a reduction in 
the number of credit card accounts of 174,000 to 1,915,000 as of December 
31, 1992.

NON-INTEREST EXPENSES
Consolidated non-interest expenses increased 16.6 percent to $2,840.8 
million in 1993.  The increase is primarily due to increased salaries and 
benefits at both the mortgage banking operations, to support the large 
origination and servicing increases in that business, and at Norwest 
Financial due to its fourth quarter 1992 acquisition of the consumer 
finance business of Trans Canada Credit Corporation Limited, as well as 
increased salaries and benefits due to numerous acquisitions completed by 
the corporation during 1993. Excluding the growth in mortgage banking 
operations, Norwest Financial, businesses acquired during the year and 
the impact of the 1993 change in retirement plan assumptions, salaries 
and benefits expense increased 4.0 percent from 1992.  The increase in 
non-interest expenses also reflects the impact of shortening of 
depreciable lives on mainframe computers, capping the amortizable life of 
goodwill at 15 years, increased and accelerated amortization of other 
intangibles, writedowns of excess facilities and other assets, a $47.1 
million increase in charitable contributions and acquisition related 
charges.

Non-interest expenses increased $497.1 million in 1992 over 1991.  This 
increase is primarily attributable to increased salaries and benefits in 
the mortgage banking operations, reflective of large volume increases in 
originations and servicing, excess facility and other asset writedowns of 
approximately $82.0 million, writedowns of intangible assets of 
approximately $68.0 million, merger and transition related expenses and 
certain restructuring charges related to the Lincoln acquisition of 
approximately $33.5 million, a $19.3 million loss on prepayment of 
Norwest Financial debt and an $18.3 million increase in charitable 
contributions.

POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
In l992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of 
FInancial Accounting Standards No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for 
Postemployment Benefits" (FAS 112).  Beginning in 1994, FAS 112 requires 




employers to accrue the cost of postemployment benefits during the 
employees active service, if the amount of the benefits can be reasonably 
estimated and payment is probable.  Management believes the adoption of 
FAS 112 will not have a material effect on the consolidated financial 
statements of the corporation.  

INCOME TAXES
The corporation's income tax planning is based upon the goal of 
maximizing long-term, after-tax profitability.  Income tax expense is 
significantly impacted by the mix of taxable versus tax-exempt revenues 
from investment securities and the loan portfolio and the utilization of 
net operating loss carryforwards.  

In 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes", 
(FAS 109) effective January 1, 1993. The corporation adopted FAS 109 as 
of January 1, 1993, with no material impact on the corporation's 
consolidated financial statements. Prior to adoption of FAS 109, the 
corporation accounted for income taxes under Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 96.

The effective income tax rate was 30.3 percent in 1993, compared with 
24.5 percent in 1992 and 14.3 percent in 1991.  The increase in the 
effective tax rate in 1993 from 1992 is primarily due to the fact that in 
1993 there were no net operating loss tax benefits related to United 
Banks of Colorado, Inc's. 1990 net operating loss as compared with $31.2 
million of benefits in 1992. The increase in the effective tax rate in 
1992 from 1991 is primarily due to $31.2 million in net operating loss 
tax benefits in 1992 as compared with $49.3 million in 1991 related to 
United. For more information on income taxes see Footnote 12 on page 69.


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

EARNING ASSETS
At December 31, 1993, earning assets were $46.5 billion, compared with 
$42.4 billion at December 31, 1992.  This increase is primarily due to a 
$4.3 billion increase in loans and leases, and student loans and 
mortgages held for sale, including $2.6 billion of loans and leases 
acquired in acquisitions completed during 1993. This increase is 
partially offset by a $0.4 billion decrease in total investment 
securities. 


Average earnings assets were $43.1 billion in 1993, an increase of 11.3 
percent over 1992.  This increase is primarily due to a 14.4 percent 
increase in average loans and leases, and a 35.5 percent increase in 
mortgages held for sale due to increased residential mortgage fundings, 
partially offset by a 6.6 percent decrease in average total investment 
securities.

Leverage, the ratio of average assets to average stockholders' equity, 
was 14.2 times during 1993 versus 14.1 times during 1992.  This increase 
is due to a 10.7 percent increase in average assets, partially offset by 
a 9.6 percent increase in average stockholders' equity.

In 1993, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain 
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," which will be adopted by the 
corporation in the first quarter of 1994.  The Statement requires that 
investments classified as available for sale be reported at fair value 
with unrealized gains and losses reported, net of tax, as a separate 
component of stockholders' equity. The corporation currently accounts for



 
investments classified as available for sale using the lower of cost or 
market accounting method.  As of December 31, 1993, net unrealized gains 
related to investments and mortgage-backed securities available for sale 
were $482.7 million before income taxes.

In Footnote 16 to the consolidated financial statements on page 74 the 
corporation has disclosed the estimated fair values of all on and 
off-balance sheet financial instruments and certain non-financial 
instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards No. 107, "Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial 
Instruments".

As of December 31, 1993, the fair value of net financial instruments 
totaled $3.9 billion, an increase of $1.0 billion from December 31, 1992.  
This increase was primarily due to growth in mortgages held for sale and 
loans and leases, which were partially offset by reductions in investment 
securities, including securities available for sale.  During the same 
period, the  net fair value of certain non-financial instruments 
increased $1.2 billion to $7.1 billion as of December 31, 1993.  The fair 
value of the consumer finance network increased $0.8 billion.  The fair 
value of the mortgage servicing portfolio and the mortgage loan 
origination/wholesale network increased $0.4 billion in 1993 due to 
increases in the servicing portfolio, as previously discussed, and growth 
in the origination and wholesale network.  

As of December 31, 1992, the fair value of net financial instruments 
totaled $2.9 billion, an increase of $0.2 billion from December 31, 1991.  
This increase was primarily due to growth in mortgages held for sale and 
loans and leases, which were partially offset by reductions in investment 
securities and mortgage-backed securities, including securities available 
for sale.  During the same period, the net fair value of certain 
non-financial instruments increased $1.3  billion to $5.9 billion as of 
December 31, 1992.  The fair value of the consumer finance network 
increased $0.4 billion due to growth in accounts and a widened interest 
spread on such loans.  The fair value of the mortgage servicing portfolio 
and mortgage loan origination/wholesale network increased $0.6 billion in 
1992, due to increases in the servicing portfolio and growth in the 
origination and wholesale network.

CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT
The corporation manages exposure to credit risk through loan portfolio 
diversification by customer, product, industry and geography.  As a 
result, there is no undue concentration in any single sector.  Credit 
risk management also includes pricing loans to cover anticipated future 
credit losses, funding and servicing costs and to allow for a profit 
margin. Loans and leases by type appear in Footnote 5 on page 56.

As of December 31, 1993, the corporation's commercial real estate 
portfolio of loans to investors, developers and builders, including 
construction and land development loans (development loans), was $1,632.3 
million, of which $40.0 million or 2.5 percent, were non-performing, 
compared with $1,559.0 million at December 31, 1992, of which $76.4 
million, or 4.9 percent, were non-performing.  These loans do not include 
loans on owner-occupied real estate which the corporation views as having 
the same general credit risk as commerical loans.  

Development loans represent 5.8 percent of the corporation's total loan 
portfolio.  The total number of development loans is approximately 4,000 
with an average loan size of approximately  $0.3 million.  The largest 
development loan is $16.4 million.  The industry composition of 
development loans consists of office/warehouse (23 percent), retail (23 
percent), residential (32 percent) and other (22 percent).




The construction and commercial real estate loan problems of many 
regional bank holding companies in some other parts of the United States 
have not been as severe in the Midwest.  Geograpically, over 96 percent 
of the development loan portfolio is within the thirteen state area where 
the corporation has its principal banking franchise.  Approximately 43 
percent of the total portfolio is secured by property located in the 
Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota area and Colorado.  Within the 13 state 
area, the Minneapolis/St. Paul area has the largest concentration of 
developer activity.  As noted above, the corporation has spread its 
construction and commercial real estate loans among numerous borrowers 
and has limited the size of loans retained on its books.  Accordingly, 
the corporation believes its exposure to future commercial real estate 
loan losses is limited.

The corporation is not aware of any loans classified for regulatory 
purposes at December 31, 1993, that are expected to have a material 
impact on the corporation's future operating results, liquidity or 
capital resources.  The corporation is not aware of any material credits 
about which there is serious doubt as to the ability of borrowers to 
comply with the loan repayment terms.  There are no material commitments 
to lend additional funds to customers whose loans were classified as non-
accrual or restructured at December 31, 1993.

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
At December 31, 1993, the allowance for credit losses was $744.9 million, 
or 2.76 percent of loans and leases outstanding, compared with $742.7 
million or 3.07 percent at December 31, 1992.  The ratio of the allowance 
for credit losses to the total non-performaning assets and 90-day past 
due loans and leases was 260.9 percent at December 31, 1993, compared 
with 199.3 percent at December 31, 1992.

Although it is impossible for any lender to predict future credit losses 
with complete accuracy, management monitors the allowance for credit 
losses with the intent to provide for all losses that can reasonably be 
anticipated based on current conditions.  The corporation maintains the 
allowance for credit losses as a general allowance available to cover 
future credit losses within the entire loan and lease portfolio and other 
credit-related risks.  However, management has prepared an allocation of 
the allowance based on its views of risk characteristics of the 
portfolio.  This allocation of the allowance for credit losses does not 
represent the total amount available for actual future credit losses in 
any single category nor does it prohibit future credit losses from being 
absorbed by portions of the allowance allocated to other categories or by 
the unallocated portion.  The table on page 90 presents the allocation of 
the allowance for credit losses to major categories of loans.

NON-ACCRUAL, RESTRUCTURED AND PAST DUE LOANS
AND LEASES AND OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED
The table on page 27 presents data on the corporation's non-accrual, 
restructured and 90-day past due loans and leases and other real estate 
owned.  Generally, the accrual of interest on a loan or a lease is 
suspended when the credit becomes 90 days past due unless fully secured 
and in the process of collection.  A restructured loan is generally a 
loan that is accruing interest, but on which concessions in terms have 
been made as a result of deterioration in the borrower's financial 
condition.

Non-performing assets, including non-accrual, restructured and other real 
estate owned, and 90-day past due loans and leases, total $285.5 million, 
or 0.6 percent of total assets, at December 31, 1993, compared with 
$372.7 million, or 0.8 percent of total assets at December 31, 1992.  
This decline is due to decreases in real estate and commercial non-
accrual loans of $29.6 million and $23.5 million, respectively, and a 




$36.2 million decrease in other real estate owned, partially offset by a 
$5.0 million increase in restructured loans.  The reduction in primary 
earnings per share due to total non-accrual and restructured loans was 
four cents in 1993, compared with eight cents in 1992 and 12 cents in 
1991.

In 1993, the Financial Acounting Standards Board issued Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for 
Imparement of a Loan,"(FAS 114) which must be adopted for the 
corporation's 1995 financial statements.  It requires that impared loans, 
as defined within FAS 114, be measured based on the present value of 
expected future cash flow discounted at the loan's effective rate, at the 
loan's market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is 
collateral dependent.  The adoption of FAS 114 is not expected to have a 
material effect on the corporation's consolidated financial statements.




Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

NON-ACCRUAL, RESTRUCTURED AND PAST DUE LOANS 
AND OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED



*Excludes non-accrual and restructured loans and leases.




FUNDING SOURCES

INTEREST BEARING-LIABILITIES
At December 31, 1993, interest-bearing liabilities totaled $36.8 billion, 
an increase of $1.8 billion over December 31, 1992.  The increase is 
principally due to a $2.3 billion increase in interest bearing deposits 
primarily as a result of the Citibank (Arizona) and Columbia Savings 
acquisitions and a $2.3 billion increase in long-term debt, partially 
offset by a $2.9 billion decrease in short-term borrowings.

Average interest-bearing liabilities were $35.7 billion in 1993, compared 
with $32.9 billion in 1992, primarily due to a 3.5 percent increase in 
average interest bearing deposits, a 3.7 percent increase in short-term 
borrowings and a 44.7 percent increase in average long-term debt.

CORE DEPOSITS
In the corporation's banking subsidiaries, demand deposits, regular 
savings and NOW accounts, money market checking and savings accounts and 
consumer savings certificates provide a stable source of low-cost 
funding.  These funds accounted for approximately 61 percent of the 
corporation's total funding sources during 1993 and approximately 63 
percent in 1992. This is a high level of core deposits by industry 
standards.  In the corporation's Banking Group, where these funds are 
utilized, average core deposits accounted for approximately 64 percent of 
total funding sources during 1993 compared with 67 percent in 1992.

PURCHASED DEPOSITS
In addition to core deposits, purchased deposits are an important source 
of funding for the corporation's banking subsidiaries.  Purchased 
deposits include certificates of deposit with denominations of more than 
$100,000 and foreign time deposits.  Purchased deposits represented 
approximately 4 percent of the corporation's total funding sources in 
1993 and 1992.  

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
Short-term borrowings include federal funds purchased, securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase and commercial paper issued by the 
corporation and Norwest Financial.  Commercial paper is used by the 
corporation to fund the short-term needs of its subsidiaries, consisting 
primarily of funding of Norwest Mortgage's inventory of mortgages held 
for sale which are typically held for 60 to 90 days.  Norwest Financial 
utilizes funds generated through its own commercial paper sales program 
to fund approximately 23 percent of its average earnings assets in 1993 
compared with 22 percent in 1992. 

On January 6, 1994, Standard & Poor's upgraded the corporation's 
commercial paper rate from A1 to A1+. In its initial rating of the 
corporation and Norwest Financial, Fitch Investors Service, Inc. assigned 
an F-1+ to both the corporation's and Norwest Financial's commercial 
paper. The corporation's commercial paper/short-term debt is rated A1+, 
Duff 1+, TBW-1, and P1 by IBCA, Duff & Phelps, Thomson BankWatch, and 
Moody's, respectively. Norwest Financial's commercial paper/short-term 
debt is also rated A1+, Duff 1+, TBW-1 and P1 by Standard & Poor's, Duff 
& Phelps, Thomson BankWatch and Moody's, respectively. On average, total 
short-term borrowings represented approximately 15 percent of the 
corporation's total funding sources during 1993 and approximately 17 
percent during 1992.
 
At December 31, 1993, the corporation had available lines of credit 
totaling $1,172.7 million, including lines of credit totaling $972.7 




million at Norwest Financial.  These financing arrangements require the 
maintenance of compensating balances or payment of fees, which are not 
material.

LONG-TERM DEBT
Long-term debt represents an important funding source for the corporation 
and for Norwest Financial.  Total long-term debt represented 
approximately 13 percent of the corporation's consolidated average 
funding sources during 1993 compared with approximately 10 percent in 
1992. The corporation utilizes long-term debt primarily to meet the 
long-term funding requirements of its subsidiaries, with outstandings of 
$4,060.7 million as of December 31, 1993 compared with $2,083.7 million 
as of December 31, 1992. Five banking subsidiaries are members of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank allowing them to receive long-term advances 
secured by certain loans and investment securities. As of December 31, 
1993, these banking subsidiaries had advances outstanding totaling 
$2,446.6 million, an increase of $1,027.5 million from December 31, 1992. 
Long-term debt plays an even more significant role at Norwest Financial, 
which utilizes this source of financing to fund approximately 55 percent 
of its average earning assets.  At December 31, 1993, Norwest Financial's 
long-term debt outstanding was $2,741.7 million. The table on page 59 
presents the corporation's outstanding consolidated long-term debt as of 
December 31, 1993 and 1992. 

On January 6, 1994, Standard & Poor's upgraded the corporation's senior 
debt rating from A+ to AA-, subordinated debt rating from A to A+ and 
preferred stock rating from A- to A. In addition, on November 3, 1993, 
Thomson BankWatch upgraded the corporation's senior debt rating from AA 
to AA+, subordinated debt rating from AA- to AA and preferred stock 
rating from A+ to AA-. In its initial rating of Norwest Financial, 
Thomson BankWatch assigned a senior debt rating of AA+ and a subordinated 
debt rating of AA and also assigned Norwest Financial Thomson BankWatch's 
highest issuer rating, which is A. Also in November 1993, Fitch Investors 
Service, Inc., in its initial rating of the corporation's debt, assigned 
a shelf registration and senior debt rating of AA, a subordinated debt 
rating of AA- and a preferred stock rating of A+. Duff & Phelps, IBCA and 
Moody's have currently rated the corporation's senior debt AA-, AA- and 
A1, respectively. Norwest Financial's senior debt is currently rated AA+ 
by Thomson BankWatch and Fitch Investors Service, Inc., AA by Duff & 
Phelps, AA- by Standard & Poor's and Aa3 by Moody's. In early 1993, 
Thomson BankWatch assigned their highest issuer rating to the 
corporation, an A rating, which is shared by only four others among the 
35 largest domestic bank holding companies, Banc One Corporation, 
SunTrust Banks, Inc., J.P.Morgan & Co. Incorporated and Wachovia 
Corporation.

ASSET AND LIABILITY MANAGEMENT
The goal of the asset and liability management process is to manage the 
structure of the balance sheet to provide the maximum level of net 
interest income while maintaining acceptable levels of interest 
sensitivity risk (as defined below) and liquidity.  The focal point of 
this process is the corporate Asset and Liability Management Committee 
(ALCO).  This committee which meets weekly, forms policies governing 
investments, funding sources, off-balance sheet commitments, overall 
interest sensitivity risk and liquidity.  These policies form the 
framework for management of the asset and liability process at the 
corporate, regional and affiliate levels, and compliance with such 
policies is monitored at regular intervals by ALCO.

DEFINITION OF INTEREST SENSITIVITY RISK
Interest sensitivity risk is the risk that future changes in interest 
rates will reduce net interest income or the market value of the 
corporation's balance sheet.  There are two basic ways of defining 
interest rate risk in the financial services industry;  the risk to 




reported earnings, sometimes referred to as the accounting perspective, 
and the risk to the market value of the balance sheet, sometimes referred 
to as the economic perspective. 

The accounting perspective focuses on the risk to reported net income 
over a particular time frame.  Differences in the timing of interest rate 
repricing  (repricing or "gap" risk), changing market rate relationships 
(basis risk) and option positions determine the exposure of net income to 
changes in interest rates.

The economic perspective focuses on the market value of the corporation's 
balance sheet, the net of which is referred to as the market value of 
balance sheet equity.  The sensitivity of the market value of balance 
sheet equity to changes in interest rates is an indicator of the level of 
interest rate risk inherent in an institution's current position and an 
indicator of longer horizon earnings trends.  Assessing interest rate 
risk from the economic perspective focuses on the risk to net worth 
arising from all repricing mismatches (gaps) and other interest rate 
sensitive positions, such as options, across the full maturity spectrum.

Both perspectives have their advantages and disadvantages.  The 
corporation believes that the two perspectives are complementary, and 
should be used together to provide a more complete picture of interest 
rate risk than would be provided by either perspective alone.

MEASUREMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
Measurement of interest rate risk from the accounting perspective has 
traditionally taken the form of the gap report, which represents the 
difference between assets and liabilities that reprice in a given time 
period.  While providing a rough measure of rate risk, the gap report has 
a number of drawbacks, including the fact that it is a static (i.e. 
point-in-time) measurement, it does not capture basis risk, and it does 
not capture risk that varies either asymmetrically or non-proportionately 
with rate movements, such as option risk.

Because of the drawbacks of gap reports, the corporation uses a 
simulation model as its primary method of measuring earnings risk.  The 
simulation model, because of its dynamic nature, can capture the effects 
of future balance sheet trends, different patterns of rate movements, and 
changing relatonships between rates (basis risk).  In addition, it can 
capture the effects of embedded option risk by taking into account the 
effects of interest rate caps and floors, and varying the level of 
prepayment rates on assets as a function of interest rates.  An example 
of the difference between the two methods of measurement was the interest 
rate floors that the corporation purchased in prior years to hedge 
securities with prepayment options against a decline in rates.  The 
effect of these floors was easy to measure with a simulation model, but 
difficult to show in a gap report.  Another example is the tendency of 
money market deposit rates to lag substantially behind changes in market 
interest rates.  The lag relationship may depend on a number of factors, 
such as the direction and speed of rate of movements and the absolute 
level of rates.  This relationship is difficult to show in a gap report, 
but easy to capture in a simulation model.  

Measurement of interest rate risk from the economic perspective is 
accomplished with a market valuation model.  The market value of each 
asset and liability is calculated by computing the present value of all 
cash flows generated by it.  In each case the cash flows are discounted 
by a market interest rate chosen to reflect as closely as possible the 
characteristics of the given asset or liability.




MANAGEMENT OF INTEREST RATE RISK
The managment of interest rate risk is governed by an interest 
sensitivity policy.  The policy places a limit on the amount of earnings 
that may be put at risk to rate movements.  While this determines the 
limits of the corporation's sensitivity position, the position that is 
maintained at any given time is a function of balance sheet trends, asset 
opportunities, and interest rate expectations.  The sensitivity position 
at any given time is normally well within the policy limits, which is the 
case with the current position.

The simulation model is used to determine the one year and three year gap 
levels which correspond to the limit in which the corporation has placed 
earnings at risk to interest rate movement, and these gap levels 
constitute the limits within which the corporation will manage its 
interest sensitivity position.  Thus, gap reports are used, in 
conjunction with the simulation model, to monitor rate risk, but gaps are 
not used as the primary measure of rate risk.

With regard to market valuation risk, the market valuation model is used 
to measure the sensitivity of the market value of equity to a wide range 
of interest rate changes.  These results are reviewed with ALCO on a 
quarterly basis.  No specific policy limits have yet been set on market 
valuation risk.  The process of modeling market valuation risk is new to 
the financial services 
industry, and no standards exist within the industry for structuring the 
modeling process or using the results to define policy limits.  The 
process of developing an understanding of all the issues raised in the 
measurement and interpretation of this risk is still evolving.

CHANGES IN INTEREST SENSITIVITY
The table on page 32 presents the corporation's interest sensitivity gaps 
for December, 1993.  The cumulative gap within one year was positive 
$2,126 million, or 4.2 percent of assets.  This compares with a one year 
gap of negative $985 million, or 2.2 percent of assets, in December, 
1992.  The cumulative gap within three years was positive $1,915 million, 
or 3.7 percent of assets, in December 1993, compared to negative $1,283 
million, or 2.8    percent of assets, in December, 1992. The movement of 
the gap from negative to a positive was due to a shift in the investment 
portfolio from fixed rate to variable rate securities, as well as 
increases in retail deposits and demand deposits, part of which have 
fixed rate sensitivity.  The effect of the current interest sensitivity 
position is to effectively eliminate vulnerability of the corporation's 
earnings to rising interest rates while allowing it to benefit from 
stable rates.  The current sensitivity position is well within the risk 
limits set by the corporation's interest sensitivity policy.




Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY


* [Assets - (liabilities + equity) + swaps and options]  
  The gap includes the effect of off-balance sheet instruments on the
  corporation's interest sensitity, with the exception of purchased interest
  rate floors, whose downside risk is limited.


LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT
Liquidity management involves planning to meet anticipated funding needs 
at a reasonable cost, as well as contingency plans to meet unanticipated 
funding needs or a loss of funding sources.  Liquidity management for the 
corporation is governed by policies formulated and monitored by ALCO, 
which take into account the marketability of assets, the sources and 
stability of funding, and the level of unfunded commitments.  While each 
affiliate is responsible for managing its own liquidity position within 
overall guidelines, ALCO monitors the overall liquidity position.




The corporation has a significant liquidity reserve in its 
investment/mortgage-backed securities portfolio:  approximately 88 
percent of the $11.3 billion portfolio consists of Treasury or federal 
agency securities.  These securities are highly marketable and currently 
have a market value well in excess of book value.  Several other factors 
provide a favorable liquidity position for the corporation compared with 
most large bank holding companies, including the large amount of funding 
that comes from consumer deposits, which are a more stable source of 
funding than purchased funds, as well as the geographic diversity of the 
customer base.

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The corporation believes that a strong capital position is vital to 
continued profitability and to promote depositor and investor confidence.  
The corporation's consolidated capital levels are a result of its capital 
policy which establishes guidelines for each subsidiary based on industry 
standards, regulatory requirements, perceived risk of the various 
businesses, and future growth opportunities.  The corporation requires 
its bank affiliates to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums 
for Tier 1 capital, total capital (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) to risk-based 
assets and leverage ratios.  The primary source of equity capital 
available for the affiliates is earnings, with other forms of capital 
available from the corporation as needed.  Earnings above levels required 
to meet capital policy requirements are paid to the corporation in the 
form of dividends and are used to support capital needs of other 
affiliates, the payment of corporate dividends or to reduce the 
corporation's borrowings.

Through the implementation of its capital policies, the corporation has 
achieved a strong capital position.  The corporation's Tier 1 capital 
ratio at December 31, 1993 was 9.84 percent and its total capital to 
risk-based assets  ratio was 12.60 percent, compared with 10.03 percent 
and 12.85 percent at December 31, 1992, respectively. The corporation's 
leverage ratio was 6.60 percent at December 31, 1993, compared with 6.76 
percent at December 31, 1992. These ratios compare favorably to the 
regulatory minimums of 4.0 percent for Tier 1, 8.0 percent for total 
capital to risk-based assets, and 3.0 percent for leverage ratio.  

The corporation's common equity capital continued to grow in 1993.  
Common stockholders' equity increased to $3.2 billion as of December 31, 
1993, a 15.3 percent increase over year-end 1992.  The corporation's 
internal capital growth rate (ICGR) in 1993 was 14.7 percent.  The ICGR 
represents the rate at which the corporation's average common equity grew 
as a result of earnings retained (net income less dividends paid).

Since 1986 the corporation has repurchased common stock in the open 
market in a systematic pattern to meet the common stock issuance 
requirements of the corporation's Dividend Reinvestment Plan, the 
Savings-Investment Plans, the 1985 Long Term Incentive Compensation Plan, 
and other stock issuance requirements other than acquisitions accounted 
for as a pooling of interests. In January, 1994, the corporation's board 
of directors authorized additional purchases, at management's discretion, 
of 8,000,000 shares of the corporation's common stock, bringing the total 
common stock purchase authority to 12,200,000 shares.

In 1992, the corporation stated its intention to engage in open market or 
privately negotiated purchases of depository shares representing its 
10.24% Cumulative Preferred Stock and its Cumulative Convertible 
Preferred Stock, Series B. The corporation has not established any 
specific objectives for the amount of the depository shares that it may 
repurchase. In 1993, the corporation repurchased 25,800 depository shares 




(representing 6,450 shares of stock), or 0.6 percent of total outstanding 
shares of the 10.24% Cumulative Preferred Stock. Total depository shares 
repurchased since 1992 include 75,000, or 1.6 percent of total 
outstanding shares, and 25,000, or 0.5 percent of total outstanding 
shares, of the 10.24% Cumulative Preferred Stock and Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B, respectively. 

In the second quarter of 1993, the corporation increased the quarterly 
cash dividend paid to common stockholders form 14.5 cents per share to 
16.5 cents per share.  This represents a 13.8 percent increase in the 
quarterly dividend rate and reflects the corporation's continuing record 
of strong earnings performance and the corporation's policy of 
maintaining the dividend payout ratio in a range of 30 to 35 percent.  
Also during the second quarter 1993, the corporation declared a two-for-
one stock split in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend payable June 
28, 1993 to holders of record as of June 4, 1993. In January 1994, the 
corporation increased its dividend 12.1 percent to 18.5 cents per common 
share.

ACQUISITIONS
The corporation regularly explores opportunities for acquisitions of 
financial institutions and related businesses. Generally, management of 
the corporation does not make a public announcement about an acquisition 
opportunity until a definitive agreement has been signed.

On January 14, 1994, the corporation completed its acquisition of First 
United Bank Group, Inc. (First United), a multibank holding company 
headquartered in Albuquerque, New Mexico, with total assets of $3.9 
billion. The corporation issued 17,784,916 shares of its common stock in 
connection with the acquisition. The acquisition will be accounted for 
using the pooling of interests method.

On January 1, 1994, the corporation completed its acquisition of St. 
Cloud National Bank & Trust Co., a $119 million bank, and on January 6, 
1994, closed on St. Cloud Metropolitan Agency, Inc., an insurance agency 
and issued 1,105,820 and 32,969 common shares, respectively.

On December 10, 1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of Winner 
Banshares, Inc., a $99 million bank holding company headquartered in 
Winner, South Dakota and issued 530,737 common shares. On October 29, 
1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of FirstAmerican Bank, 
N.A., a $47.6 million bank, located in Colorado Springs, Colorado. On 
October 7, 1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of Ralston 
Bancshares, Inc., a $101.1 million bank holding company headquartered in 
Ralston, Nebraska, and issued 548,981 common shares. October 1, 1993, the 
corporation completed its acquisition of M & D Holding Company, a $57.1 
million bank holding company headquartered in Spring Lake Park, 
Minnesota, and issued 536,084 common shares. On September 10, 1993, 
Norwest Bank Denver, N.A., a banking subsidiary of the corporation, 
completed its acquisition of $1.1 billion in assets of the Columbia 
Savings division of First Nationwide Bank, a Federal Savings Bank.  On 
September 1, 1993, Norwest Bank Arizona, N.A., a subsidiary of the 
corporation, completed its acquisition of the $2.1 billion banking 
business of Citibank (Arizona), a subsidiary of Citicorp. On April 1, 
1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of Financial Concepts 
Bancorp, Inc., a $175.5 million bank holding company headquartered in 
Green Bay Wisconsin, and issued 847,416 common shares. On February 1, 
1993, the corporation completed its acquisitions of Merchants & Miners 
Bancshares, Inc., a $57 million bank holding company headquartered in 
Hibbing, Minnesota, and BORIS Systems, Inc., a $6 million data 
processing/transmission service, headquartered in East Lansing, Michigan, 
which provides services to more than 100 boards of realtors located 
throughout the United States, and issued 343,050 and 691,210 common



 
shares, respectively. On January 8, 1993, the corporation completed its 
acquisition of Rocky Mountain Bankshares, Inc., a $105 million bank 
holding company with a bank in Aspen, Colorado, and issued 557,084 common 
shares.

The acquisitions of St. Cloud National Bank & Trust Co., Winner 
Banshares, Inc., Ralston Bancshares, Inc. and Financial Concepts Bancorp, 
Inc. were accounted for using the pooling of interests method of 
accounting; however, the financial results of the corporation have not 
been restated because the effect of these acquisitions on the 
corporation's financial statements was not material. The acquisitions of 
St. Cloud Metropolitan Agency, Inc., FirstAmerican, N.A., M & D Holding 
Company, Columbia Savings, Citibank (Arizona), Merchants & Miners 
Bancshares, Inc., BORIS Systems, Inc. and Rocky Mountain Bankshares, Inc. 
were accounted for using the purchase method.

On February 9, 1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of Lincoln 
Financial Corporation (Lincoln), a $2.0 billion bank holding company 
headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The corporation issued 8,529,242 
shares of its common stock in connection with the acquisition. The 
acquisition was accounted for using the pooling of interests method of 
accounting and, accordingly, the corporation's financial statements have 
been restated for all periods prior to the acquisition to include the 
accounts and operations of Lincoln.

As of January 19, 1994, the corporation had eight other pending 
acquisitions with total assets of approximately $1.3 billion. The 
corporation expects to issue approximately 10.4 million common shares 
upon completion of these acquisitions. These acquisitions, subject to 
approval by the regulatory agencies, are expected to be completed during 
1994 and are not significant to the financial statements of the 
corporation, either individually or in the aggregate.





Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

In millions, except shares


See Notes to consolidated financial statements.


            

Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

In millions, except per share amounts


(CONTINUED ON PAGE 38)




Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (CONTINUED FROM PAGE 37)

In millions, except per share amounts


See notes to consolidated financial statements




Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

In millions


(CONTINUED ON PAGE 40)




Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED FROM PAGE 39)

In millions


(CONTINUED ON PAGE 41)





Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED FROM PAGE 40)

In millions


See notes to consolidated financial statements.




Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


(CONTINUED ON PAGE 43)





Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED FROM PAGE 42)


See notes to consolidated financial statements.





NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Norwest Corporation (the "corporation") is a regional bank holding 
company organized in 1929 and registered under the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended. The corporation is a diversified financial 
services organization which operates through subsidiaries engaged in 
banking and related businesses. The corporation provides retail, 
commercial, and corporate banking services to its customers through banks 
located in Arizona, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, 
Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, Texas, 
Wisconsin and Wyoming. The corporation also owns subsidiaries engaged in  
various businesses related to banking, principally mortgage banking, 
equipment leasing, agricultural finance, commercial finance,  consumer 
finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance, computer 
and data processing services, trust services and venture capital 
investments.

The accounting and reporting policies of the corporation and its 
subsidiaries conform to generally accepted accounting principles and 
general practices within the financial services industry.  The more 
significant accounting policies are summarized below.

CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the 
corporation and all subsidiaries.  Significant intercompany accounts and 
transactions have been eliminated.  

CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING FOR POSTRETIREMENT MEDICAL BENEFITS
Effective January 1, 1992, the corporation adopted Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement 
Benefits Other Than Pensions" (FAS 106).  FAS 106 requires employers to 
accrue the cost of retiree health care benefits and the cost of all other 
postretirement benefits other than pensions during the employees' active 
service.  In prior years, this expense was recognized when benefits were 
paid.  The cumulative liability for these expenses for years prior to 
1992 of $76.0 million after tax, or $0.26 per common share, was 
recognized as a cumulative effect of accounting change as of January 1, 
1992.  As a result of applying the new method of accounting for 
postretirement medical benefits, medical benefits expense increased $9.5 
million in 1992.  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, the 
corporation considers cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits 
with banks and federal funds sold and resale agreements to be cash 
equivalents.

Cash paid for interest and income taxes for the years ended December 31 
was:

In millions                     1993       1992       1991

Interest                    $1,395.4    1,550.3    2,049.2
Income taxes                   216.1      196.7       52.4

Loans transferred to other real estate owned totaled $66.8 million in 
1993, $104.5 million in 1992, and $113.3 million in 1991.  Investment and 
mortgage-backed securities of $13,878.0 million and student loans of 
$1,330.3 million were transferred to available for sale in 1992. During 




1993 and 1992, the corporation issued 2,127,428 and 899,972 shares of 
common stock, respectively, in connection with acquisitions accounted for 
using the purchase method.

SECURITIES
Investment and mortgage-backed securities which the corporation intends 
to hold until maturity are stated at cost, adjusted for amorization of 
premiums and accretion of discounts using a method that approximates 
level yield.  Investment and mortgage-backed securities which the 
corporation intends to hold for indefinite periods of time, including 
securities that management intends to use as part of its asset/liability 
strategy, or that may be sold in response to changes in interest rates, 
changes in prepayment risk, securities on which call options have been 
written, the need to increase regulatory capital or similar factors, are 
classified as available for sale.  Securities available for sale are 
stated at the lower of aggregate cost or market value.  Investment and 
mortgage-backed securities are transferred to securities available for 
sale at their respective carrying value.  Gains and losses on the sales 
of  investment and mortgage-backed securities are computed by the 
specific identification method.

Trading account securities are purchased with the intent to earn a profit 
by trading or selling the security.  These securities are stated at 
market value.  Adjustments to the carrying value are reported in other 
non-interest income.

Securities held by the venture capital subsidiaries are included in 
investment securities available for sale and are stated at the lower of 
aggregate cost or market value.  Gains and losses on the sales of such 
securities are computed on a specific identification basis.

LOANS AND LEASES
Loans are stated at their principal amount.  Interest income is 
recognized on an accrual basis except when a loan has been past due for 
90 days, unless such loan is in the process of collection and, in 
management's opinion, is fully secured.  When a loan is placed on non-
accrual status, uncollected interest accrued in prior years is charged 
against the allowance for credit losses.  A loan is returned to accrual 
status when principal and interest are no longer past due and 
collectibility is no longer doubtful.

Restructured loans are those on which concessions in terms have been made 
as a result of deterioration in a borrower's financial condition.  
Interest on these loans is accrued at the new terms.

Lease financing assets include aggregate lease rentals, net of related 
unearned income, which includes deferred investment tax credits, and 
related nonrecourse debt.  Leasing income is recognized as a constant 
percentage of outstanding lease financing balances over the lease terms.

Unearned discount on consumer loans is recognized by either the interest 
method or methods for which results are not materially different from the 
interest method.

Loan origination fees and costs incurred to extend credit are deferred 
and amortized over the term of the loan and the loan commitment period as 
a yield adjustment.  Loan fees representing adjustments of interest rate 
yield are generally deferred and amortized into interest income over the 
term of the loan using the interest method.  Loan commitment fees are 
generally deferred and amortized into non-interest income on a straight-
line basis over the commitment period.

At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the corporation had $1,351.3 and $1,158.6 
million, respectively, of student loans available for sale because the 
corporation does not intend to hold these loans for the forseeable 
future.  Student loans available for sale are stated at the lower of



 
aggregate cost or market value.  Student loans were transferred to 
available for sale at their carrying value.

ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
The allowance for credit losses is based upon management's evaluation of 
a number of factors, including credit loss experience, risk analysis of 
loan portfolios, as well as current and expected economic conditions.

Charge-offs are loans or portions thereof evaluated as uncollectible.  
Loans made by the consumer finance subsidiaries, unless fully secured by 
real estate, are generally charged off when the loan is 90 days or more 
contractually delinquent and no payment has been received for 90 days.  
Credit card receivables are generally charged off when they become 180 
days past due or sooner upon receipt of a bankruptcy notice.  Other 
consumer loans are generally charged off when they become 120 days past 
due unless fully secured.

MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE
Mortgages held for sale are stated at the lower of aggregate cost or 
market value.  The determination of market value includes consideration 
of all open positions, outstanding commitments from investors, and 
related fees paid.

Gains and losses on sales of mortgages are recognized at settlement 
dates.  Gains and losses are determined by the difference between sales 
proceeds and the carrying value of the mortgages.

PURCHASED MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS
The costs of purchased mortgage servicing rights are capitalized and are 
either deferred, if anticipated to be sold concurrent with the sale of 
the mortgage, or, if the servicing rights are retained, amortized over 
the estimated remaining life of the underlying loans using a method which 
approximates the level yield method.  The carrying value of purchased 
mortgage servicing rights is periodically evaluated in relation to 
estimated future servicing net revenues.

PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and amortization.  Owned properties are depreciated on a straight-line 
basis over their estimated useful lives.  Capital lease assets and 
leasehold improvements are amortized over lease terms on a straight-line 
basis.

The cost of improvements are capitalized while maintenance and repairs as 
well as gains and losses on dispositions of premises and equipment are 
included in non-interest expenses.

OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED
Other real estate owned is stated at the lower of cost or 70 percent of 
current appraised value, which is not materially different from fair 
value minus estimated costs to sell.  When a property is acquired, the 
excess of the recorded investment in the property over fair value, if 
any, is charged to the allowance for credit losses.  Subsequent declines 
in the estimated fair value, net operating results and gains or losses on 
disposition of the property are included in other non-interest expenses.




GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES
Goodwill represents the unamortized cost of acquiring subsidiaries and 
other net assets in excess of the appraised value of such net assets at 
the date of acquisition.   In 1993, the corporation changed the 
amortizable life of goodwill to a maximum of 15 years from amortizable 
lives ranging from 15-30 years.  Goodwill is amortized using the 
straight-line method. Other identifiable intangibles are amortized 
straight-line over various periods not to exceed 15 years.

INTEREST RATE FUTURES, CAPS AND FLOORS, AND FORWARD CONTRACTS
The corporation uses interest rate futures, caps and floors and forward 
contracts as part of its overall interest rate risk management strategy.   
Realized gains and losses on positions used in the management of specific 
asset and liability positions in banking operations are deferred and 
amortized over the terms of the items hedged as adjustments to interest 
income or interest expense.  Realized gains and losses on positions used 
as hedges in mortgage banking operations are deferred and recognized when 
the related mortgages are sold.  Positions which are not hedges of 
specific assets, liabilities or commitments are valued at market and the 
resulting gains or losses are recognized currently.

The corporation also uses option agreements as part of its overall risk 
management strategy.  Premiums paid on purchased put options which 
qualify as hedges are deferred and amortized over the terms of the 
contracts.  Purchased options for uncovered puts are marked to market 
daily with losses limited to the amount of the option fee.  Losses are 
recognized currently on put options sold when the market value of the 
underlying security falls below the put price plus the premium received.  
A premium received on a covered call option sold is deferred until the 
option matures.  If the market value of the related asset is greater than 
the option strike price, the option will be exercised and the premium 
recorded as an adjustment of the gain or loss recognized.  If the option 
expires the premium is recorded in other non-interest income.  Uncovered 
calls sold are marked to market daily with the gain limited to the amount 
of the option fee.

INTEREST RATE SWAPS
The corporation and its subsidiaries have entered into interest rate 
swaps as a tool to manage the interest sensitivity of the balance sheet.  
The contracts represent an exchange of interest payments, and the 
underlying principal balances of the assets or liabilities are not 
affected.  Net settlement amounts are reported as adjustments to interest 
income or interest expense.  

INCOME TAXES
The corporation and its United States subsidiaries file a consolidated 
federal income tax return.  The effects of current or deferred taxes are 
recognized as a current and deferred tax liability or asset based on 
current tax laws.  Accordingly, income tax expense in the consolidated 
statements of income includes charges or credits to properly reflect the 
current and deferred tax asset or liability.  Foreign taxes paid are 
applied as credits to reduce federal income taxes payable.  

In 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," 
(FAS 109) effective January 1, 1993. The corporation adopted FAS 109 as 
of January 1, 1993, with no material impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of the corporation. Prior to adoption of FAS 109, the 
corporation accounted for income taxes under Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards No. 96.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
The accounts of the corporation's Canadian subsidiary are measured using 
local currency as the functional currency.  Assets and liabilities are 




translated into United States dollars at period-end exchange rates, and 
income and expense accounts are translated at average monthly exchange 
rates.  Net exchange gains or losses resulting from such translation are 
excluded from net income and included as a separate component of 
stockholders' equity.

EARNINGS PER SHARE
Income for primary and fully diluted earnings per share is adjusted for 
preferred stock dividends.  Primary earnings per share data is computed 
based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and 
common stock equivalents arising from the assumed exercise of outstanding 
stock options.  Fully diluted earnings per share data is computed by 
using such average common shares and equivalents increased by the assumed 
conversion of the 6 3/4 percent convertible subordinated debentures, the 
12 percent convertible notes and the 7 percent convertible preferred 
stock into common stock.  Income for fully diluted earnings per share is 
also adjusted for interest expense on these debentures and notes, net of 
the related income tax effect, and preferred stock dividends related to 
the convertible preferred stock.  

Weighted average numbers of common and common equivalent shares applied 
in calculating earnings per share are as follows:

                           1993          1992          1991 

 Primary                293,347,385   290,552,332   285,353,846
 Fully diluted          306,024,123   304,962,600   292,724,080


2.  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

The corporation regularly explores opportunities for acquisitions of 
financial institutions and related businesses. Generally, management of 
the corporation does not make a public announcement about an acquisition 
opportunity until a definitive agreement has been signed.

On January 14, 1994, the corporation completed its acquisition of First 
United Bank Group, Inc. (First United), a multibank holding company 
headquartered in Albuquerque, New Mexico, with total assets of $3.9 
billion. The corporation issued 17,784,916 shares of its common stock in 
connection with the acquisition. The acquisition will be accounted for 
using the pooling of interests method.  Unaudited pro forma net income 
and net income per share amounts, representing a combination of the 
corporation and First United for the years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 
and 1991 are:




On January 1, 1994, the corporation completed its acquisition of St. 
Cloud National Bank & Trust Co., a $119 million bank, and on January 6, 
1994, closed on St. Cloud Metropolitan Agency, Inc., an insurance agency 
and issued 1,105,820 and 32,969 common shares, respectively.

On December 10, 1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of Winner 
Banshares, Inc., a $99 billion bank holding company headquartered in 
Winner, South Dakota, and issued 530,737 common shares. On October 29, 




1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of FirstAmerican Bank, 
N.A., a $47.6 million bank, located in Colorado Springs, Colorado. On 
October 7, 1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of Ralston 
Bancshares, Inc., a $101.1 million bank holding company headquartered in 
Ralston, Nebraska, and issued 548,981 common shares. October 1, 1993, the 
corporation completed its acquisition of M & D Holding Company, a $57.1 
million bank holding company headquartered in Spring Lake Park, 
Minnesota, and issued 536,084 common shares. On September 10, 1993, 
Norwest Bank Denver, N.A., a banking subsidiary of the corporation, 
completed its acquisition of $1.1 billion in assets of the Columbia 
Savings division of First Nationwide Bank, a Federal Savings Bank.  On 
September 1, 1993, Norwest Bank Arizona, N.A., a subsidiary of the 
corporation, completed its acquisition of the $2.1 billion banking 
business of Citibank (Arizona), a subsidiary of Citicorp. On April 1, 
1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of Financial Concepts 
Bancorp, Inc., a $175.5 million bank holding company headquartered in 
Green Bay Wisconsin, and issued 847,416 common shares. On February 1, 
1993, the corporation completed its acquisitions of Merchants & Miners 
Bancshares, Inc., a $57 million bank holding company headquartered in 
Hibbing, Minnesota, and BORIS Systems, Inc., a $6 million data 
processing/transmission service, headquartered in East Lansing, Michigan, 
which provides services to more than 100 boards of realtors located 
throughout the United States, and issued 343,050 and 691,210 common 
shares, respectively. On January 8, 1993, the corporation completed its 
acquisition of Rocky Mountain Bankshares, Inc., a $105 million bank 
holding company with a bank in Aspen, Colorado, and issued 557,084 common 
shares.

The acquisitions of St. Cloud National Bank & Trust Co., Winner 
Banshares, Inc., Ralston Bancshares, Inc. and Financial Concepts Bancorp, 
Inc. were accounted for using the pooling of interests method of 
accounting; however, the financial results of the corporation have not 
been restated because the effect of these acquisitions on the 
corporation's financial statements was not material. The acquisitions of 
St. Cloud Metropolitan Agency, Inc., FirstAmerican Bank, N.A., M & D 
Holding Company, Columbia Savings, Citibank (Arizona), Merchants & Miners 
Bancshares, Inc., BORIS Systems, Inc. and Rocky Mountain Bankshares, Inc. 
were accounted for using the purchase method.

On February 9, 1993, the corporation completed its acquisition of Lincoln 
Financial Corporation (Lincoln), a $2.0 billion bank holding company 
headquartered in Fort Wayne, Indiana.  The corporation issued 8,529,242 
shares of its common stock in connection with the acquisition.  The 
acquisition was accounted for using the pooling of interests method of 
accounting and, accordingly, the corporations' financial statements have 
been restated for all periods prior to the acquisition to include the 
accounts and operations of Lincoln.

Net income and net income per share amounts of the corporation and 
Lincoln prior to restatement for the years ended December 31, 1992 and 
1991 were:

In millions, except per share amounts             1992      1991

The corporation
  Net income                                    $446.7    $422.1
  Net income per share
    Primary                                       1.48      1.46
    Fully diluted                                 1.47      1.44
Lincoln
  Net loss                                      $(82.6)    (21.2)
  Net loss per share                            (11.47)    (2.96)

As of January 19, 1994, the corporation had eight other pending 
acquisitions with total assets of approximately $1.3 billion. The 
corporation expects to issue approximately 10.4 million common shares 
upon completion of these acquisitions. These acquisitions, subject to 




approval of regulatory authorities, are expected to be completed during 
1994 and are not significant to the financial statements of the 
corporation, either individually or in the aggregate.

On December 29, 1992, the corporation acquired Am-Can Investment, Inc., a 
$33 million bank holding company headquartered in Moorhead, Minnesota, 
for cash. On October 2, 1992, the corporation completed its acquisition 
of United Bancshares, Inc. a $174 million bank holding company 
headquartered in Lincoln, Nebraska and issued 899,972 common shares.  
These acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method.

Effective January 19, 1992, Davenport Bank and Trust Company (Davenport 
Bank), an Iowa banking corporation headquartered in Davenport, Iowa, 
consolidated with Bettendorf Bank, National Association, a banking 
subsidiary of the corporation.  The corporation issued 19,331,426 shares 
of its common stock to former Davenport Bank shareholders in connection 
with the consolidation.  The consolidation was accounted for using the 
pooling of interests method of accounting and, accordingly, the 
corporation's financial statements have been restated for all periods 
prior to the consolidation to include the accounts and operations of 
Davenport Bank.

On November 27, 1991, the corporation acquired MIG Insurance Brokers, 
Inc. (MIG), an insurance brokerage company headquartered in Minneapolis, 
Minnesota. As provided under the agreement, the corporation issued 
230,000 shares of its common stock in exchange for all outstanding shares 
of MIG common stock.  This acquisition was accounted for using the 
pooling of interests method of accounting.  Financial statements prior to 
the acquisition date were not restated due to immateriality.

Effective April 19, 1991, United Banks of Colorado, Inc. (United), a $5.5 
billion bank holding company headquartered in Denver, Colorado, merged 
with the corporation.  As provided under the agreement, the corporation 
issued 38,515,662 shares of its common stock in exchange for all 
outstanding shares of United's common stock.  In addition, each 
outstanding share of United preferred stock was converted into the right 
to receive $51.50 in cash plus accrued dividends.  The merger was 
accounted for using the pooling of interest method of accounting and 
accordingly, the corporation's financial statements have been restated 
for all periods prior to the acquisition to include the accounts and 
operations of United.


3.  RESTRICTIONS ON CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS

The corporation's banking subsidiaries are required to maintain reserve 
balances in cash with Federal Reserve Banks.  The average amount of those 
reserve balances was approximately $518 million and $433 million for the 
years ended December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.


4.  INVESTMENT SECURITIES

Information related to the carrying and market values of investment and 
mortgage-backed securities for the three years ended December 31 is 
provided in the table on page 51.  At December 31, 1991, no investment or 
mortgage-backed securities were classified as available for sale.





CARRYING AND MARKET VALUES OF INVESTMENT AND MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES






The gross unrealized gains and losses on investment and mortgage backed 
securities at December 31 were:






The carrying and market values of investments and mortgage-backed securities by 
maturity at December 31 were:






Interest income on investment and mortgage-backed securities for each of the 
three years ended December 31 was:



Investment and mortgage-backed securities (including securities available for 
sale) carried at $5,807.7 million and $5,365.4 million were pledged to secure 
public or trust deposits or for other purposes at December 31, 1993 and 1992, 
respectively.





Total gross realized gains and gross realized losses from the sale of
securities for each of the three years ended December 31 were:



During 1993 securities held for investment with a total amortized cost of
$29.5 million were called by the issuer and, therefore, sold by the
corporation for a total gain on sales of $0.1 million.





5.  LOANS AND LEASES

The carrying values of loans and leases at December 31 were:

In millions                                      1993      1992

Commercial                                  $ 7,018.4   6,886.5
Construction and land development               496.2     397.6
Real estate                                  10,975.8  10,066.4
Consumer                                      8,258.5   6,759.6
Lease financing                                 655.4     586.3
Foreign                                         548.5     502.4
   Total loans and leases                    27,952.8  25,198.8
Unearned discount                            (1,007.8) (1,003.1)
   Loans and leases, net of
    unearned discount                       $26,945.0  24,195.7



Changes in the allowance for credit losses were:

In millions                                      1993      1992      1991

Balance at beginning of year                  $ 742.7     668.1     560.0
  Allowances related to assets acquired          35.7      25.5      18.8

  Provision for credit losses                   140.1     266.7     401.9

  Credit losses                                (303.2)   (330.3)   (433.1)
  Recoveries                                    129.6     112.7     120.5
    Net credit losses                          (173.6)   (217.6)   (312.6)
Balance at end of year                        $ 744.9     742.7     668.1



Non-accrual, restructured and 90 day past due loans and other real estate 
owned at December 31 were:

In millions                                      1993     1992

Non-accrual loans                              $172.9    231.3
Restructured loans                                7.9      2.9
  Total non-accrual and restructured loans      180.8    234.2
Other real estate owned                          54.7     90.9
   Total non-performing assets                  235.5    325.1
Loans and leases past due 90 days or more*       50.0     47.6
   Total non-performing assets and 90-day
    past due loans and leases                  $285.5    372.7

* Excludes non-accrual loans and leases.





The effect of non-accrual and restructured loans on interest income for 
each of the three years ended December 31 was:

In millions                                 1993     1992     1991

Interest income 
  As originally contracted                 $17.3     24.5     38.7
  As recognized                             (5.0)    (7.3)   (13.9)
    Reduction of interest income           $12.3     17.2     24.8

There are no material commitments to lend additional funds to customers 
whose loans were classified as non-accrual or restructured at December 
31, 1993.

Leveraged lease financing amounted to $144.9 million and $131.1 million 
at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  Deferred income taxes 
related to leveraged leases amounted to $99.7 million and $83.0 million 
at the same dates, respectively.

Loans and leases totaling $4,082.3 million were pledged to secure Federal 
Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances at December 31, 1993.

The corporation and its subsidiaries have made loans to the executive 
officers and directors (and their associates) of the corporation and its 
significant subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business.  Aggregate 
amounts of these loans (but excluding loans to the immediate families of 
persons who are solely executive officers and directors of the 
corporation's significant subsidiaries) were $65.3 million and $61.0 
million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  Activity with 
respect to these loans during 1993 included advances, repayments and net 
decreases (due to changes in executive officers and directors) of $203.0 
million, and $196.6 million and $2.1 million, respectively.

6.  PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT

The carrying value of premises and equipment at December 31 was:

In millions                                       1993         1992

Owned
Land                                          $   82.3         71.3
Premises and improvements                        585.0        567.9
Furniture, fixtures and equipment                782.3        648.8
    Total                                      1,449.6      1,288.0
Capitalized leases
Premises                                          20.2         19.6
Equipment                                         14.3         12.5
    Total                                         34.5         32.1
Total premises and equipment                   1,484.1      1,320.1
Less accumulated depreciation
 and amortization                               (727.6)      (656.7)
Premises and equipment, net                   $  756.5        663.4

7.  CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT OVER $100,000

The corporation had certificates of deposit over $100,000 of $1,557.0 
million and $1,508.4 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  
Interest expense on certificates of deposit over $100,000 was $80.4 
million, $86.5 million and $159.3 million for the years ended December 
31, 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.  Total brokered certificates of 
deposit over $100,000 were zero at December 31, 1993 and $13.5 million at 
December 31, 1992.





8.  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS

Information related to short-term borrowings for the three years ended 
December 31 is provided in the table below.

At December 31, 1993, the corporation had available lines of credit 
totaling $1,172.7 million, including $972.7 million at a subsidiary, 
Norwest Financial, Inc.  These financing arrangements require the 
maintenance of compensating balances or payment of fees, which are not 
material.

At December 31, 1993, the corporation had revolving credit agreements 
totaling $200.0 million (included in the $1,172.7 million reported in the 
preceding paragraph).



SHORT-TERM BORROWING
                                    1993           1992            1991     
In millions                   Amount   Rate   Amount   Rate   Amount   Rate 

At December 31,
Commercial Paper            $2,711.6  3.65% $2,947.5  3.65% $3,067.2  5.07%
Federal funds purchased
 and securities sold 
 under agreements to
 repurchase                  2,038.2  2.73   4,873.3  2.84   2,134.2  4.19
Other                        1,055.3  3.23     848.6  5.27     752.8  4.72
  Total                     $5,805.1  3.21  $8,669.4  3.35  $5,954.2  4.71

For the year ended 
 December 31,
 Average Daily Balance
Commercial Paper            $2,657.0  3.37% $2,751.2  4.19% $2,739.4  6.37%
Federal funds purchased
 and securities sold
 under agreements to
 repurchase                  3,359.7  3.03   3,647.8  3.67   2,590.8  5.60
Other                        1,097.1  3.85     480.8  5.09     395.3  5.97
  Total                     $7,131.8  3.28  $6,879.8  3.98  $5,725.5  5.99

Maximum month end balance
Commercial Paper            $3,084.6    NA  $2,947.5    NA  $3,067.2    NA
Federal funds purchased
 and securities sold
 under agreements to
 repurchase                  4,580.5    NA   4,943.2    NA   3,448.1    NA
Other                        1,587.3    NA     849.6    NA     758.3    NA


NA - not applicable





9.  LONG-TERM DEBT
Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of:

In millions                                             1993         1992

Norwest Corporation (parent company only)
Medium-Term Notes Series A, 4.5% to 9.1%
 due 1994-1998                                      $   62.6         85.6
Floating Rate Medium-Term Notes, 
 Series B, due 1995                                    200.0            -
Floating Rate Medium-Term Notes,
 Series C, due 1995 to 1998                            255.4            -
Medium-Term Notes, Series C, 4.03% to
 5.14%, due 1995 to 1998                                44.6            -
12% Convertible Notes due 1993                             -          6.7
ESOP Series A due 1996, 8.42%
 and 8.5% in 1993 and 1992, respectively                31.0         31.0
7 7/8% Notes due 1997                                  100.0        100.0
9 1/4% Subordinated Capital Notes due 1997             100.0        100.0
Floating Rate Subordinated Capital Notes
 due 1998                                                  -         78.0
Floating Rate Subordinated Capital Notes
 due 1999                                                  -         83.0
6 5/8% Subordinated Notes, due 2003                    200.0            -
ESOP Series B Notes due 1999, 8.52%
 and 8.6% in 1993 and 1992, respectively                13.3         13.3
7 3/4% Sinking Fund Debentures due 2003                    -         51.8
6 3/4% Convertible Subordinated
 Debentures due 2003                                     0.3          0.5
6.65% Subordinated Debentures, due
 2023                                                  200.0            -
Senior Notes, 11.22% to 11.66%, due
 1994 to 1995                                           15.0         30.0
5.75% Senior Notes, due 1998                           100.0            -
6% Senior Notes, due 2000                              200.0            -
Other Notes                                              6.0          3.8
    Total                                            1,528.2        583.7
Norwest Financial, Inc., and its subsidiaries
Senior Notes, 4,625% to 9.75%, due
 1994 to 2003                                        2,479.2      2,141.8
Senior Subordinated Notes, 4.85% to
 9.63%, due 1994 to 1998                               262.5        262.5
Junior Subordinated Notes, 9.87% to
 10%, due 1993                                             -          1.9
    Total                                            2,741.7      2,406.2
Other consolidated subsidiaries
FHLB Notes and Advances, 3.10% to
 7.61%, due 1994 through 2012                          306.5        309.1
Floating Rate FHLB Advances due 1994
 through 2000                                        2,140.1      1,110.0
10.585% to 12.175% Notes guaranteed
 by Small Business Administration due
 1994 through 1995                                       4.8          6.8
Other notes and debentures due
 1994 through 2003                                      34.8         29.6
Mortgages payable                                       27.0         26.6
Capital lease obligations                               19.3         17.9
    Total                                            2,532.5      1,500.0
Less 7 3/4% Sinking Fund Debentures due
 2003 held by subsidiaries                                 -         (8.9)
    Total                                           $6,802.4      4,481.0






Notes and debentures of the corporation and Norwest Financial Services, 
Inc. and its subsidiaries are unsecured.

During 1993, the corporation issued $100 million of senior notes at 5.75 
percent due March 15, 1998 and $200 million of senior notes at 6 percent 
due March 15, 2000. The corporation issued $200 million of subordinated 
notes at  6 5/8% due March 15, 2003 and issued $200 million of 
subordinated debentures at 6.65 percent due October 15, 2023. Also during 
1993, the corporation issued a total of $560.3 million of Medium-Term 
Notes. This includes $60.3 million of Medium-Term Notes, Series A, 
bearing interest at rates from 4.47 percent to 5.74 percent and maturing 
from June 14, 1995 to July 2, 1998; $200 million of Medium-Term Notes, 
Series B, at a floating rate of LIBOR minus five basis points and 
maturing July 7, 1995, and $300 million of Medium-Term Notes, Series C. 
The Medium-Term Notes, Series C, have maturity dates ranging from October 
5, 1995 to October 22, 1998, and consist of $44.6 million of fixed rate 
notes and $255.4 million of floating rate notes. The fixed rate Medium-
Term Notes, Series C, bear interest at rates ranging from 4.03 percent to 
5.14 percent. The floating rate Medium-Term Notes, Series C, reset 
periodically at interest rates ranging from three month LIBOR to three 
month LIBOR plus 30 basis points or U.S. Treasury Bills plus 25 basis 
points. The corporation has entered into $55 million of interest rate 
swap agreements to exchange the fixed rate interest on the Medium-Term 
Notes, Series A to a floating rate. The $60.3 million of Medium-Term 
Notes, Series A, issued in 1993 combined with the interest rate swap 
agreements provide the corporation with $55 million of funds at an 
effective net interest rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.29 percent. In 
addition, the corporation has entered into $20 million of interest rate 
swap agreements to exchange the fixed rate interest on the Medium-Term 
Notes, Series C, to a floating rate. $44.65 million of fixed rate Medium-
Term Notes, Series C, coupled with the interest rate swap agreements 
provide the corporation with $20 million of funds at an effective net 
interest rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.09 percent.

The 9 1/4 percent Subordinated Capital Notes due 1997 are redeemable at 
the option of the corporation at the principal amount in exchange for an 
equivalent market value of common stock,  perpetual preferred or other 
eligible primary capital securities of the organization or cash at the 
bondholder's election if the corporation determines that the debt no 
longer constitutes primary capital or ceases to be treated as primary 
capital by the regulatory authorities. The corporation is required to 
sell or issue and dedicate common stock, preferred stock or any other 
capital securities, as determined by the regulatory authorities, and 
dedicate the proceeds to the retirement or redemption of the principal 
amount of these subordinated capital notes. Proceeds of equity offerings 
have been designated to redeem the full amount of the subordinated 
debentures.

The 6.625 percent Subordinated Notes due 2003 are unsecured and 
subordinated to all present and future senior debt of the corporation.  
Payment of principal may be accelerated only in the case of bankruptcy of 
the corporation. There is no right of acceleration in the case of a 
default in the payment of principal or interest or in the lack of 
performance of any covenant or agreement of the corporation.

The 6.65 percent Subordinated Debentures due 2003 are unsecured and 
subordinated to all present and future senior debt of the corporation. 
There is no right of acceleration in the case of a default in the payment 
of principal or interest or in the lack of performance of any covenant of 
the corporation. Payment of principal may be accelerated only in the case 
of bankruptcy of the corporation.

The Series A ESOP Notes are due April 26, 1996 and the Series B ESOP 
Notes are due April 26, 1999. The full principal amounts of the Series A 
ESOP Notes are due at maturity. The Series B ESOP Notes require payments 
of $4.4 million on April 25 of 1997 and 1998, with the balance due at 
maturity. As a result of the increase in the federal tax rate in 1993, 
the rates on the Series A ESOP Notes and Series B ESOP Notes were




 
adjusted retroactively from 8.5 percent to 8.6 percent, respectively, to 
8.42 percent an 8.52 percent, respectively.

The 7 7/8 percent Notes due 1997 were redeemed on January 20, 1994, at 
the principal amounts plus accrued interest.

The corporation has entered into interest rate swap agreements to 
exchange the fixed interest rate on $50 million of the 9 1/4 percent 
Subordinated Capital Notes for a floating rate through 1997. The 9 1/4 
percent Subordinated Capital Notes coupled with the interest rate swap 
agreements provide the corporation with $50 million of funds at an 
effective net interest rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 0.44 percent.

The 6 3/4 percent Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2003 can be 
converted into common stock of the corporation at $5 per share subject to 
adjustment for certain events. Repayment is subordinated, but only to the 
extent described in the indenture relating to the debentures, to the 
prior payment in full of all of the corporation's obligations for 
borrowed money. The subordinated debentures are redeemable at the 
principal amount plus a premium ranging from 1.35 percent in 1993 to 
0.338 percent in 1997, and thereafter without a premium.

During 1993, Norwest Financial, Inc. issued a total of $698 million of 
senior notes bearing interest at rates from 5.125 percent to 7.0 percent 
and due dates ranging from December 2, 1996, to August 1, 2003. Norwest 
Financial also issued $100 million of Senior Subordinated Notes, bearing 
interest rates ranging from 4.85 percent to 5.2 percent and maturing in 
1996.

Mortgages payable consist of notes secured by deeds of trust on the 
premises and certain other real estate owned with a net book value of 
$16.6 million at December 31, 1993. Interest rates on the mortgages 
payable range up to 9.25 percent with maturities through the year 1998.

The Floating Rate FHLB advances bear interest at rates ranging from LIBOR 
less 0.20 percent to LIBOR less 0.07 percent, the one month LIBOR less 
0.15 percent to the one month LIBOR less 0.12 percent and the three month 
LIBOR less 0.15 percent to the three month LIBOR less 0.10 percent. The 
maturities of the FHLB  Advances are determined quarterly, based on the 
outstanding balance, the then current LIBOR rate, and the maximum life of 
the advance. Based upon these factors and the LIBOR rate in effect at 
December 31, 1993, the maturity dates range from 1994 to 2000.

Maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 1993 were:

                                                      Parent
In Millions                      Consolidated   Company Only

1994                                 $1,467.3            8.0
1995                                    984.7          309.8
1996                                  1,047.0          179.8
1997                                    631.3          205.1
1998                                    865.0          218.1
Thereafter                            1,807.1          607.4
    Total                            $6,802.4        1,528.2






10.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

On April 27, 1993, the stockholders approved an amendment to the 
corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation increasing the 
authorized shares of common stock to 500,000,000.  On April 27, 1993, the 
Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock split effected in the 
form of a 100 percent stock dividend distributed on June 28, 1993 to 
stockholders of record on June 4, 1993.  The stock split resulted in an 
increase in common stock of 146,549,734 shares and was accounted for by a 
transfer of $244.2 million to common stock from surplus.  All prior year 
common share and per share disclosures have been restated to reflect the 
stock split.

The corporation has outstanding 1,143,750 shares of Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B, $200 stated value per share, in 
the form of 4,575,000 depositary shares, each of which represents 
ownership of one quarter of a share of such preferred stock. At December 
31, 1993, there were 91 holders of record of the depositary shares. 
Dividends are cumulative from the date of issue and are payable quarterly 
at a rate of 7.00 percent per annum.  The convertible preferred stock is 
convertible at the option of the holder at any time, unless previously 
redeemed, into common stock of the corporation at a conversion price of 
$18.23 per share of common stock subject to adjustments in certain 
events.  On or after September 1, 1995, the corporation, at its option, 
may redeem all or part of the outstanding shares at 104.2 percent of its 
stated value plus accrued and unpaid dividends.  The redemption price 
declines during each 12-month subsequent period to 100.0 percent of the 
stated value plus accrued and unpaid dividends if redeemed on or after 
September 1, 2001.

The corporation has outstanding 1,131,250 shares of 10.24 percent 
Cumulative Preferred Stock, $100 stated value per share, in the form of 
4,525,000 depository shares, each of which represents ownership of one 
quarter of a share of such preferred stock. At Deember 31, 1993, there 
were 1,639 holders of record of the depository shares. Dividends are 
cumulative from the date of issue and are payable quarterly at 10.24 
percent per annum.  Prior to January 1, 1996, if the corporation requests 
the holders of this preferred stock to vote upon or consent to a merger 
or consolidation, and the corporation shall not have received a favorable 
vote or consent requisite to the consummaton of the transaction within 60 
days, the corporation may redeem, at its option, all outstanding shares 
of 10.24 percent Cumulative Preferred Stock at the $100 stated value plus 
accrued and unpaid dividends.  On or after January 1, 1996, the 
corporation, at its option, may redeem all or part of the outstanding 
shares at the $100 stated value plus accrued and unpaid dividends.

In 1993, 1992, and 1991, holders of $6.9 million, $5.0 million and $0.7 
million, respectively, of convertible subordinated debentures and the 12 
percent convertible notes exchanged such debt for 695,016 shares, 831,710 
shares and 92,198 shares, respectively, of the corporation's common 
stock. At December 31, 1993, there were 11 holders of record of the 
convertible subordinated debentures.





Common stockholders may purchase shares of common stock at market prices 
with no sales charges through a dividend reinvestment plan.  Stockholders 
may purchase additional shares up to $30,000 per quarter with no sales 
charges under the terms of the plan.

The corporation had reserved shares of authorized but unissued common 
stock at December 31, as follows: 

                                                    1993            1992

Stock incentive plans                         24,585,027      17,300,750
Convertible subordinated debentures
 and notes                                        50,500         858,004
Dividend reinvestment                          1,089,842       1,408,874
Invest Norwest Program                         1,067,105         249,452
Savings-Investment Plans and Executive
 Incentive Compensation Plan                   5,108,548       1,089,514
Cumulative Convertible Preferred
 Stock, Series B                              12,620,026      12,620,026
Directors' Formula Stock Award and 
 Stock Deferral Plans                            386,244         392,820
Employees' deferral plans                      1,350,000               -
    Total                                     46,257,292      33,919,440

Each share of the corporation's common stock includes one preferred share 
purchase right.  These rights will become exercisable only if a person or 
group acquires or announces an offer to acquire 25 percent or more of the 
corporation's common stock.  This triggering percentage may be reduced to 
no less than 15 percent by the Board prior to the time the rights become 
exercisable.  When exercisable, each right will entitle the holder to buy 
one four-hundredth of a share of a new series of junior participating 
preferred stock at a price of $175 for each one one-hundredth of a 
preferred share.  In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, 
holders of the rights will be entitled to purchase either the 
corporation's common stock or shares in an "acquiring entity" at one half 
of the then market value.  The corporation will generally be entitled to 
redeem the rights at one-quarter cent per right at any time before they 
become exercisable. The rights will expire on November 23, 1998, unless 
extended, previously redeemed or exercised.  The corporaton has reserved 
one million shares of preferred stock for issuance upon exercise of the 
rights.


11.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT AND STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS

Savings Investment Plans
Under the Savings-Investment Plan (SIP), each eligible employee may 
contribute on a before-tax basis up to twelve percent of his or her 
salary, and the contributions will be matched 100 percent by the 
corporation up to six percent of the employee's salary.  The 
corporation's matching contributions vest 25 percent per year of 
eligibility.  All of the corporation's matching contributions are 
invested in the corporation's common stock.  The employee's contributions 
are invested in a bond, equity, S&P 500 index, stable return or Norwest 
common stock fund, or a combination thereof, at the employee's direction.  
The corporation also maintains a Supplemental Savings-Investment Plan 
under which amounts otherwise available for contribution to the SIP, in 
excess of the contribution limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986, are credited to an account for the participant.  
Contribution expense for the plans amounted to $21.8 million, $18.3 
million and $19.0 million in 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.





The corporation's SIP contains Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) 
provisions under which the SIP may borrow money to purchase corporation 
common stock.  In 1989, the corporation loaned money to the SIP which was 
used to purchase shares of the corporation's common stock.  The loans 
from the corporation to the SIP are repayable in monthly installments 
through April 26, 1999, with interest at rates of 8.35 percent and 8.45 
percent.  Interest income on these loans was $1.6 million, $1.8 million 
and $2.3 million in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively, and is included as 
a reduction in salaries and benefits expense.  Total interest expense on 
the Series A and B ESOP Notes was $3.8 million in each of 1993, 1992, and 
1991.  Each quarter dividends paid to the SIP are used to make loan 
principal and interest payments.  With each principal and interest 
payment, a portion of the common stock purchased in 1989 is released and 
allocated to participating employees. The corporation's ESOP loans to the 
SIP are recorded as a reduction of stockholder's equity.  Total dividends 
paid to the SIP in 1993, 1992, and 1991 were $5.7 million, $4.9 million 
and $4.3 million, respectively.

Norwest Financial Services, Inc. has a thrift and profit sharing plan for 
its employees in which eligible employees may contribute on a before tax 
basis up to ten percent of their salary, and the contributions will be 
matched 25 percent by Norwest Financial up to six percent of the 
employee's salary. Norwest Financial may also make a profit sharing 
contribution with the amount determined by the percentage return on 
consolidated equity of Norwest Financial and its subsidiaries. 
Contribution expense for the plan was $9.3 million, $7.9 million and $8.1 
million in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

RETIREMENT PLANS
The corporation's noncontributory defined benefit retirement plans cover 
substantially all full-time employees.  Pension benefits provided are 
based on the employee's highest compensation in three consecutive years 
during the last ten years of employment.  The corporation's funding 
policy is to maximize the federal income tax benefits of the 
contributions while maintaining adequate assets to provide for both 
benefits earned to date and those expected to be earned in the future.

The combined plans' funded status at December 31 is presented below:

In millions                                          1993       1992
Plan assets at fair value*                         $638.2      516.4
Actuarial present value of benefit obligations
   Accumulated benefit obligation, including
    vested benefits of $454.7 and $370.8,
    respectively                                    500.8      401.7
   Projected benefit obligation for service
    rendered to date                                649.8      512.2
Plan assets (in excess of) less than projected
 benefit obligation                                  11.6       (4.2)
Unrecognized net gain (loss) from past
 experience different from that assumed and
 effects of changes in assumptions                  (10.5)      31.4
Unrecognized net asset being amortized over
 approximately 17 years                              16.0       22.8
Unrecognized prior service cost                      (2.7)      (5.8)
Accrued pension liability included in other
 liabilities                                       $ 14.4       44.2 

*Consists primarily of listed stocks and bonds and obligations of the 
 U.S. Government and its agencies.





The components of net pension cost for the years ended December 31 are
presented below:

In millions                                        1993     1992     1991

Service cost-benefits earned
 during the year                                  $30.4     21.7     19.5
Interest cost on projected
 benefit obligation                                41.6     38.6     34.5
Actual return on plan assets                      (66.1)   (38.1)  (113.0)
Net amortization and deferral*                     49.1     (8.3)    73.3
Net pension cost                                  $55.0     13.9     14.3



* Consists primarily of the net effects of the difference between the 
expected investment return and the actual investment return and the 
amortization of the unrecognized net gains and losses over five years.

The weighted average discount rate and the rate of increase in future 
compensation levels used in determining the actuarial present value of 
the projected benefit obligation were seven percent and six percent, 
respectively, for 1993 and eight percent and six percent, respectively, 
for 1992.  The expected long-term rate of return on assets was six 
percent for 1993 and nine percent for 1992.

Other Postretirement Benefits
The corporation sponsors a medical plan for retired employees.  
Substantially all employees become eligible for these benefits if they 
retire under the corporation's retirement plans.  The corporation's 
funding policy is to maximize the federal income tax benefits of the 
contributions while maintaining adequate assets to provide for both 
benefits earned to date and those expected to be earned in the future.  
The plan's funded status at December 31 is presented below:








The following methods and assumptions are used by the corporation in 
estimating its fair value disclosures for financial instruments.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value 
due to the relatively short period of time between the origination of the 
instruments and their expected realization.

TRADING ACCOUNT SECURITIES, INVESTMENT SECURITIES, MORTGAGE-BACKED 
SECURITIES, INVESTMENTS AND MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE 
AND STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE FOR SALE
Fair values of these financial instruments were estimated using quoted 
market prices, when available.  If quoted market prices were not 
available, fair value was estimated using quoted market prices for 
similar assets.

MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE
Fair value of mortgages held for sale are stated at market.

LOANS AND LEASES AND STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE FOR SALE
Fair values of loans and leases are estimated based on contractual cash 
flows, adjusted for prepayment assumptions and credit risk factors, 
discounted using the current market rate for loans and leases.  Variable 
rate loans, including student loans available for sale, are valued at 
carrying value since the loans reprice to market rates over short periods 
of time.  Credit card receivables are valued at carrying value since the 
receivables are priced near market rates for such receivables and are 
short-term in life.  The fair value of the corporation's consumer finance 
subsidiaries' loans have been reported at book value since the estimated 
life, assuming prepayments, is short-term in nature. 

INTEREST RECEIVABLE AND PAYABLE
The carrying value of interest receivable and payable approximates fair 
value due to the relatively short period of time between accrual and 
expected realization.

EXCESS SERVICING RIGHTS RECEIVABLE
Excess servicing rights receivable represents the present value using 
applicable investor yields of estimated future servicing revenues in 
excess of normal servicing revenues over the assumed life of the 
servicing portfolio.

DEPOSITS
The fair value of fixed-maturity deposits is the present value of the 
contractual cash flows, including principal and interest, and servicing 
costs, discounted using an appropriate investor yield.  

In accordance with FAS 107, the fair value of deposits with no stated 
maturity, such as demand deposit, savings, NOW and money market accounts, 
are disclosed as the amount payable on demand.

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
The carrying value of short-term borrowings approximates fair value due 
to the relatively short period of time between the origination of the 
instruments and their expected payment.






LONG-TERM DEBT
The fair value of long-term debt is the present value of the contractual 
cash flows, discounted by the investor yield which considers the 
corporation's credit rating.

COMMITMENTS TO EXTEND CREDIT, STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT AND RECOURSE 
OBLIGATIONS
The majority of the corporation's commitment agreements and letters of 
credit contain variable interest rates and counter-party credit 
deterioration clauses and therefore, the carrying value of the 
corporation's commitments to extend credit and letters of credit 
approximates fair value.  The fair value of the corporation's recourse 
obligations are valued based on estimated cash flows associated with such 
obligations.  As any potential liabilities under such recourse 
obligations are recognized on the corporation's balance sheet, the 
carrying value of such recourse obligations approximates fair value.

FORWARD DELIVERY COMMITMENTS, INTEREST RATE SWAPS, FUTURES CONTRACTS, 
OPTIONS AND INTEREST RATE CAPS AND FLOORS
The fair value of forward delivery commitments, interest rate caps, 
floors, swaps and futures contracts is estimated, using dealer quotes, as 
the amount that the corporation would receive or pay to execute a new 
agreement with terms identical to those remaining on the current 
agreement, considering current interest rates.

CERTAIN NON-FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Supplemental fair value information for certain non-financial instruments 
as of December 31 are set forth in the following table and explained 
below.

The supplemental fair value information, combined with the total fair 
value of net financial instruments from the table on page 75, is 
presented in the table on page 78 for information purposes.  This 
combination is not necessarily indicative of the "franchise value" or the 
fair value of the corporation taken as a whole.  Certain values of non-
financial instruments for 1992 and 1991 have been restated to conform 
with the non-financial instruments and related methodologies reported in 
the 1993 information. 






In millions                                     1993      1992       1991

Non-financial instrument
 assets and liabilities:
  Premises and  equipment, net              $   756.5    663.4      623.2
  Other assets                                1,398.7  1,455.4    1,357.6
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities     (1,814.1)(1,405.5)  (1,345.5)
Other values:
  Non-maturity deposits                       1,267.3  1,101.0    1,035.0
  Consumer finance network                    3,128.5  2,374.0    1,932.2
  Credit card                                   245.3     84.6      109.2
  Banking subsidiaries' consumer loans          269.3    224.4      198.3
  Mortgage servicing                            431.4    187.2       69.7
  Mortgage loan origination/
   wholesale network                            836.4    707.6      180.4
  Trust department                              606.8    547.4      485.3
Net fair value of certain non-financial
 instruments                                  7,126.1  5,939.5    4,645.4
Fair value of financial instruments           3,884.7  2,891.7    2,692.3
  Net stockholders' equity at the fair
   value of net financial instruments
   and certain non-financial instruments*   $11,010.8  8,831.2    7,337.7

* Amounts due not include applicable deferred income tax, if any.



The following methods and assumptions were used by the corporation in 
estimating the fair value of certain non-financial instruments.

NON-FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
The non-financial instrument assets and liabilities are stated at book 
value, which approximates fair value.

NON-MATURITY DEPOSITS
The fair value table of financial instruments on page 75 does not 
consider the benefit resulting from the low-cost funding provided by 
deposit liabilities as compared with wholesale funding rates.  The fair 
value of non-maturity deposits, considering these relational benefits, 
would be $20,670.6 million,  $17,276.0 million, and $15,706.3 million at 
December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  Such amounts are based 
on a discounted cash flow analysis, assuming a constant balance over ten 
years and taking into account the interest sensitivity of each deposit 
category.

CONSUMER FINANCE NETWORK
The supplemental fair value table includes the estimated fair value 
associated with the consumer finance network which is estimated to be 
$3,128.5 million, $2,374.0 million and $1,932.2 million at December 31, 
1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  Such estimates are based on current 
industry price/earnings ratios for similar networks.  These current 
price/earnings ratios are industry averages and do not consider the 
higher earnings levels and the value of the data processing business 
associated with the corporation's consumer finance network. 

CREDIT CARD
The fair value of financial instruments on page 75 excludes the fair 
value attributed to the expected credit card balances in future years 
with the holders of such cards.  The fair value of such future balances 
is estimated to exceed book value by $245.3 million, $84.6 million and 
$109.2 million at December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively. This 
represents the fair value related to such future balances of both





 
securitized and on-balance sheet credit card receivables based on a 
discounted cash flow analysis, utilizing an assumed investor yield on 
similar portfolio acquisitions.

BANKING SUBSIDIARIES' CONSUMER LOANS
For purposes of the table of fair values of financial instruments on page   
75, the fair value of the banking subsidiaries' consumer loans is based 
on the contractual balances and maturities of existing loans.  The fair 
value of such financial instruments does not consider future loans with 
customers.  The fair value related to such future balances is estimated 
to be $269.3 million, $224.4 million and $198.3 million at December 31, 
1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  This fair value is estimated by cash 
flow analysis, discounted utilizing an investor yield.  The expected 
balances for such purposes are estimated to extend ten years at a 
constant rate of replacement.

MORTGAGE SERVICING
Mortgage servicing represents estimated current value in the servicing 
portfolio.  The corporation estimates that the fair value of its mortgage 
servicing exceeds book values by $431.4 million, $187.2 million and $69.7 
million at December 31, 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.

MORTGAGE LOAN ORIGINATION/WHOLESALE NETWORK
The supplemental fair value table includes the fair value associated with 
the corporation's origination network for mortgage loans, which is 
estimated to be $836.4 million, $707.6 million and $180.4 million at 
December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  Such estimates are based 
on current industry price/earnings ratios for similar networks.

TRUST DEPARTMENT
The fair value associated with the corporation's management of trust 
assets is estimated to be $606.8 million, $547.4 million and $485.3 
million at December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.  Such 
estimates are based on current trust revenues using an industry multiple.






17.  PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Condensed financial information for Norwest Corporation (parent company 
only) follows:



BALANCE SHEETS

In millions

At December 31,                                             1993      1992
Assets
Interest-bearing deposits with subsidiary banks         $  155.4     146.4
Advances to non-bank subsidiaries                        2,313.8   1,556.3
Capital notes and term loans of subsidiaries
  Banks                                                    353.0     333.0
  Non-banks                                                371.5     237.8
    Total capital notes and term loans of
     subsidiaries                                          724.5     570.8
Investments in subsidiaries
  Banks                                                  2,904.1   2,367.2
  Non-banks                                                803.4     837.1
    Total investment in subsidiaries                     3,707.5   3,204.3
Investment and mortgage-backed securities                  211.7     148.2
Investment securities available for sale                    91.4     105.9
Other assets                                               173.0     186.6
    Total assets                                        $7,377.3   5,918.5
Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
Short-term borrowings                                   $2,094.1   2,028.7
Accrued expenses and other liabilities                     186.6     165.4
Long-term debt with non-affiliates                       1,528.2     583.7
Stockholders' equity                                     3,568.4   3,140.7
    Total liabilities and stockholders'equity           $7,377.3   5,918.5




                                     

STATEMENTS OF INCOME

In millions

Year ended December 31,                        1993        1992       1991

Income
Dividends from subsidiaries
  Banks                                      $395.1       311.5      102.6
  Non-banks                                   215.7       168.8      107.6
    Total dividends from subsidiaries         610.8       480.3      210.2
Interest from subsidiaries                     91.2       109.1      173.4
Service fees from subsidiaries                 58.0        50.0       45.5
Other income                                   38.2        29.0       21.8
    Total income                              798.2       668.4      450.9
Expenses
Interest to subsidiaries                        1.5         1.0        1.7
Other interest                                140.0       134.0      191.7
Other expenses                                113.0       140.8       56.8
    Total expenses                            254.5       275.8      250.2
Income before income taxes, equity in
 undistributed earnings of subsidiaries,
 and cumulative effect of a change in
 accounting for postretirement
 medical benefits                             543.7       392.6      200.7
Income tax benefit                             24.4        43.3       39.9
Income before equity in undistributed
 earnings of subsidiaries and cumulative
 effect of a change in accounting for
 postretirement medical benefits              568.1       435.9      240.6
Equity in undistributed earnings 
 of subsidiaries                               85.5         4.2      160.3
Income before cumulative effect of a 
 change in accounting for postretirement
 medical benefits                             653.6       440.1      400.9
Cumulative effect on years  ended prior
 to December 31, 1992 of a change in 
 accounting for post retirement medical
 benefits net of tax                              -       (76.0)         -
Net income                                   $653.6       364.1      400.9






STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

In millions                                        1993      1992     1991

Year ended December 31,

Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Net income                                     $  653.6     364.1    400.9
Adjustments to reconcile net income 
 to net cash flows from operating activities:
Cumulative effect on years ended prior 
 to December 31, 1992 of a change in
 accounting for postretirement
 medical benefits, net of tax                         -      76.0        -
Equity in undistributed earnings of
 subsidiaries                                     (85.5)     (4.2)  (160.3)
Depreciation and amortization                      12.2      12.9     12.9
Other assets, net                                  (3.7)    (36.4)     9.4
Accrued expenses and other liabilities, net        32.0      (5.9)   (41.3)
Net cash flows from operating activities          608.6     406.5    221.6
Cash Flows From Investing Activities
Advances to non-bank subsidiaries, net           (762.5)    580.8   (328.5)
Investment securities, net                        (63.5)     46.5    (56.9)
Investment securities available for sale, net      14.5    (105.9)       -
Principal collected on capital notes and
 term loans of subsidiaries                        23.3      75.6    383.5
Capital notes and term loans
 made to subsidiaries                            (218.2)   (143.2)  (322.1)
Investment in subsidiaries, net                  (354.0)   (241.6)  (220.0)
Net cash flows from (used for)
 investing activities                          (1,360.4)    212.2   (544.0)
Cash Flows From Financing Activities
Short-term borrowings, net                         84.3    (158.8)   (20.6)
Taxes receivable from affiliates, net               4.7      (4.7)     2.8
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt
 with non-affiliates                            1,263.2         -     25.0
Repayment of long-term debt with
 non-affiliates                                  (312.4)   (137.5)  (148.9)
Issuances of common stock                          55.6      35.3    222.4
Repurchases of common stock                      (124.3)    (85.9)    (5.4)
Issuances of preferred stock                          -         -    225.4
Redemption of preferred stock                      (0.7)     (2.9)   (30.4)
Net decrease in ESOP loans                          3.2       3.0      8.1
Dividends paid                                   (212.8)   (179.0)  (142.4)
Net cash flows from (used for)
 financing activities                             760.8    (530.5)   136.0
Net increase (decrease) in
 cash and cash equivalents                          9.0      88.2   (186.4)
Cash and cash equivalents
  Beginning of year                               146.4      58.2    244.6
  End of year                                  $  155.4     146.4     58.2






Federal law prevents the corporation from borrowing from its subsidiary 
banks unless loans are secured by specified assets and with respect to 
the corporation and any affiliate other than a bank, such secured loans 
by any subsidiary bank are generally limited to 10 percent of the 
subsidiary bank's capital and surplus and aggregate loans to the 
corporation and its non-bank subsidiaries are limited to 20 percent of 
the subsidiary bank's capital and surplus.

The payment of dividends to the corporation by subsidiary banks is 
subject to various federal and state regulatory limitations.  A national 
bank must obtain the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency if the 
total of all dividends declared in any calendar year exceeds the bank's 
net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the 
preceeding two calendar years.  Under this formula, at December 31, 1993 
the corporation's national banks could have declared $483.2 million of 
aggregate dividends, in addition to amounts previously paid, without the 
approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, subject to minimum 
regulatory capital requirements.  In addition, the corporation's non-bank 
subsidiaries could have declared dividends totaling $803.4 million.








INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND
STOCKHOLDERS OF NORWEST CORPORATION

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Norwest Corporation 
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1993 and 1992 and the related 
consolidated statements of income, cash flows and stockholders' equity 
for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1993.  
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the 
Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are 
free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test 
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial 
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles 
used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating 
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits 
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 
Norwest Corporation and subsidiaries at December 31, 1993 and 1992, and 
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the 
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1993, in conformity 
with generally accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, Norwest 
Corporation adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards 
Board's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, "Employers' 
Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" in 1992.


By /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick
KPMG Peat Marwick

Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 19, 1994







MANAGEMENT'S REPORT


The management of Norwest Corporation has prepared and is responsible for 
the contents of the financial statements included in this annual report 
and the information contained in other sections of this annual report, 
which information is consistent with the content of the financial 
statements.  Management believes that the financial statements have been 
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles 
appropriate in the circumstances to reflect, in all material respects, 
the substance of events and transactions that should be included.  In 
preparing the financial statements, management makes judgments and 
estimates of the expected effects of events and transactions that are 
accounted for or disclosed. 

Management has long recognized the importance of the corporation 
maintaining and reinforcing the highest possible standards of conduct in 
all of its actions, including the preparation and dissemination of 
statements fairly presenting the financial condition of the corporation.  
In this regard, it has developed a system of internal accounting control 
which plays an important role in assisting management in fulfilling its 
responsibilities in preparing the corporation's financial statements.  
The corporation's system of internal accounting control is designed to 
provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that 
transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorizations.  
This system is augmented by written policies, operating procedures and 
accounting manuals, plus a strong program of internal audit carried out 
by qualified personnel.  Management recognizes that estimates and 
judgments are required to assess and balance the relative costs and 
expected benefits of the controls and errors or irregularities may 
nevertheless occur.  However, management believes that the corporation's 
internal accounting control system provides reasonable assurance that 
errors or irregularities that could be material to the financial 
statements are prevented or would be detected on a timely basis and 
corrected in the normal course of business.

The board of directors oversees these financial statements through an 
audit and examination committee comprised of outside directors.  The 
committee meets periodically with management and internal audit to 
monitor the discharge  by each of its responsibilities.  The independent 
auditors, who are engaged to express an opinion on the financial 
statements, meet periodically with and have free access to the committee 
or the board, without management present, to discuss internal accounting 
control, auditing and financial reporting matters.


By /s/ Richard M. Kovacevich
Richard M. Kovacevich
President and Chief Executive Officer


By /s/ John T. Thornton
John T. Thornton
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


By /s/ Michael A. Graf
Michael A. Graf
Senior Vice President and Controller

January 19, 1994






Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

SIX-YEAR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SUMMARY



   *Excluding the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for
    postretirement medical benefits, 1992 primary net income per common
    share would have been $1.42, fully diluted net income per common
    share would have been $1.41, return on common equity would have
    been 15.2%, return on total equity would have been 14.4%, and net
    income per $100 of average assets would have been $1.03.
  **Based on average balances and net income for the periods.
 ***The ratio of average assets to average stockholders' equity.
****Information not available for periods prior to 1990.

 


Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND RELATED YIELDS AND RATES*



  *Interest income/expense and yields/rates are calculated on a
   tax-equivalent basis utilizing a federal incremental tax rate of 35%
   in 1993 and 34% in each preceding period presented.  Non-accrual loans
   and the related negative income effect has been included in the 
   calculation of average rates.
NM-Not meaningful









Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

INCOME STATEMENT DATA




  *Changes in the average balance/rate are allocated based on the percentage
   relationship of the change in average balance or average rate to the total
   increase (decrease).
NM-Not meaningful





Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

LOAN INFORMATION







Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

OTHER BALANCE SHEET DATA

Maturity of Total Investment Securities*









*Based on contracted maturities.
**The yield on state, municipal and housing securities is increased by the
benefit of tax exemption, assuming a 35% federal income tax rate.  For the
year ended December 31, 1993, the amount of the increases in the yields for
these securities and for total securities available for sale is 2.12% and
0.02%, respectively, and for total securities held for investment is 3.99%
and 2.88%, respectively.
***Excludes leases of $655 million and consumer and residential mortgage
loans of $16,775 million.
****There were no time deposits of less than $100,000 in 1993.





Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

QUARTERLY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION




*Excluding the cumulative effect of a change in accounting for postretirement
medical benefits, 1992 first quarter primary net income per common share
would have been $0.37, fully diluted net income per common share would have
been $0.36, 1992 return on assets would have been 1.09%, and 1992 return on
common equity would have been 16.7%.
**Based on average balances and net income for the periods.
***Restated to reflect the adoption of FAS 106.


(CONTINUED ON PAGE 93)





Norwest Corporation and Subsidiaries

QUARTERLY CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (CONTINUED FROM PAGE 92 )



*Restated to reflect the adoption of FAS 106.

The financial information on pages 92 and 93 is unaudited.  In the opinion of
managment, all adjustments necessary (which are of a normal recurring nature)
have been included for a fair presentation of the results of operations.




