
10-K
FORM 10-K




                                 UNITED STATES

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999   Commission File Number 001-2979

                              WELLS FARGO & COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    Delaware                          No. 41-0449260
            (State of incorporation)                 (I.R.S. Employer
                                                     Identification No.)

             420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 1-800-411-4932

                 Former name of registrant: Norwest Corporation

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:


          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.                    Yes x  No
                                                                 --    --

          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

          As of February 29, 2000, 1,623,901,005 shares of common stock were
outstanding having an aggregate market value, based on a closing price of $33.06
per share, of $53,690 million. At that date, the aggregate market value of
common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $52,508 million.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders - Incorporated into Parts I,
II and IV. Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders - Incorporated into Part III.





                         FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX

(1)  The 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders, portions of which are incorporated
     by reference into this Form 10-K.
(2)  The information required to be submitted in response to these items is
     incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for
     the 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 25, 2000, to be
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
     Regulation 14A.
(3)  Not applicable.


DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

GENERAL

Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company organized
under the laws of Delaware and registered under the Bank Holding Company Act
(BHC Act) of 1956, as amended. Based on assets as of December 31, 1999, it
was the seventh largest bank holding company in the United States. As a
diversified financial services organization, Wells Fargo & Company (Parent)
owns subsidiaries engaged in banking and a variety of related businesses.
Subsidiaries of the Parent provide retail, commercial and corporate banking
services through banks located in Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico,
North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington, Wisconsin
and Wyoming. Additional financial services are provided to customers by
subsidiaries engaged in various businesses: principally wholesale banking,
mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural finance,
commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance
agency services, computer and data processing services, trust services,
mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment. Wells
Fargo & Company together with its subsidiaries is referred to in this report
as the Company. As of December 31, 1999, its significant subsidiaries, as
defined by Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules, are (a) Norwest
Bank Minnesota, N.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries, (b) Norwest Limited,
L.L.C., (c) Norwest Venture Partners VI, LP, and (d) WFC Holdings Corporation
and its consolidated subsidiaries, including its principal subsidiary, Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A.

On November 2, 1998, the merger involving Norwest Corporation and Wells Fargo
& Company (the Merger) was completed. Norwest Corporation changed its name to
"Wells Fargo & Company" and the former Wells Fargo & Company (the former
Wells Fargo) became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Norwest Corporation. Norwest
Corporation as it was before the Merger is referred to as the former Norwest.
The Merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly, the
information included in this Form 10-K presents the combined results as if
the Merger had been in effect for all periods presented.

The Company has four operating segments for the purpose of management reporting:
Community Banking, Wholesale Banking, Norwest Mortgage and Norwest Financial.
Financial information and narrative descriptions of these operating segments are
included in the 1999 Annual Report to Stockholders, incorporated by reference
herein.

HISTORY AND GROWTH

The former Norwest provided banking services to customers in 16 states and
additional financial services through subsidiaries engaged in a variety of
businesses including mortgage banking and consumer finance.

The former Wells Fargo's principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., continues
to be a significant subsidiary of the new Company. The bank was the successor to
the banking portion of the business founded by Henry Wells and William G. Fargo
in 1852. That business later




operated the westernmost leg of the Pony Express and ran stagecoach lines in
the western part of the United States. The California banking business was
separated from the express business in 1905, was merged in 1960 with American
Trust Company, another of the oldest banks in the Western United States, and
became Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., a national banking association, in 1968.

The former Wells Fargo acquired First Interstate Bancorp in April 1996. First
Interstate's assets had an approximate book value of $55 billion. The
transaction was valued at approximately $11.3 billion and was accounted for as a
purchase.

The Company expands its business, in part, by acquiring banking institutions and
other companies engaged in activities closely related to banking. The Company
continues to explore opportunities to acquire banking institutions and other
companies. Discussions are continually being carried on related to such
acquisitions. It is not presently known whether, or on what terms, such
discussions will result in further acquisitions. Generally it is the policy of
the Company not to comment on such discussions or possible acquisitions until a
definitive acquisition agreement has been signed.

COMPETITION

The financial services industry is highly competitive. The Company's
subsidiaries compete with financial services providers, such as banks, savings
and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banking
companies, insurance companies, and money market and mutual fund companies. They
also face increased competition from non-banking institutions such as brokerage
houses and insurance companies, as well as from financial services subsidiaries
of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy the
benefits of fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures.

Effective March 13, 2000, securities firms and insurance companies that elect to
become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial
institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which
the Company and its subsidiaries conduct business. The financial services
industry is also likely to become more competitive as further technological
advances enable more companies to provide financial services. These
technological advances may diminish the importance of depository institutions
and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds between parties.

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

The following discussion, together with Notes 3 and 22 to Financial Statements,
incorporated by reference herein, sets forth the material elements of the
regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries
and provides certain specific information relevant to the Company. This
regulatory framework is intended primarily for the protection of depositors,
federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not for
the protection of security holders. To the extent that the information describes
statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by
reference to those provisions. Further,



such statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by
Congress and state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. A
change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the
Company or its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business of
the Company.

This regulatory environment, among other things, may restrict the Company's
ability to diversify into certain areas of financial services, acquire
depository institutions in certain states, and pay dividends on the Company's
capital stock. It may also require the Company to provide financial support to
one or more of its subsidiary banks, maintain capital balances in excess of
those desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a
result of the deterioration in the financial condition of depository
institutions in general.

GENERAL

PARENT BANK HOLDING COMPANY. As a bank holding company (BHC), the Company is
subject to regulation, inspection, examination and supervision by the Federal
Reserve Board (FRB).

SUBSIDIARY BANKS. The Company's national subsidiary banks are subject to
regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (OCC) and secondarily by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) and the FRB. The Company's state-chartered banks are subject to primary
federal regulation and examination by the FDIC or the FRB and, in addition, are
regulated and examined by their respective state banking departments.

NONBANK SUBSIDIARIES. Many of the Company's nonbank subsidiaries are also
subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state
agencies. The Company's brokerage subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and state securities
regulators. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
applicable state insurance regulatory agencies. Other nonbank subsidiaries of
the Company are subject to the laws and regulations of both the federal
government and the various states in which they conduct business.

PARENT BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACTIVITIES

PERMITTED ACTIVITIES. Prior to March 13, 2000, a BHC generally was prohibited
under the BHC Act from acquiring the beneficial ownership or control of more
than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all the assets of any company,
including a bank, without the FRB's prior approval. Also, prior to March 13,
2000, a BHC generally was limited to engaging in banking and such other
activities as determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking.

Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the GLB Act), beginning March 13,
2000, an eligible BHC may elect to become a financial holding company and
thereafter affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in
other activities that are financial in nature. The GLB Act defines "financial in
nature" to include securities underwriting, dealing and market making;
sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance



underwriting and agency; merchant banking activities; activities that the FRB
has determined to be closely related to banking; and other activities that
the FRB, after consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines by
regulation or order to be financial in nature or incidental to a financial
activity. No FRB approval is required for a financial holding company to
acquire a company, other than a BHC, bank or savings association, engaged in
activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are
financial in nature, as defined in the GLB Act or as determined by the FRB.

A BHC is eligible to become a financial holding company if each of its
subsidiary banks and savings associations is well capitalized under the prompt
corrective action provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the FDI Act),
is well managed and has a rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) of
satisfactory or better. If any bank or savings association subsidiary of a
financial holding company ceases to be well capitalized or well managed, the FRB
may require the financial holding company to divest the subsidiary.
Alternatively, the financial holding company may elect to conform its activities
to those permissible for BHCs that do not elect to become financial holding
companies. If any bank or savings association subsidiary of a financial holding
company receives a CRA rating of less than satisfactory, the financial holding
company will be prohibited from engaging in new activities or acquiring
companies other than BHCs, banks or savings associations.

The Company became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000. It
continues to maintain its status as a BHC for purposes of other FRB regulations.

INTERSTATE BANKING. Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act
(Riegle-Neal Act), a BHC may acquire banks in states other than its home state,
subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating
for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that
the BHC not control, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than
10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions
nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the BHC's initial entry into the state,
more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount
set by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby
creating interstate branches. States may opt out of the Riegle-Neal Act and
thereby prohibit interstate mergers in the state. The Company will be unable to
consolidate its banking operations in one state with those of another state if
either state in question has opted out of the Riegle-Neal Act. Of the Company's
banking states, only the state of Montana has opted out until at least the year
2001.

REGULATORY APPROVAL. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank
acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the
effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be
received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a
post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution's record of addressing the
credit needs of the communities it serves, including the needs of low and
moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of
the bank, under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended.




DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

Wells Fargo & Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its
subsidiary banks and other subsidiaries. Its principal source of funds to pay
dividends on its common and preferred stock and debt service on its debt is
dividends from its subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory provisions
and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Company's subsidiary banks and
certain other subsidiaries of the Company may pay without regulatory approval.
For information about the restrictions applicable to the Company's subsidiary
banks, see Note 3 to Financial Statements, incorporated by reference herein.

Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Company's
subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting
their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition
of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The
ability of the Company's subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is
currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and
capital guidelines.

HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE

TRANSFER OF FUNDS FROM SUBSIDIARY BANKS. The Company's subsidiary banks are
subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or
other items of value from such subsidiaries to the Parent and its nonbank
subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called "covered transactions."  In
general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as other transactions involving the
transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of
an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary
bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10% of the subsidiary bank's capital
and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the
aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank's capital and surplus. Also, loans and
extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured in
specified amounts.

SOURCE OF STRENGTH DOCTRINE. The FRB has a policy that a BHC is expected to act
as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks
and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to support each such
subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when the BHC may not have
the resources to provide it. Capital loans by a BHC to any of its subsidiary
banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other
indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, in the event of a BHC's
bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to
maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy
trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

DEPOSITOR PREFERENCE. The FDI Act provides that, in the event of the
"liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the
claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as
subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative
expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other general
unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository



institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC,
will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors,
including the institution's parent holding company.

LIABILITY OF COMMONLY CONTROLLED INSTITUTIONS. Under the FDI Act, an insured
depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably
expected to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with (a) the default of a
commonly controlled insured depository institution or (b) any assistance
provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository institution in
danger of default. "Default" is defined generally as the appointment of a
conservator or receiver and "in danger of default" is defined generally as the
existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in
the absence of regulatory assistance.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

The Company is subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed
by the FRB, which are substantially similar to the capital requirements and
guidelines imposed by the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions
within their respective jurisdictions. For information about these capital
requirements and guidelines, see Note 22 to Financial Statements, incorporated
by reference herein.

The FRB's capital guidelines provide that banking organizations experiencing
internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong
capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without
significant reliance on intangible assets. Also, the guidelines indicate that
the FRB will consider a "tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio" in evaluating
proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio
is the ratio of a banking organization's Tier 1 capital (excluding
intangibles) to average total assets (excluding intangibles).

The FRB, the FDIC and the OCC also have adopted rules to incorporate market and
interest rate risk components into their risk-based capital standards. Under the
market risk requirements, capital will be allocated to support the amount of
market risk related to a financial institution's ongoing trading activities.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of
depository institutions, the FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies
to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for institutions
for which they are the primary federal regulator. The standards relate generally
to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and
executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take action against
institutions that fail to meet such standards.

The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take "prompt corrective
action" with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet
minimum capital requirements. A depository institution's treatment for purposes
of the prompt corrective action provisions will



depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and
certain other factors, as established by regulation.

FDIC INSURANCE

Through the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF), the FDIC insures the deposits of the
Company's depository institution subsidiaries up to prescribed per depositor
limits. The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each BIF member institution is
based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios
and other factors. Specifically, the assessment rate is based on the
institution's capitalization risk category and supervisory subgroup category. An
institution's capitalization risk category is based on the FDIC's determination
of whether the institution is well capitalized, adequately capitalized or less
than adequately capitalized. An institution's supervisory subgroup category is
based on the FDIC's assessment of the financial condition of the institution and
the probability that FDIC intervention or other corrective action will be
required.

The BIF assessment rate currently ranges from zero to 27 cents per $100 of
domestic deposits. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate
schedule on a semiannual basis. An increase in the BIF assessment rate could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's earnings, depending on the
amount of the increase. The FDIC is authorized to terminate a depository
institution's deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the
institution's financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution
has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule,
regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution's
regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for one or more of the
Company's subsidiary depository institutions could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's earnings, depending on the collective size of the
particular institutions involved.

All FDIC-insured depository institutions must pay an annual assessment to
provide funds for the payment of interest on bonds issued by the Financing
Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the authority of the Federal
Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were
issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
FDIC-insured depository institutions paid approximately 2.1 cents per $100 of
BIF-assessable deposits in 1999, and will continue to pay as assessed until the
earlier of December 31, 2000 or the date the last savings and loan association
ceases to exist. Thereafter, they will pay an assessment rate equal to the rate
assessed on deposits insured by the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICIES

The Company's business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and
monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Company is
particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of
money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy
available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States
government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of
depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against
depository



institutions' deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements
against certain borrowing by banks and their affiliates. These methods are
used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability
of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans
and paid on deposits. For that reason alone, the policies of the FRB have a
material effect on the earnings of the Company.

ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME

The following table allocates the changes in net interest income on a
taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or average rates
for both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Because of
the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is not
possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume and rate. For this
table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to
these categories in proportion to the percentage changes in average volume and
average rate.





LOAN PORTFOLIO

The following table presents the remaining contractual principal maturities of
selected loan categories at December 31, 1999 and a summary of the major
categories of loans outstanding at the end of the last five years. At December
31, 1999, the Company did not have loan concentrations that exceeded 10% of
total loans, except as shown below.






The table at the top of the following page summarizes other real estate loans by
state and property type. The table at the bottom of the following page
summarizes real estate construction loans by state and project type.



REAL ESTATE MORTGAGE LOANS BY STATE AND TYPE
(excluding 1-4 family first mortgages)



(1) Represents loans to real estate developers secured by 1-4 family
    residential developments.

(2) Consists of 40 states; no state had loans in excess of $928 million at
    December 31, 1999.


REAL ESTATE CONSTRUCTION LOANS BY STATE AND TYPE



(1) Consists of 33 states; no state had loans in excess of $280 million at
    December 31, 1999.



CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES





The SEC requires the Company to present the ratio of the allowance for loan
losses to total nonaccrual loans. This ratio was 477% and 442% at December 31,
1999 and 1998, respectively. This ratio may fluctuate significantly from period
to period due to such factors as the mix of loan types in the portfolio, the
prospects of borrowers and the value and marketability of collateral as well as,
for the nonaccrual portfolio taken as a whole, wide variances from period to
period in terms of delinquency and relationship of book to contractual principal
balance. Classification of a loan as nonaccrual does not necessarily indicate
that the principal of a loan is uncollectible in whole or in part. Consequently,
the ratio of the allowance for loan losses to nonaccrual loans, taken alone and
without taking into account numerous additional factors, is not a reliable
indicator of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Indicators of the
credit quality of the Company's loan portfolio and the method of determining the
allowance for loan losses are discussed below and in greater detail in the 1999
Annual Report to Stockholders, incorporated by reference herein.

ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

The table on page 16 provides a breakdown of the allowance for loan losses by
loan category. The Company has an established process to determine the adequacy
of the allowance for loan losses which assesses the risk and losses inherent in
its portfolio. This process provides an allowance consisting of two components,
allocated and unallocated. To arrive at the allocated component of the
allowance, the Company combines estimates of the allowances needed for loans
analyzed individually (including impaired loans subject to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 114 (FAS 114), ACCOUNTING BY CREDITORS FOR
IMPAIRMENT OF A LOAN) and loans analyzed on a pool basis.

The determination of allocated reserves for portfolios of larger commercial and
commercial real estate loans involves a review of individual higher-risk
transactions, focusing on the accuracy of loan grading, assessments of specific
loss content and, in some cases, strategies for resolving problem credits. These
considerations supplement the application of loss factors delineated by
individual loan grade to the existing distribution of risk exposures, thus
framing an assessment of inherent losses across the entire wholesale lending
portfolio segment which is responsive to shifts in portfolio risk content. The
loss factors used for this analysis have been derived from migration models
which track actual portfolio movements from problem asset loan grades to loss
over a 5 to 10 year period. In the case of pass loan grades, the loss factors
are derived from analogous loss experience in public debt markets, calibrated to
the long-term average loss experience of the Company's portfolios. The loan loss
reserve allocations arrived at through this factor methodology are adjusted
based on management's judgment concerning the effect of recent economic events
on portfolio performance.

In the case of more homogeneous portfolios, such as consumer loans and leases,
residential mortgage loans and some segments of small business lending, the
determination of allocated reserves is conducted at a more aggregate, or pooled,
level. For portfolios of this nature, the risk assessment process emphasizes the
development of rigorous forecasting models, which focus on recent delinquency
and loss trends in different portfolio segments to project relevant risk metrics
over an intermediate-term horizon. Such analyses are updated frequently to



capture the most recent behavioral characteristics of the subject portfolios,
as well as any changes in management's loss mitigation or customer
solicitation strategies, in order to reduce the differences between estimated
and observed losses. A reserve which approximates one year of projected net
losses is provided as the baseline allocation for most homogeneous
portfolios, to which management may add certain adjustments to ensure that a
prudent amount of conservatism is present in the specific assumptions
underlying that forecast.

While coverage of one year's losses is often adequate (particularly for
homogeneous pools of loans and leases), the time period covered by the allowance
may vary by portfolio, based on the Company's best estimate of the inherent
losses in the entire portfolio as of the evaluation date. To mitigate the
imprecision inherent in most estimates of expected credit losses, the allocated
component of the allowance is supplemented by an unallocated component. The
unallocated component includes management's judgmental determination of the
amounts necessary for concentrations, economic uncertainties and other
subjective factors; correspondingly, the relationship of the unallocated
component to the total allowance for loan losses may fluctuate from period to
period. Although management has allocated a portion of the allowance to specific
loan categories, the adequacy of the allowance must be considered in its
entirety.

At December 31, 1999, the allowance for loan losses was $3,170 million, or 2.65%
of total loans, compared with $3,134 million, or 2.90%, at December 31, 1998.
During 1999, net charge-offs exceeded the provision for loan losses by $4
million; however, the addition of $40 million of allowances related to business
combinations in 1999 accounted for the net increase of $36 million in the
reserve, year over year. The components of the allowance, allocated and
unallocated, are shown in the table on page 16. The allocated component declined
to $1,767 million from $1,968 million, while the unallocated component grew to
$1,403 million from $1,166 million, as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

The $201 million reduction in the allocated component was substantially due to
the lower allocated allowance to loans outstanding ratios in the other consumer,
commercial loan, and other real estate mortgage portfolios. In total, lower
allocated reserve ratios resulted in a reduction of roughly $361 million in
allocated reserves, primarily a reflection of lower projected loss rates in the
loan portfolio. Of this reduction, $90 million was attributable to the domestic
portfolio of Norwest Financial, although the overall reserve in that entity
actually increased by virtue of additions to the unallocated portion of the
reserve. An additional $106 million was attributable to various other consumer
lending products. Finally, the commercial loan and other real estate mortgage
portfolios showed continuing gradual improvement in problem asset trends. The
improvements in the credit quality of those portfolios translated into a
reduction of approximately $132 million in the allocated reserve. Other smaller
portfolios accounted for the remaining $33 million in allocated reserve ratio
reductions during the year.

These changes in the allocated reserve relate primarily to projected rates of
loss in different portfolio segments. Analyzing the movements in the allocated
reserve strictly from a loan volume perspective indicates that, had the ratio of
allocated reserves to loans outstanding remained flat with the 1998 ratio of
1.82%, allocated reserves would have increased by roughly




$208 million, as loans outstanding grew by $11.5 billion during the year.
However, due to a shift in portfolio composition, the higher volume increased
the allocated reserve by only $160 million, as relatively lower-risk
commercial loans, residential first and second mortgages, and lease financing
grew at a faster pace than higher-risk credit cards and other consumer loans.

There were no material changes in estimation methods and assumptions for the
allowance that took place during 1999. Relatively minor differences existed in
the methodologies for deriving the allocated portion of the allowance employed
by the former Norwest and the former Wells Fargo; these differences were
reconciled in the first quarter of 1999.

The Company considers the allowance for loan losses of $3,170 million
adequate to cover losses inherent in loans, loan commitments, and standby and
other letters of credit at December 31, 1999.

The foregoing discussion contains forward-looking statements about the adequacy
of the Company's reserves for loan losses. These forward-looking statements are
inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. A number of factors--many of
which are beyond the Company's control--could cause actual losses to be more
than estimated losses. These factors include changes in business and economic
conditions that could increase the number of customers and counterparties who
become delinquent or who default on their loans or other obligations to the
Company. For a discussion of some of the other factors that could cause actual
losses to be more than estimated losses, see "Factors that May Affect Future
Results" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations," incorporated by reference herein.




ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES



(1)  This amount and any unabsorbed portion of the allocated allowance are also
     available for any of the above listed loan categories.


PROPERTIES

The Company owns and occupies its 340,000 square foot headquarters at 420
Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California. In addition, the Company leases
and occupies approximately 488,000 square feet in the Norwest Center, Sixth &
Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota, which is a 1.1 million square foot office
tower owned in part by a subsidiary of the Company. Major office and operational
facilities are owned or leased in Arizona, California, Colorado, Iowa,
Minnesota, Oregon, South Dakota and Texas. Approximately 5,500 stores and
secondary office facilities are owned or leased throughout the United States and
some foreign countries.

For further information with respect to premises and equipment and commitments
under noncancelable leases for premises and equipment, refer to Note 6 to
Financial Statements, incorporated by reference herein.





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT












There is no family relationship among the above officers. All executive officers
serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.



EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)   Financial Statements, Schedules and Exhibits:

      (1)    The consolidated financial statements and related notes, the
             independent auditors' report thereon and supplementary data that
             appear on pages 52 through 98 of the 1999 Annual Report to
             Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

      (2)    Financial Statement Schedules:

             All schedules are omitted, because they are either not applicable
             or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
             statements or the notes thereto.

      (3) Exhibits:

             The Company's SEC file number is 001-2979. On or before November 2,
             1998, the Company filed documents with the SEC under the name
             Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo filed documents under
             SEC file number 001-6214.

- ----------------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

Stockholders may obtain a copy of any Exhibit, in Item 14(a)(3), upon payment of
a reasonable fee, by writing Wells Fargo & Company, Office of the Secretary,
Norwest Center, N9305-173, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.



STATUS OF PRIOR DOCUMENTS

The Wells Fargo & Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 1999, at the time of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
shall modify and supersede all documents filed prior to January 1, 2000 pursuant
to Sections 13, 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (other than
the Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 14, 1997, containing a description
of the Company's common stock) for purposes of any offers or sales of any
securities after the date of such filing pursuant to any Registration Statement
or Prospectus filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 which incorporates by
reference such Annual Report on Form 10-K.



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 15, 2000.

                                   WELLS FARGO & COMPANY

                                   BY:    /s/ Richard M. Kovacevich
                                          -------------------------------------
                                          Richard M. Kovacevich
                                          President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated.

                                   By:     /s/ Ross J. Kari
                                           ------------------------------------
                                           Ross J. Kari
                                           Executive Vice President and
                                           Chief Financial Officer
                                           (Principal Financial Officer)

                                   By:     /s/ Les L. Quock
                                           ------------------------------------
                                           Les L. Quock
                                           Senior Vice President and Controller
                                           (Principal Accounting Officer)

The Directors of Wells Fargo & Company listed below have duly executed powers of
attorney empowering Philip J. Quigley to sign this document on their behalf.



                                   By:     /s/ Philip J. Quigley
                                           ------------------------------------
                                           Philip J. Quigley
                                           Director and Attorney-in-fact
                                           March 15, 2000


