
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
                                                 COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-11758
================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                      -----------------------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                                  ANNUAL REPORT
                       PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996

                           DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
                      -----------------------------------

                         DELAWARE                           36-3145972
              (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF  (IRS EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION NO.)
              INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)
                  TWO WORLD TRADE CENTER
                    NEW YORK, NEW YORK                            10048
         (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)               (ZIP CODE)

      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (212) 392-2222
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

               TITLE OF EACH CLASS     NAME OF EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
            ------------------------   -------------------------------------
         Common Stock--$.01 par value        New York Stock Exchange
                                             Pacific Stock Exchange

        Rights to Purchase Series A          New York Stock Exchange
         Junior Participating                Pacific Stock Exchange
            Preferred Stock

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT: NONE
    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X    No     .
                                              ----    ----
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

    As of February 28, 1997, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held
by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately $12,275,079,787.75. For
purposes of this information, the outstanding shares of Common Stock owned by
the directors and executive officers of the Company were deemed to be held by
affiliates, and the Dean Witter START Plan (Savings Today Affords Retirement
Tomorrow), the SPS Transaction Services, Inc. START Plan (Savings Today Affords
Retirement Tomorrow), the Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Account Executive
Productivity Compensation Plan, the Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Branch Manager
Compensation Plan and the Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Employee Stock Purchase
Plan were deemed to be non-affiliates.

    APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS: Indicate the number of shares
outstanding of each of the Registrant's classes of common stock, as of the
latest practicable date.

           321,595,672 shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, as of
February 28, 1997.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1. Dean Witter, Discover & Co. 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders (for the
   fiscal year ended December 31, 1996). Certain information contained in this
   document is incorporated by reference in Parts I and II.
2. Joint Proxy Statement of Dean Witter, Discover & Co. and Morgan Stanley Group
   Inc. in respect of 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Dean Witter,
   Discover & Co. (to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 1996). Certain
   information contained in this document is incorporated by reference in Part
   III.
================================================================================

 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL

   Proposed Merger With Morgan Stanley Group Inc.

        On February 5, 1997, Dean Witter, Discover & Co. (the "Company") and
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") announced a definitive agreement to
merge. The combined company would be a preeminent global financial services firm
with a market capitalization of approximately $21 billion (as of the time of the
merger announcement) and with leading market positions in the securities, asset
management and credit services businesses. The new company would be named Morgan
Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Co.

        The merger would combine the Company's leading franchises in providing
investment and asset management products and services and quality consumer
credit products to its customers with Morgan Stanley's leading franchises in the
origination of quality underwritten products, investment banking, research and
institutional sales and trading. Through a network of 28 principal offices in 19
countries, Morgan Stanley offers a wide range of financial services to sovereign
governments, corporations, institutions and individuals. A leader in investment
banking since its formation in 1935, Morgan Stanley ranked first in global
mergers and acquisition announced transactions in 1996 according to Securities
Data Corporation and held leading positions in debt and equity underwriting. In
asset management, the combination would result in a business that manages more
than $270 billion of assets on a pro forma basis.

        Under the terms of the merger agreement unanimously approved by the
boards of directors of both companies, each of Morgan Stanley's common shares
will be exchanged for 1.65 of the Company's common shares. Morgan Stanley
preferred shares outstanding at the date of the merger will be exchanged for
preferred shares of the Company having substantially identical terms. The
transaction, which is expected to be completed in mid-1997, is intended to be a
tax-free exchange and accounted for as a pooling of interests and is subject to
customary closing conditions, including certain regulatory approvals and the
approvals of shareholders of both companies. Pursuant to the pooling of
interests method of accounting, prior to the time of closing each company will
formally rescind stock repurchase authorizations existing at that time.

       Because the merger would occur subsequent to December 31, 1996, unless
otherwise stated, the information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
does not give effect to its impact.

  Background and Overview

    The Company is a diversified financial services organization that provides a
broad range of nationally marketed credit and investment products, with a
primary focus on individual customers. The Company has two principal lines of
business: credit services and securities. Its credit services business ("Credit
Services") consists primarily of the issuance, marketing and servicing of
general purpose credit cards. Credit Services is the largest single domestic
issuer of general purpose credit cards as measured by number of accounts and
cardmembers. Discover(R) Card is the Company's most widely held proprietary
general purpose credit card and generated a majority of Credit Services'
revenues and net income in 1996. The Company's securities business
("Securities") is conducted primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries,
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. ("DWR") and Dean Witter InterCapital Inc.
("InterCapital"). DWR is a full-service securities firm that engages in a wide
variety of securities activities, with a particular focus on serving the
investment needs of its individual clients through over 9,000 account
executives. DWR is among the largest members of the New York Stock Exchange (the
"NYSE") and is a member of other major securities, futures and options
exchanges. InterCapital, with total assets of $90.0 billion under management and
administration as of December 31, 1996, is one of the largest asset management
operations in the United States.


 
     The Company traces its origins to Dean Witter & Co., organized in 1924. In
1978, Dean Witter & Co. Incorporated (the successor to Dean Witter & Co.) merged
with Reynolds Securities Inc., and in 1981 Dean Witter Reynolds Organization
Inc. was acquired by Sears, Roebuck and Co. ("Sears"). Until early 1993, the
Company was a wholly owned subsidiary of Sears. On March 1, 1993, the Company
completed an initial public offering of approximately 20% of its Common Stock.
On June 30, 1993, Sears divested the remaining Company shares it then owned in a
special dividend to its shareholders.

    Information concerning revenues and net income for each of the Company's
business segments for the five years ended December 31, 1996, and concerning
identifiable assets for each business segment as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and
1994, is included, respectively, in Management's Discussion and Analysis on
pages 19 and 25, and in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on
page 45, of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated
herein by reference.

  Employees

    As of December 31, 1996, the Company had 33,084 employees, of whom 14,450
were employed by Credit Services and 18,634 by Securities. None of the Company's
employees is covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

CREDIT SERVICES

OVERVIEW

    Credit Services, which accounted for 52% and 47% of the Company's net income
in 1995 and 1996, respectively, focuses on the delivery of financial products to
consumers through its four business units. The business units are:

    NOVUS Services: a nationwide credit card business involving the issuance of
proprietary general purpose credit cards bearing the NOVUS(R) logo and the
operation of the NOVUS Network, the Company's proprietary merchant and cash
access network (the "NOVUS Network"). NOVUS Services' credit cards, which
include the Discover Card, Private Issue(R) Card, BRAVO(R) Card and affinity
program cards, are accepted nationwide at NOVUS Network locations for purchases
and cash advances.

     Prime Option Services: an organization that markets a co-branded
MasterCard(R) general purpose credit card under the brand name Prime Option(R).

     SPS Transaction Services, Inc. ("SPS"): a 74% owned, publicly held
subsidiary of the Company. SPS provides technology-based outsourcing services.
SPS' primary services include electronic point-of-sale transaction processing,
consumer private label credit card program administration, commercial accounts
receivable processing and call center teleservices.

     NOVUS Financial Corporation ("NOVUS Financial"): a consumer lending
organization that focuses primarily on real estate secured consumer lending.
 
   Credit Services is the largest single issuer of general purpose credit cards
in the United States as measured by number of accounts and card holders (holders
of the Company's general purpose proprietary credit cards are referred to as
"cardmembers"). Consumers use the Company's general purpose credit cards to
purchase goods and services and to obtain cash advances.


 
    The table below sets forth the number of cardmembers, the number of
accounts, the number of active accounts, and the transaction dollar amounts for
the Company's general purpose credit cards, and the dollar amount of general
purpose credit card loans managed by the Company for or at the end of the
periods indicated:

 
- ------
(1) Active accounts are those with a debit or credit balance during their last
    monthly billing cycle for the period indicated.
(2) Includes purchases, cash advances, and balance transfers.

    The table below sets forth total revenues of the Credit Services business
units for the periods indicated.

 
- ----------
(1) Includes revenues from private label credit card programs serviced by SPS
    for an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.

NOVUS SERVICES

  Overview

    NOVUS Services offers an array of general purpose credit cards designed to
appeal to different market segments of consumers for use on the NOVUS Network.
The NOVUS Network is the third largest domestic credit card network and consists
of merchant and cash locations that accept card brands that carry the NOVUS
logo. The Company's strategy is to expand its business by increasing the use of
existing cards and by offering new cards through the NOVUS Network.

    NOVUS Services issues several proprietary cards, each of which bears the
NOVUS logo indicating acceptance by the NOVUS Network. These cards include the
Discover Card, the Private Issue Card, the BRAVO Card and the National Alliance
For Species Survival SM Card, an affinity program card launched in September
1996 in conjunction with the American Zoo and Aquarium Association. In January
1997, NOVUS Services announced it had agreed to issue an affinity program card
in conjunction with the Smithsonian Institution. NOVUS Services plans to
continue to offer additional affinity program and co-branded cards in the
future.

    NOVUS Services promotes its proprietary cards through the use of different
and distinctive features that are designed to appeal to different consumer
bases. The Discover Card is designed to appeal to the value-conscious consumer
with the Cashback Bonus(R) award, no annual fee structure and interest rates
indexed to the prime rate. The Private Issue Card offers consumers a choice of
three sets of terms, based on their specific interests, and four card designs,
three designed by celebrity artists. The BRAVO Card is a general purpose credit
card designed to appeal to consumers who tend to carry balances on their card.

    NOVUS Services offers cardmembers various financial services, including a
revolving line of credit, availability of cash advances, credit insurance, and
card registration to protect against losses in connection with 


 
card theft or loss. Discover and Private Issue cardmembers are also offered
money market deposit accounts and time deposits.

    NOVUS Services accrues revenues through finance charges on cardmembers'
revolving balances, the fees paid by merchants to the Company for transactions
effected through the NOVUS Network, transaction fees paid by cardmembers for
cash advances or late payments, overlimit fees, fees from providing product
enhancements to cardmembers (e.g., credit life insurance and card registration),
merchant fees for processing transactions for other credit and charge cards, and
proceeds from the sale of point-of-sale terminals and related equipment to
merchants.

    NOVUS Services, as the issuer of cards for use on the NOVUS Network, is
distinguished from MasterCard and Visa card issuers in that it directly controls
the brand image, features, service level and pricing of its cards to both
cardmembers and merchants. MasterCard and Visa issuers compete directly with
each other using the same brands and sharing common processes. The ability to
control its product provides NOVUS Services with competitive advantages that are
not available to any single MasterCard or Visa issuer, including efficiencies in
operations, product positioning and marketing execution.

    Cardmembers use cards issued by the Company bearing the NOVUS logo to
purchase goods and services at participating merchant locations and to obtain
cash advances at certain merchant and bank locations and at automated teller
machines or by means of checks drawn against their lines of credit. Cardmembers
receive account statements monthly and may elect to pay all or part of the
outstanding balance each month. The unpaid portion of the outstanding balance is
carried over to the next month, and finance charges are assessed on the
revolving balance. A late fee is charged if less than a stated minimum portion
of the outstanding balance is paid each month. Cardmembers are assessed other
fees if their credit card use violates the terms of the cardmember agreement.

    Cardmember rewards, primarily the Cashback Bonus award, pursuant to which
the Company annually pays Discover cardmembers and Private Issue cardmembers
electing this feature a percentage of their purchase amounts ranging up to one
percent (up to two percent for the Private Issue Card), are based upon a
cardmember's level of annual purchases. The Cashback Bonus award is remitted to
cardmembers in the form of a check or as a credit to their accounts in the
anniversary month of the account opening.

    Cardmembers enter into agreements governing the terms and conditions of
their accounts. Cardmember agreements for each type of card are generally
uniform from state to state. The Company's proprietary general purpose credit
cards (other than Discover Corporate Card) are issued by Greenwood Trust Company
("Greenwood Trust"). Because of certain banking law restrictions, such cards
(other than Discover Corporate Card) may be used only for personal and household
(as opposed to commercial) transactions. The Discover Corporate Card, which is
issued by a different subsidiary of the Company, is primarily for the use of
employees of the Company and formerly affiliated companies.

      In 1996, the Company made an investment in Mondex USA Services Limited
Liability Company (in formation), announced to commercially develop and
implement the Mondex advanced electronic payment and "smart card" system in the
United States. The Company anticipates that the Mondex electronic payment system
will be able to be deployed over the Internet. With Mondex, the Company believes
that consumers will be able to store "electronic cash" onto a "smart card"
embedded with a microprocessor chip, which will then be usable to make small
dollar purchases at stores or over the Internet. The Company is one of seven
major U. S. organizations holding an ownership stake in Mondex USA. The Mondex
system is being piloted internationally and in the United States.

  Merchants

    The NOVUS Network has expanded rapidly since its nationwide introduction in
1986. During 1996, NOVUS Services enrolled approximately 425,000 merchant
outlets to the NOVUS Network, which consisted of over 2.0 million merchant
locations as of December 31, 1996. As of December 31, 1996, the NOVUS Network
also included over 119,000 cash access locations where cardmembers could obtain
cash advances.


 
    Acting as both the issuing and acquiring entity, NOVUS Services retains the
entire merchant fee paid to the NOVUS Network in a given transaction. Because of
its independence from the bankcard associations, NOVUS Services has greater
flexibility than MasterCard or Visa participants in dealing with merchants. The
Company believes that this gives the Company greater opportunities to provide
customized programs to merchants in such areas as processing arrangements and to
attract certain merchants by tailoring program terms to meet their specific
needs.

    NOVUS Services employs its own national sales and support force to maintain
and increase its merchant base. In contrast, MasterCard's and Visa's marketing
efforts to merchants are generally indirect and rely largely on the unaffiliated
sales forces of participating acquiring banks and their agents. In addition, the
Company conducts telemarketing operations for the purpose of acquiring merchant
business and participates in sales and trade association meetings.

  Marketing

    The Company believes NOVUS Services has a distinct advantage over its
bankcard association credit card competitors because of its ability to direct
and deliver a consistent, nationwide message for each brand. Because the Company
manages all aspects of both the cardmember and merchant relationship, it can
determine and promote its advertising campaign and control the campaign's
content, timing and promotional features. The Company believes this ability
gives it an advantage over competitors, particularly those that issue bankcard
association credit cards, which control only one part of the overall
relationship.

    This controlled marketing effort has several significant consequences:

     --NOVUS Services can project a single, clear nationwide image to the
       consumer for each proprietary card brand;
     --NOVUS Services can continuously review card features to design and
       introduce new cards to different market segments;
     --NOVUS Services faces no marketing competition from competing issuers
       using its brand names, unlike MasterCard and Visa issuers;
     --NOVUS Services can conduct joint marketing promotions with NOVUS Network
       merchants aimed at targeted cardmembers; and
     --NOVUS Services can coordinate its media advertising, such as television,
       in support of direct mail solicitations.

  Credit

    Cardmembers undergo credit reviews to establish that they meet standards of
ability and willingness to pay. "Take-one" applications are evaluated using
credit scoring systems (statistical evaluation models that assign point values
to information contained in applications). The Company's credit scoring systems
are based on credit scoring systems developed by scoring-model vendors and are
customized using the Company's criteria and historical data. Applications not
approved under the credit scoring systems may be reviewed and approved by the
Company's credit analysts.

    Applicants receiving pre-approved solicitations must satisfy criteria
specified by NOVUS Services. All recipients of pre-approved solicitations have
been pre-screened through credit bureaus before mailing. Pre-screening is a
process by which an independent credit reporting agency identifies persons
satisfying creditworthiness criteria, in the form of point scoring models or
other screening factors, supplied by the Company that are intended to provide a
general indication, based on available information, of the willingness and
ability of such persons to pay their obligations.


 
    Each cardmember's credit line is reviewed at least annually, and may be
reviewed more frequently if requested by the cardmember or if the Company deems
more frequent review appropriate. Such reviews include scoring the cardmember's
payment behavior on the applicable card as well as reviewing the cardmember's
credit bureau record. Actions resulting from account review may include lowering
a cardmember's credit line or closing the account.

    During 1996, the Company, including NOVUS Services, Prime Option and SPS,
experienced an increase in its net charge-off rate which was consistent with the
industry-wide trend of increasing credit loss rates that the Company believes is
related, in part, to increased consumer debt levels and bankruptcy rates. In
response to this environment and as part of its ongoing review of cardmember
credit quality, the Company implemented initiatives in 1996, including raising
credit quality standards for new accounts, selectively reducing credit limits
and increasing collection efforts. For additional information regarding credit
losses and the Company's response, see Management's Discussion and Analysis
incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 7 of this Report.

    NOVUS Services maintains a separate operations center that handles all
charged-off accounts. The Company believes that this centralization improves the
handling of charged-off accounts, accounts of deceased cardmembers and
management of the relationship with outside attorneys and collection agencies.

  Operations

    The Company performs the functions required to service and operate its
proprietary cards' accounts either by itself or through processing agreements
that the Company has with third parties. These functions include new account
solicitation, application processing, new account fulfillment, transaction
authorization and processing, cardmember billing, payment processing, cardmember
service and collection of delinquent accounts. NOVUS Services maintains several
operations centers throughout the country. Additionally, NOVUS Services
operations are supported by systems at computer centers operated by an
unaffiliated communication services provider. The Company has contracted with
Sears' operations centers for much of the new account fulfillment and customer
billing functions and for certain remittance processing services. The Company's
operations center in Dover, Delaware is also responsible for remittance
processing services.

PRIME OPTION SERVICES

    In 1994, the Company launched, together with NationsBank of Delaware, N.A.
("NationsBank"), a co-branded MasterCard program under the brand name "Prime
Option MasterCard." Issued by NationsBank under an agreement with MountainWest
Financial Corporation, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
("MountainWest"), which participates in the marketing, funding and servicing of
the accounts, Prime Option MasterCard offers special value and flexibility to
consumers through targeted offers of features and pricing based on behavioral
and demographic characteristics. These offers provide most customers with no
annual fee, an annual percentage rate between prime plus 3.9% and prime plus
12.9% and other targeted features.

    Prime Option offers cardmembers their choice of billing date and various
products and services, including a revolving credit line, availability of cash
balances, reduced rate balance transfers, credit insurance, card registration to
protect against losses in connection with card theft or loss, and both Company
and third party vendor home, automobile and dining products. Prime Option ranks
among the 25 largest MasterCard programs in the United States based on number of
cards.


 
SPS TRANSACTION SERVICES, INC.

  General

    SPS is a 74% owned, publicly held subsidiary of the Company; it sold 25.7%
of its common stock in an initial public offering in 1992. SPS provides
technology-based outsourcing services. SPS' primary services include electronic
processing of point-of-sale transactions (primarily credit card transactions),
consumer private label credit card program administration, commercial accounts
receivable processing and call center teleservices.

  Network Transaction Services

    In its point-of-sale transaction processing business, SPS captures credit
and charge card transaction information electronically, transmits the
information utilizing the facilities of unaffiliated communication services
providers to the card issuer or other appropriate on-line processor for
authorization or verification, communicates the response to the merchants
electronically, stores the information for reporting purposes and submits
processed data to the appropriate settlement entity. The authorization process
is usually completed within seven seconds after the transaction data leaves the
merchant's premises. SPS typically markets these services directly to large
regional and national merchants and competes with other large networks and
merchant acquirers for this business.

  Consumer Credit Card Services

    SPS offers customized consumer private label credit card programs to its
clients. In some cases, SPS' wholly owned subsidiary, Hurley State Bank ("Hurley
Bank"), issues the credit card on behalf of the client and owns the receivables
generated through the use of the card. In programs that are managed but not
owned, SPS administers the programs but does not act as the card issuer or own
the receivables. In such cases, SPS generates revenues on a
fee-per-specified-services basis, on a per-account-administered basis or on some
combination thereof. Whether the portfolio is owned or managed, SPS offers its
clients a full range of credit card services. SPS maintains its own risk
management department, which oversees the development and validation of new
account approval models that are customized for individual merchant clients.

  Commercial Accounts Processing Services

    SPS offers billing and accounts receivable management systems for clients
with business customers. According to client preference, SPS provides monthly
revolving account statements or invoice-based billing. SPS generates revenues
from these services on a fee-per-specified-service basis, on a
per-account-administered basis or some combination thereof. For certain
commercial accounts programs administered by SPS, MountainWest is the owner of
loans associated with those programs.

  Teleservices

    SPS also markets call-center based teleservicing programs that focus on
business-to-consumer applications. These services are predominantly outsourcing
programs in which SPS provides its clients with operational and customer service
functions that SPS can more effectively provide with its existing systems
capabilities and inbound and outbound telecommunication resources. SPS services
a wide range of client teleservices programs including customer billing
inquiries, dispatch services, technical help-desk inquiries and catalog order
processing.

NOVUS FINANCIAL

    NOVUS Financial is a consumer finance organization engaged in the business
of originating and servicing consumer loans, with a broad range of products
designed to meet the needs of its customer base. Most of its loans are secured
by mortgages on one-to-four family residential properties, and by automobiles,
boats and recreational vehicles.


 
    For distribution of its products, NOVUS Financial utilizes DWR account
executives, Allstate Insurance Company agents, and direct mail solicitations.
Mortgage loans originated through DWR account executive referrals increased to
$180.8 million in 1996 from $151.1 million in 1995, representing 38% of total
new loan origination in 1996.

COMPETITION

    The Company's Credit Services business units compete in highly competitive
businesses. In particular, the Company's credit cards compete in a highly
competitive industry. The market includes other bank-issued credit cards (the
vast majority of which bear the MasterCard or Visa service mark) and charge
cards issued by travel and entertainment companies. The credit card industry has
experienced increased competitive use of advertising, targeted marketing and
pricing competition in interest rates, annual fees and rebates as new credit
card issuers seek to enter the market and established credit card issuers seek
to expand. More recently, issuers have increased their efforts to attract
balances from competing sources of credit via low-priced balance transfer
programs. In addition, banks have issued and aggressively marketed co-branded
credit cards, which offer certain benefits relating to the business of the
bank's co-branding partner. The Company's strategy is to develop proprietary
credit cards targeted to different market segments with features that are
designed to satisfy the needs of different consumers and to promote Prime Option
to compete in the Visa and MasterCard segments of the market. The Company
believes its proprietary merchant base enables it to promote its proprietary
card brand names on a national basis, thereby building customer acceptance and
use.

REGULATION

    The Company conducts portions of its Credit Services businesses through
banking institutions. Greenwood Trust is a state bank chartered under the laws
of the State of Delaware. Hurley Bank is a state bank chartered under the laws
of the State of South Dakota. Bank of New Castle is a state bank chartered under
the laws of the State of Delaware. MountainWest is an industrial loan company
chartered under the laws of the State of Utah. Greenwood Trust, Hurley Bank,
Bank of New Castle and MountainWest (each a "Bank" and, collectively, the
"Banks") each have their deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ("FDIC") and pay FDIC assessments. Each Bank is subject to
comprehensive regulations and periodic examinations by the state banking
commissioner of the state in which it is chartered and by the FDIC.

    Generally, a company which controls a "bank," as defined in the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956 (the "BHCA"), is required to register as a bank holding
company under that act and becomes subject to regulation and examination as a
bank holding company by the Federal Reserve Board. Greenwood Trust is a "bank"
as defined in the BHCA. However, because Greenwood Trust did not come within the
BHCA's definition of the term "bank" prior to the amendment of the BHCA by the
Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA"), under certain grandfathering
provisions of CEBA the Company is not treated as a bank holding company as long
as the Company and Greenwood Trust comply with certain restrictions set forth in
CEBA. Hurley Bank, Bank of New Castle and MountainWest are not "banks" under the
BHCA as long as each complies with certain other restrictions set forth in CEBA.
Under the BHCA, a bank holding company is generally prohibited from engaging in
any activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or
providing services for its subsidiaries. Should Greenwood Trust fail to continue
to qualify for grandfather rights under CEBA or should any of the other Banks
fail to continue to be operated so as to maintain its exempt status as a
non-bank under the BHCA, the Company, in order to continue in those of its
present businesses that would not be permissible for a bank holding company
under the BHCA, could be required to divest control of those institutions or, in
the case of Greenwood Trust, to change its activities significantly.

    The relationships among cardholders, credit card issuers and sellers of
merchandise in transactions financed by the extension of credit under credit
accounts are extensively regulated by federal and state consumer protection laws
and regulations. Under federal law, each of the Banks may charge interest at the
rate allowed by the law of the state in which it is located. The states where
the Banks are domiciled do not limit the amount of interest that may 


 
be charged on loans of the types offered by the Banks. As a result, each of the
Banks is permitted to export interest rates pursuant to federal law. The
application of federal and state bankruptcy and debtor relief laws affect the
Company to the extent such laws result in any loans being charged off as
uncollectible.

    Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
("FDICIA"), the federal bank regulatory agencies are required to take "prompt
corrective action" in respect of banks that do not meet minimum capital
requirements, and certain restrictions are imposed upon banks that meet certain
capital requirements but are not "well capitalized" for purposes of FDICIA. A
bank that is not well capitalized, as defined for purposes of FDICIA, is, among
other consequences, generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and
offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing
rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits
are solicited). Greenwood Trust, MountainWest and Hurley Bank currently use
brokered deposits as a funding source. If Greenwood Trust, MountainWest or
Hurley Bank were unable to use brokered deposits as a funding source, the
funding costs of the institution, particularly those of Greenwood Trust, would
likely increase.

    Certain acquisitions of the Company's common stock may be subject to
regulatory approval and notice. In addition, Greenwood Trust would no longer
qualify for grandfather rights under CEBA if direct or indirect control of
Greenwood Trust were transferred to a third party. In that event, the third
party would either have to operate as a bank holding company under the BHCA or
significantly modify the activities of Greenwood Trust.

    In 1996, CEBA was amended so that Greenwood Trust is no longer subject to
the limitation, previously imposed by CEBA, that Greenwood Trust's average
assets grow no more than 7% per year. The Company believes that elimination of
the restriction should enhance the Company's future flexibility.

SECURITIES

OVERVIEW
 
    The Company's Securities business traces its origins to Dean Witter & Co.,
founded in 1924. In 1978, Dean Witter & Co. Incorporated merged with Reynolds
Securities Inc.

    Securities business activities, which accounted for 48% and 53% of the
Company's net income in 1995 and 1996, respectively, are conducted by DWR,
InterCapital and other direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company. DWR has
the third largest account executive sales organization in the domestic
securities industry, with over 9,000 account executives located in over 370
branch offices serving the investment needs of over 3.2 million individual and
institutional clients. DWR is among the largest members of the NYSE and is a
member of all other major securities, futures and options exchanges. The
Company's asset management subsidiary, InterCapital, is one of the largest asset
management operations in the United States with total assets of $90.0 billion
under management and administration as of December 31, 1996.

    The Company's goal is to be recognized as the market leader among securities
firms focused on the individual investor. To achieve this goal, the Company has
implemented a strategy that focuses on serving the investment needs of
individual clients through its professional account executive sales
organization. In implementing this strategy, the Company emphasizes proprietary
products, through which it believes it can better monitor and manage the quality
and performance of the investment and savings products owned by its clients.
This strategy has resulted in significant growth in the amount of assets under
management and administration, an important source of continuing revenues.

ORGANIZATION

    The Company's securities business, for management purposes, is organized
into two units: Dean Witter Financial and Dean Witter Capital. Dean Witter
Financial consists of sales, trading, research and various support activities.
By combining the distribution and trading functions in Dean Witter Financial,
DWR manages its trading 


 
and inventory activities primarily to satisfy client needs. Dean Witter Capital
consists of product origination, asset management, investment banking and
fiduciary services and is responsible for establishing standards of product
quality.

BROKERAGE ACTIVITIES

    The Company's account executive sales organization offers its clients a
broad range of securities and savings products that are supported by DWR's
underwriting, research, execution and operational capabilities.

    The table below sets forth for the periods indicated the contribution of the
various products as a percentage of the sum of (i) total agency commissions and
(ii) the portion of principal and certain investment banking transactions
allocated to the account executive sales organization and (iii) amounts advanced
to the account executive sales organization in connection with sales of shares
of mutual funds paying 12b-1 fees, based upon the commission that would have
been earned on the sale of similar shares having a front-end load, and all other
products.

 

EQUITY SECURITIES

    The Company provides execution, trading and research services to its
individual and institutional clients on listed equity securities,
over-the-counter equity securities, options and American Depository Receipts
("ADRs"). The Company acts as a market maker in many equity securities traded on
NASDAQ and in a number of ADRs. The Company acts as a specialist in many
securities listed on regional securities exchanges. The Company's equity
research department provides market and quantitative research, economic analysis
and commentary, makes recommendations with regard to broad industry categories
and equity securities of individual companies and furnishes information to
individual and institutional investors and corporate clients.

FIXED INCOME SECURITIES

    The Company provides trading and execution services to individual and
institutional clients for a broad range of fixed income securities, including
U.S. government obligations, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate
bonds, preferred stocks, municipal securities and certificates of deposit. The
Company is a primary dealer in U.S. government securities.

    The Company's fixed income trading activity focuses primarily on
establishing and maintaining inventory based upon actual and anticipated orders
from its clients, rather than risk-oriented proprietary trading.

FUTURES

    The Company provides execution and clearing services for its individual and
institutional clients trading futures contracts on U.S. exchanges and, through
DWR's affiliates or clearing brokers, on other major exchanges 


 
throughout the world. DWR also engages in foreign exchange currency
transactions, including spot transactions, options and forward contracts,
through the unregulated over-the-counter interbank market.

INVESTMENT CONSULTING SERVICES

    The Company provides investment consulting services ("ICS") that assist
clients in analyzing their investment objectives and in selecting investment
advisory services offered by unaffiliated investment advisers. ICS also provides
clients with quarterly performance reports. Through ICS, DWR clients can obtain
professional money management services that are not typically available to
individual investors. Such combined services are commonly referred to as "wrap
accounts." Total ICS assets as of December 31, 1996 amounted to $10.4 billion,
an increase of $1.5 billion over year-end 1995.

INSURANCE SERVICES

    The Company, through its wholly owned, indirect insurance agency
subsidiaries, acts as a national general agency for leading insurance carriers
to meet the insurance and annuity needs of individual investors. The Company
receives commissions with respect to the sale of such products. The Company
maintains a strategic alliance with Allstate Life Insurance Company ("Allstate
Life") pursuant to which the Company and Northbrook Life Insurance Company, a
wholly owned subsidiary of Allstate Life, manufacture, market and distribute
proprietary insurance products. The insurance products are sold exclusively by
DWR's account executives. The Company has a separate agreement with ITT Hartford
Life Insurance Companies to manufacture, market and distribute proprietary
products through DWR account executives.

MANAGED FUTURES

    The Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Demeter Management Corporation
("Demeter"), acts as general partner of 23 commodity pools (including a family
of open-ended partnerships) organized as limited partnerships whose limited
partners are individual and institutional investors. These commodity pools trade
futures and forward contracts on organized futures exchanges and in the
interbank foreign exchange market. Demeter retains and monitors commodity
trading advisers registered under the Commodity Exchange Act to manage the
assets of these partnerships. As of December 31, 1996, commodity pools operated
by Demeter had approximately $1.1 billion under management.

    In addition, another wholly owned subsidiary, Dean Witter Futures & Currency
Management Inc. ("DWFCM"), is registered as a commodity trading adviser and
manages discretionary commodity futures trading accounts of individual and
institutional investors and commodity pools, including six of the pools of which
Demeter is general partner. As of December 31, 1996, DWFCM managed total assets
of approximately $382 million.

FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS GROUP

    The Company's Financial Institutions Group offers comprehensive securities
products and services to banks across the country. The services include
investment products, technological support, branch network workstations, and
operations and processing systems. Securities currently provides such services
to NationsSecurities, an affiliate of NationsBank Corp., and Banc One Securities
Corporation, an affiliate of Banc One Corporation.




INVESTMENT BANKING
 
    The Company provides financial advice to, and raises capital for, a broad
range of corporate clients, most of which are in industry areas that have been
selected by the Company for joint banking and research coverage. Revenues are
derived from underwriting corporate securities, advisory services in connection
with mergers and acquisitions, private placements of securities, corporate
restructurings and real estate activities.

    The Company manages and participates in public underwritings of common
stock, preferred stock, convertible securities, asset-backed securities and
other fixed income securities.

    The Company provides advisory services to corporate clients on a wide range
of financial matters, including mergers and acquisitions, divestitures,
leveraged buy-outs, financial restructurings and recapitalizations and
valuations. The Company's mergers and acquisitions services involve the
identification of opportunities, financial analysis, strategic advice, delivery
of fairness opinions and continuing assistance, including obtaining financing,
in the final execution of a transaction. The Company acts as placement agent for
issuers that offer debt and equity securities to institutional investors in the
private markets. The Company generally does not commit capital to merchant
banking transactions.

    Certain investment banking professionals are also involved in the research,
development and origination of investment products specifically oriented to the
individual investor. These efforts include new product development on behalf of
investment companies managed by InterCapital as well as origination and
distribution of non-traded limited partnerships, publicly-traded limited
partnerships and other retail-oriented products.

REAL ESTATE

    Dean Witter Realty Inc. ("Realty"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company, has been engaged principally in real estate asset management. During
the 1980's, the Company raised capital for both public and private limited
partnerships. Through the sale of interests in limited partnerships organized to
invest in real estate, Realty manages $1.5 billion of real estate (at cost)
consisting of office, retail, industrial, research and development, and
residential properties. Subsidiaries or affiliates of Realty act as general
partners of the partnerships that own the properties and provide investor
services for most of the partnerships. The Company's Liberty Street Management
Division serves as property manager for many of the properties owned by such
partnerships. In 1996, a Realty subsidiary co-sponsored, along with affiliates
of Hines Interests Limited Partnership and The TCW Group, Inc., Emerging Markets
Real Estate Partners I, L.P., a limited partnership offering institutional
investors the opportunity to capitalize on direct real estate investments in
emerging market countries around the world.

NET INTEREST REVENUES

    The Company derives net interest revenues primarily from the financing of
client margin loans less the cost of financing such loans.

    The Company's daily trading inventory positions in United States government
and agency securities are financed largely through the use of repurchase
agreements. The Company also acts as an intermediary between borrowers and
lenders of short-term funds utilizing repurchase and reverse repurchase
agreements. The Company may earn interest revenues as a result of such
activities.

    Customer securities transactions are effected on either a cash or margin
basis. In margin transactions, the Company extends credit to the customer
collateralized by securities and cash in the customer's account for a portion of
the purchase price, and receives revenues from interest charged on such
extensions of credit.

    During 1996, clients' interest-bearing debit balances averaged approximately
$2.5 billion as compared to an average of approximately $2.3 billion in 1995.




ASSET MANAGEMENT
 
    The Company, through InterCapital, is one of the largest investment advisers
in the country in terms of assets under management. The Company is committed to
asset gathering and growing assets under management. The key element of this
strategy is the Company's marketing, primarily through DWR's account executive
sales organization, of a family of proprietary mutual funds focused on product
diversification and quality. The Company believes that by emphasizing
proprietary mutual funds, it can better monitor and manage the quality and
performance of the investment and savings products owned by its clients.

    Investment management and administration fees generated by the Company's
asset management business accounted for approximately 12.4% and 13.3% of the
Company's securities business non-interest revenues in 1995 and 1996,
respectively. Such fees provide a relatively stable contribution to the
Company's revenues since they are based on the market value of assets under
management and administration and not on the volume of transactions. As of
December 31, 1996, the Company's total assets under management and
administration were $90.0 billion.

    The following table shows the total assets under management and
administration for the past five years (in billions):

 
                                                                          
(1) Assets under management and administration represent Dean Witter Funds
    (defined below) and funds invested pursuant to InterCapital's Custom
    Portfolio and Portfolio Advantage programs, with respect to which
    InterCapital exercises investment discretion and, through DWSC (defined
    below), renders administrative services. Assets under administration
    represent Dean Witter Funds for which DWSC renders administrative services
    but InterCapital is not the investment adviser, consisting of 14 funds
    advised by Trust Company of the West and 3 other funds for which
    InterCapital or DWSC provides sub-investment adviser, administrator or
    sub-administrator services.

    The term "Dean Witter Funds" means those registered investment companies for
which (i) InterCapital exercises investment discretion, (ii) Dean Witter
Services Company Inc. ("DWSC") renders administrative services or (iii)
InterCapital exercises investment discretion and DWSC renders administrative
services. Fund management fees arise from investment management and
administration services that InterCapital and DWSC provide to the Dean Witter
Funds pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives
management fees based upon each fund's average daily or weekly net assets. The
following table shows the components of fund management fees for the period
ending on the dates indicated (in millions):

 

    Shares of Dean Witter Funds that are open-end investment companies are
distributed by Dean Witter Distributors Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company and a registered broker-dealer ("Distributors"), which has entered into
selected dealer agreements with DWR, NationsSecurities and Banc One Securities
Corporation. Distribution expenses of DWR and its affiliates include the payment
of commissions and incentive compensation to account executives for sales of the
Dean Witter Funds' shares, the costs of preparing, printing and distributing
advertising or promotional materials and the costs of printing and distributing
prospectuses and supplements thereto used in


 
connection with the offering and sale of the Dean Witter Funds' shares. DWR and
its affiliates are compensated for their distribution related expenses through
front-end sales charges, contingent deferred sales charges and fees authorized
pursuant to the provisions of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of
1940.

FIDUCIARY SERVICES

       Dean Witter Trust Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
("DWTC"), offers trust and other fiduciary services to both individual and
corporate clients, including trustee services for personal trusts in many states
and trust services for tax-qualified retirement plans. DWTC also provides
transfer agent and dividend disbursing services for the Company, the Dean Witter
Funds and certain other entities. In August 1996, the Company established Dean
Witter Trust FSB, a federal savings bank, through which the Company plans to
market enhanced trust and other fiduciary services for both personal trusts and
retirement plan trusts nationwide through the Company's account executives.

OPERATIONS AND INFORMATION PROCESSING

    The Company executes and clears all of its transactions (delivery of
securities sold, receipt of securities purchased and transfer of related funds)
through its own facilities and through memberships in various clearing
corporations. In order to minimize the risks of systems failures, the Company
maintains redundant processing systems.

COMPETITION

    The Company encounters intense competition in all aspects of the securities
business and competes directly with other securities firms, a significant number
of which have substantially greater capital and other resources and some of
which offer a wider range of financial services. In addition to competition from
firms currently in the securities business, the Company faces increasing
competition from other sources such as commercial banks, insurance companies and
mutual fund groups. The Company believes that the principal factors affecting
competition in the securities industry are the quality and ability of
professional personnel, the relative prices of services and products offered and
investment performance. The Company and its competitors also employ advertising
and direct solicitation of potential customers as methods of increasing
business, and many of the Company's competitors engage in more extensive
advertising programs than does the Company. The Company and its competitors also
furnish investment research publications in an effort to attract potential and
retain existing clients. The Company also competes with several major securities
firms to attract and retain account executives and other investment
professionals.

    The investment management industry is highly competitive, with approximately
6,300 open-end management investment companies holding over $3.5 trillion in
assets as of December 31, 1996. Competition in the sale of mutual funds is
affected by a number of factors including investment objectives and performance,
advertising and sales promotion efforts, the level of fees, distribution
channels and the types and quality of services offered. In addition to fund
products offered by other broker-dealers, the Dean Witter Funds are in
competition with funds sold directly by investment management firms and
insurance companies, as well as with other investment alternatives sold by such
companies and by banks and other financial institutions.

REGULATION

    The Company's activities in the securities and commodities industries
generally are subject to extensive regulation in the United States under both
federal and state laws. Various regulatory bodies are charged with safeguarding
the integrity of the financial markets and with protecting the interests of
investors. The Company, through DWR and other subsidiaries, is registered as a
broker-dealer with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), in all 50
states, the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and as an
investment adviser with the SEC and in all states in which registration as an
investment advisor is required.


 
    Broker-dealers are subject to regulations which cover all aspects of the
securities business, including sales and trading practices, use and safekeeping
of customers' funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and the
supervision of officers and employees. The SEC, other governmental authorities,
including state securities commissions, and self-regulatory organizations may
institute administrative proceedings, which may result in censure, fine, the
issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a
broker-dealer or member, its officers or employees or in other similar
consequences. Occasionally, the Company's subsidiaries have been subject to
routine investigations and proceedings and fines have been imposed for minor
infractions of various regulations relating to their activities as a
broker-dealer, none of which, to date, has had a material adverse effect on the
Company or its business. Broker-dealers are also subject to regulation by state
securities administrators in those states in which they conduct business.

    DWR is registered with the Commodities Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC")
as a futures commission merchant and, as such, its activities in the futures and
futures options markets are subject to regulation by the CFTC. DWR is also a
member of, and is subject to the rules of, various domestic commodity exchanges.
DWR's futures and options-on-futures business is also regulated by the National
Futures Association ("NFA"), a not-for-profit membership corporation which has
been designated a registered futures association by the CFTC and of which DWR is
a member. In addition, certain of the Company's subsidiaries are registered with
the CFTC as commodity pool operators and are also members of the NFA.

    The Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries, including DWR, are members of the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC"), which provides, in the
event of the liquidation of a broker-dealer, protection for customers' accounts
held by the firm of up to $500,000 for each customer, subject to a limitation of
$100,000 for claims for cash balances. Margin lending by certain subsidiaries is
regulated by rules of the Federal Reserve Board as to the amount they may lend
in connection with certain purchases of securities by customers, and such
subsidiaries are also required by NYSE rules to impose maintenance requirements
on the amount of securities contained in margin accounts.

        As registered investment advisers, InterCapital and DWR are subject to
regulation in various aspects of their businesses, such as transactions with or
on behalf of clients, disclosure, advertising, cash payments for solicitation
activities and the terms of their advisory contracts, including certain
restrictions as to performance-based fees. In addition, certain additional
requirements are imposed with respect to advisory activities on behalf of
investment companies, including requirements as to the terms of advisory
contracts and as to shareholder and director approval of such contracts, and the
imposition of a fiduciary duty with respect to the receipt of advisory fees and
other compensation by the investment adviser and its affiliates.

        The Company conducts a portion of its Securities business through
banking institutions. DWTC is a trust company chartered under the laws of the
State of New Jersey, and is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance. DWTC is also
a registered transfer agent, subject to regulation in such capacity by the SEC.
Dean Witter Trust FSB is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the federal Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS") and by the FDIC.
Dean Witter Trust FSB has its deposits insured by the FDIC and pays FDIC
assessments to the Savings Association Insurance Fund.

        As a result of its ownership of Dean Witter Trust FSB, the Company is
registered with the OTS as a unitary savings and loan holding company ("USLHC")
and subject to regulation and examination as a USLHC by the OTS. USLHCs are
exempt from the material restrictions imposed upon the activities of savings and
loan holding companies that are not USLHCs. Savings and loan holding companies
other than USLHCs are generally prohibited from engaging in activities other
than conducting business as a savings association, managing or controlling
savings associations, providing services to subsidiaries or engaging in
activities permissible for bank holding companies (as to the regulation of bank
holding companies, see CREDIT SERVICES - Regulation, on page 9). Should the
Company fail to continue to qualify as a USLHC, the Company, in order to
continue in those of its present businesses that would not be permissible for a
savings and loan holding company, could be required 


 
to divest control of Dean Witter Trust FSB. Certain acquisitions of the
Company's common stock may be subject to regulatory approval and notice.

    The Company's securities business is also subject to regulation by various
foreign governments and regulatory bodies. The Company engages in trading
activities in the commodity futures and equity markets through its United
Kingdom subsidiary, Dean Witter International Ltd., which is regulated by The
Securities and Futures Authority and is a member of the London International
Financial Futures and Options Exchange and the International Petroleum Exchange.

RECENT DEVELOPMENT - DWD ELECTRONIC FINANCIAL SERVICES

        In 1996, the Company announced the formation of a new business, DWD
Electronic Financial Services ("EFS"), to focus on the growing number of
customers interested in personal computer based financial services, including
banking and securities transactions on the Internet. EFS' principal activities
currently include serving securities customers through the Company's
wholly-owned subsidiary, Lombard Brokerage, Inc. ("Lombard"). In January 1997,
the Company acquired Lombard, a San Francisco-based technology company that
offers financial services nationwide primarily via its site on the Internet.
Lombard offers research information and discount trading services, principally
to individual investors, both on-line and over the telephone, and is an example
of the Company's efforts to satisfy the demand for securities services outside
the traditional full-service brokerage channel. EFS plans to invest in the
growth of Lombard and is studying expanding its product offerings to include
banking products, among other areas.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

    The Company's and Securities' executive offices are located at Two World
Trade Center, New York, New York, and occupy 864,000 square feet under a lease
expiring on May 31, 2006. The Company owns a 600,000 square foot building in
Riverwoods, Illinois that houses Credit Services' executive offices, and an
adjacent undeveloped 29 acre parcel.

    The Company's subsidiaries have offices, operations centers and warehouse
facilities located throughout the United States. Certain of the Company's
subsidiaries maintain offices in foreign countries. Except for several
facilities owned by Credit Services, the Company's properties are leased on
terms and for durations which are reflective of commercial standards in the
communities where these offices and other properties are located.

    The Company believes that its properties are adequate and suitable for its
business as presently conducted.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in numerous legal and
arbitration proceedings. With respect to those actions that have not yet been
resolved, the Company and its subsidiaries are vigorously contesting their
alleged liabilities and have asserted denials and defenses they believe to be
meritorious. Although the ultimate outcome of these actions cannot be
ascertained at this time, the Company believes that the resolution of these
actions will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial
condition, but may be material to the Company's operating results for any
particular period, depending upon the level of the Company's income for such
period. The actions to which the Company is a party include, among others, the
following.

Late Payment Fee Litigation

        On June 3, 1996, the United States Supreme Court issued a decision
holding that state laws limiting late charges are preempted with respect to
national banks by federal law, and the Court remanded for reconsideration
lower-court decisions that had held that such state laws were not similarly
preempted with respect to other federally insured banks. In light of these
rulings, all of the outstanding legal and administrative proceedings
challenging, on the basis of state law limitations that were asserted to apply
notwithstanding federal law, 


 
Greenwood Trust's imposition of late fees and other incidental charges on
Discover cardmembers were resolved in 1996 in Greenwood Trust's favor. No such
proceedings are currently pending.

Department of Justice Antitrust Investigation

        Twenty-four market makers, including DWR, resolved an investigation by
the U.S. Department of Justice of possible anti-competitive activities in the
over-the-counter securities market by agreeing, without trial or adjudication,
to the entry of an Order and Stipulation filed in the United States District
Court for the Southern District of New York on July 17, 1996. The Order and
Stipulation requires certain ongoing undertakings including the appointment of
an antitrust compliance officer to monitor trading practices and assure
continued compliance with the antitrust laws. The Order and Stipulation is
awaiting court approval.

Market Makers Antitrust Litigation

        A consolidated class action (the "NASDAQ Action") entitled In re NASDAQ
Market Makers Antitrust Litigation was commenced on December 16, 1994 in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against DWR
and 32 other broker-dealers alleging that NASDAQ market makers conspired to fix
the "spread" in certain NASDAQ securities. On August 3, 1995 the court dismissed
the complaint and an amended consolidated complaint was subsequently filed
alleging the same cause of action. The amended complaint seeks, among other
things, treble damages in an unspecified amount. DWR answered the amended
complaint denying the allegations of wrongdoing. Plaintiff's motion for class
certification was granted on November 27, 1996. On December 10, 1996, four
institutional investors filed a new complaint making the same allegations made
in the consolidated class action amended complaint; this action was
automatically consolidated with the pending action. On December 18, 1996, the
plaintiffs sought clarification of the court's class certification decision.

TCW/DW  North American Government Income Trust Litigation

        Several purported class action lawsuits, which have been consolidated
for pretrial purposes (together, the "TNORA Action"), were instituted in January
1995 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
against the TCW/DW North American Government Income Trust, DWR, some of the
Trust's trustees and officers, its underwriter and distributor, the Trust's
unaffiliated Adviser, the Trust's Manager, and other defendants, by certain
shareholders of the Trust. The consolidated amended complaint asserts claims
under the Securities Act of 1933 and generally alleges that the defendants made
inadequate and misleading disclosures in the prospectuses for the Trust, in
particular as such disclosures related to the nature and risks of the Trust's
investments in mortgage-backed securities and Mexican securities. The plaintiffs
also challenge certain fees paid by the Trust as excessive. Damages are sought
in an unspecified amount. All defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated
amended complaint. Although on May 8, 1996 the motions to dismiss were denied,
upon reconsideration on August 28, 1996 the court dismissed several of the
plaintiffs' claims and clarified its earlier opinion denying the defendants'
motion to dismiss. In addition, on August 28, 1996, the court granted the
plaintiffs' motion for class certification. On December 4, 1996, in light of a
new decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
defendants filed a new motion for reconsideration of the court's decision
denying the defendants' motion to dismiss.

Term Trust Class Actions

      A putative class action, Lonnie Sheppard, et al. v. TCW/DW Term Trust 
2000, et al., was commenced on July 22, 1994 in the United States District Court
for the Southern  District of New York. Plaintiffs purported to represent 
certain purchasers of TCW/DW Term Trusts 2000 and 2003. The defendants included 
the Trusts, the trustees of the Trusts, TCW Funds Management, Inc. and its 
chairman, DWR, Distributors and InterCapital. Plaintiffs alleged violations of 
Sections 11, 12(2) and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and sought unspecified 
compensatory and punitive damages. Defendants' motion to dismiss was granted 
with prejudice on August 16, 1996 and no appeal was taken. Another putative
class action, Thomas D. Keeley, et al. v. DWR et al., (the "Keeley Action") was
commenced in the Superior Court of California for Orange County on October 27,
1994 and later consolidated with three similar class actions. Defendants are the
Company, DWR, Distributors, InterCapital, DWSC, TCW Management Co., Trust
Company of the West, TCW Asset Management Co., Inc., TCW Funds Management, Inc.
and eight individuals, including two DWR employees. Plaintiffs allege breach of
fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, fraud, deceit and violation of the California
Corporation Code in the marketing and selling of the TCW/DW Term Trusts 2000,
2002 and 2003. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.
Defendants filed an answer to the first amended class complaint denying all
wrongdoing on December 6, 1995, and motions for judgment on the pleadings on
March 13, 1997.

Litigation Regarding Proposed Merger

    On February 12, 1997, certain stockholders of the Company filed a putative
class action suit (the "Brody Action") in the Court of Chancery of the State of
Delaware in and for New Castle County against the Company and certain of its
directors. The complaint alleges certain breaches of fiduciary duty to the
Company's stockholders by the Company and the named directors in connection with
entering into the Agreement and Plan of Merger between the Company and Morgan
Stanley dated as of February 4, 1997, and seeks a variety of equitable relief.
The defendants have not yet responded to the complaint, but intend to vigorously
defend the Brody Action.


 
                             EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The following table sets forth certain information concerning executive
officers of the Company as of January 17, 1997.

 

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
quarter ended December 31, 1996.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The information required by this item is contained on pages 46 and 47 of the
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders (the "Annual Report") and is incorporated by
reference herein.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The information required by this item is contained on page 17 of the Annual
Report under the caption "Five-Year Summary of Financial Information" and is
incorporated by reference herein.


 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATION

    The information required by this item is contained on pages 18 through 29 of
the Annual Report under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis" and
is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The information required by this item is contained on page 30 under the
caption "Independent Auditor's Report" and on pages 31 through 45 of the Annual
Report and is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    None.

                                   PART III

     Information required by Part III is incorporated by reference from the
sections of the Company's definitive 1997 proxy statement involving the election
of directors (to be filed within 120 days after December 31, 1996) having the
following headings: "PROPOSAL NO. 2 - ELECTION OF DIRECTORS," "EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION" (excluding the information under the subheadings "Compensation
Committee's Report on Executive Compensation" and "Stock Performance Graph"),
"BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP OF DEAN WITTER DISCOVER COMMON STOCK" AND "CERTAIN
TRANSACTIONS."
 
                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) Documents filed as part of this Report:

1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

    The financial statements required to be filed hereunder are listed on page
    S-1 hereof.

2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

    The financial statement schedules required to be filed hereunder are listed
    on page S-1 hereof.

3.  EXHIBITS

    An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report on page E-1 hereto
and is incorporated herein by reference.

(b) A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 23, 1996, was filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the announcement of
    the Company's third quarter financial results.


 
                                  SIGNATURES

    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED ON THE 31ST DAY OF
MARCH, 1997.

                                                DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.
                                                (Registrant)

                                                By    /S/ PHILIP J. PURCELL
                                                  -----------------------------
                                                          PHILIP J. PURCELL
                                                      Chairman of the Board and
                                                      Chief Executive Officer

    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED ON THE 31ST DAY OF MARCH, 1997.

           SIGNATURES                                       TITLE

/S/   PHILIP J. PURCELL               Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
- ------------------------------        Officer and Director (Principal 
      PHILIP J. PURCELL               Executive Officer) 


/S/   THOMAS C. SCHNEIDER             Executive Vice President and Chief
- ------------------------------        Financial Officer (Principal Financial
      THOMAS C. SCHNEIDER             Officer)                              
                                      

/S/   ROBERT P. SEASS                 Senior Vice President and Controller
- ------------------------------        (Principal Accounting Officer) 
      ROBERT P. SEASS                  

/S/   NANCY KASSEBAUM BAKER           Director
- ------------------------------
      NANCY KASSEBAUM BAKER

/S/   EDWARD A. BRENNAN               Director
- ------------------------------
      EDWARD A. BRENNAN

/S/   ALFRED C. DECRANE, JR.          Director
- ------------------------------
      ALFRED C. DECRANE, JR.

/S/   ROBERT M. GARDINER              Director
- ------------------------------
      ROBERT M. GARDINER

/S/   C. ROBERT KIDDER                Director
- ------------------------------
      C. ROBERT KIDDER

/S/   MILES L. MARSH                  Director
- ------------------------------
      MILES L. MARSH

/S/   MICHAEL A. MILES                Director
- ------------------------------
      MICHAEL A. MILES

/S/   SYBIL C. MOBLEY                 Director
- ------------------------------
      SYBIL C. MOBLEY

/S/   CLARENCE B. ROGERS, JR.         Director
- ------------------------------
      CLARENCE B. ROGERS, JR.


 
                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

     (a) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The following Consolidated Financial Statements
of Dean Witter, Discover & Co., Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and
Independent Auditors' Report are incorporated by reference herein from the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders:

 

    (b) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES. The following Financial Statement
Schedules are filed with this Form 10-K on the pages indicated:

 

All other Financial Statements Schedules have been omitted since the information
is not applicable, is not required or is included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements listed under section
(a) above.

                                      S-1

 
                                         SCHEDULE III

                                 DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.
                                    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                                CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                                        (IN MILLIONS)

 
                                                                           

                 See notes to condensed financial statements.

                                      S-2

 
                                 SCHEDULE III

                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.
                             (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                  CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
                                 (IN MILLIONS)

 
                         See notes to condensed financial statements.

                                      S-3

 
                                         SCHEDULE III

                                 DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.
                                    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                              CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                        (IN MILLIONS)

 
                         See notes to condensed financial statements.

                                      S-4

 
                                         SCHEDULE III

                                 DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.
                                    (PARENT COMPANY ONLY)

                           NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

1.   INTRODUCTION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The condensed financial statements of Dean Witter, Discover & Co. (the
"Parent Company") should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements of Dean Witter, Discover & Co. and subsidiaries (the "Company") and
notes thereto found in pages 31- 45 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders (the "Annual Report") and incorporated by reference.

2.   DIVIDENDS RECEIVED FROM SUBSIDIARIES

    The Company received cash dividends from its consolidated subsidiaries
totaling $415.5 million, $685.9 million and $593.4 million for the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

3.   DIVIDENDS PAID

    For 1996 and 1995, the Company paid quarterly dividends to common
shareholders in the amounts of $0.11 and $0.08 per share, respectively. In
January 1997, the Company increased its quarterly dividend to $0.14 per share,
effective for the first quarter of 1997.

4.   STOCK SPLIT

    The Company declared a two-for-one split of its common stock, which was
effected in the form of a stock dividend, effective January 14, 1997. All prior
period per share and share outstanding data has been restated to reflect this
split.

                                      S-5

 
                                        SCHEDULE VIII

                                 DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

                              VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                         YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
                                        (IN MILLIONS)
 

                                      S-6

 
                                 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Dean Witter, Discover & Co.:

    We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Dean Witter,
Discover & Co. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995,
and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996 and have
issued our report thereon dated February 21, 1997; such consolidated financial
statements and report are included in your 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders
and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included Schedules III
and VIII listed in the Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement
Schedules. These financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our
audits. In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York
February 21, 1997

                                      S-7

 
================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549



                                    EXHIBITS


                                       TO


                                   FORM 10-K



                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-11758



                          DEAN WITTER, DISCOVER & CO.

================================================================================

 
                                     INDEX

Exhibit                                                          Sequential
  No.                          Description                        Page No.
- -------                        -----------                       ----------

2.1*       Agreement and Plan of Merger between Dean Witter, 
           Discover & Co. and Morgan Stanley Group Inc., dated
           as of February 4, 1997. Filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           February 4, 1997 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

3.1*       Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  
           Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's
           Registration Statement No. 33-56104 on Form S-1 and
           incorporated herein by reference.

3.2*       Certificate of Designation of the Registrant relating 
           to the Registrant's Series A Junior Participating
           Preferred Stock. Filed as Exhibit 3(b) to the
           Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-92172 on
           Form S-3 and incorporated herein by reference.

3.3*       Certificate of Amendment to Amended and Restated 
           Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant as
           filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
           Delaware on May 24, 1995. Filed as Exhibit 3(c) to
           the Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-
           92172 on Form S-3 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

3.4*       Amended and Restated By-Laws.  Filed as Exhibit 3 to 
           the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
           the quarter ended September 30, 1995 and
           incorporated herein by reference.

4.1*       Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock.  
           Filed as Exhibit 4 to the Registrant's Registration
           Statement No. 33-56104 on Form S-1 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

4.2*       Rights Agreement, dated as of April 25, 1995, between 
           Registrant and Chemical Bank, as Rights Agent,
           which includes as Exhibit B thereto the Form of
           Rights Certificate. Filed as Exhibit 1 to the
           Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A
           dated April 25, 1995 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.3*       Amendment, dated as of February 4, 1997, to the 
           Rights Agreement, dated as of April 25, 1995, as
           amended, between Dean Witter, Discover & Co. and
           the Chase Manhattan Bank, as successor to Chemical
           Bank (as Rights Agent). Filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           February 4, 1997 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.4*       Indenture, dated as of February 24, 1993, between 
           Dean Witter, Discover & Co. and The First National
           Bank of Chicago, as Trustee. Filed as Exhibit 4 to
           the Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-
           57202 on Form S-3 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.5*       Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s Medium-Term 
           Note Series I (Fixed Rate). Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to
           the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           November 18, 1993 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.6*       Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s Medium-Term 
           Note Series I (Floating Rate). Filed as Exhibit 4.2
           to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
           dated November 18, 1993 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.7*       Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s 6-1/2% Notes 
           due November 1, 2005. Filed as Exhibit 4 to the
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           November 2, 1993 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.8*       Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s 6-3/4% 
           Debentures due October 15, 2013. Filed as Exhibit 4
           to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
           dated October 21, 1993 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

                                       i

 
Exhibit                                                          Sequential
  No.                          Description                        Page No.
- -------                        -----------                       ----------


4.9*       Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s 6-1/4% Notes 
           due March 15, 2000. Filed as Exhibit 4 to the
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March
           9, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.

4.10*      Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s 6% Notes due 
           March 1, 1998. Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           February 25, 1993 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.11*      Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s 6-7/8% Notes 
           due March 1, 2003. Filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           February 25, 1993 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.12*      Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s LIBOR Floating 
           Rate Notes due March 1, 2000. Filed as Exhibit 4 to
           the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           February 22, 1995 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.13*      Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s 6.75% Notes 
           due August 15, 2000. Filed as Exhibit 4 to the
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           August 16, 1995 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.14*      Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s 6.75% 
           Debentures due January 1, 2016. Filed as Exhibit
           4 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K
           dated January 4, 1996 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

4.15*      Form of Dean Witter, Discover & Co.'s 6.30% Notes 
           due January 15, 2006. Filed as Exhibit 4 to the
           Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           January 18, 1996 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

10.1*      Guaranty of Lease dated March 19, 1992, by the 
           Registrant in favor of Harborside Exchange Place
           Limited Partnership and Plaza II and III Urban
           Renewal Associates L.P. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
           the Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-
           56104 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

10.2*      Lease Agreement, dated March 19, 1979, between the 
           Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and Dean
           Witter Reynolds Inc. Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
           Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-56104 on
           Form S-l and incorporated herein by reference.

10.3*      Master Separation Agreement between the Registrant 
           and Sears, Roebuck and Co. Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
           the Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-
           56104 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

10.4       Amended Agreement for Systems Operations Services, 
           dated as of January 1, 1996, by and between the
           Registrant and Advantis, a New York general
           partnership. (Portions of this Exhibit have been
           omitted pursuant to a request for confidential
           treatment of such omitted information under Rule
           24b-2)

10.5*      Form of Pooling and Servicing Agreement used in 
           connection with the securitization of Discover Card
           receivables. Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the
           Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-56104 on
           Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.6*      Pooling and Servicing Agreement between Greenwood 
           Trust Company as Master Servicer, Servicer and
           Seller and Continental Bank, National Association,
           as Trustee, dated as of October 1, 1993. Filed as
           Exhibit 4.1 to the Discover Card Master Trust I
           Registration Statement No. 33-71502 on Form S-1 and
           incorporated herein by reference.

                                       ii

 
Exhibit                                                          Sequential
  No.                          Description                        Page No.
- -------                        -----------                       ----------

10.7*      First Amendment to Pooling and Servicing Agreement, 
           dated as of August 15, 1994, between Greenwood
           Trust Company, as Master Servicer, Servicer and
           Seller and Bank of America Illinois (formerly,
           Continental Bank, National Association) as Trustee.
           Filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Discover Card Master
           Trust I Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 1,
           1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.8*      Second Amendment to Pooling and Servicing Agreement, 
           dated as of February 29, 1996, between Greenwood
           Trust Company as Master Servicer, Servicer and
           Seller and First Bank National Association
           (successor trustee to Bank of America Illinois,
           formerly Continental Bank, National Association) as
           Trustee. Filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Discover Card
           Master Trust I Current Report on Form 8-K dated
           April 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

10.9+      Dean Witter START Plan (Saving Today Affords Retirement
           Tomorrow) (amended and restated as of January 1, 1997).

10.10*+    Dean Witter Financial Services Group Inc. Capital 
           Accumulation Plan (currently known as the Dean
           Witter, Discover & Co. Capital Accumulation Plan),
           Amended and Restated as of December 31, 1991. Filed
           as Exhibit 10.24 to the Registrant's Registration
           Statement No. 33-56104 on Form S-1 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.11*+    First Amendment to the Dean Witter, Discover & Co. 
           Capital Accumulation Plan (adopted November 10,
           1993). Filed as Exhibit 10.31 to the Registrant's
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
           December 31, 1993 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

10.12*+    Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan 
           (formerly known as the Dean Witter Reynolds
           Financial Services Inc. Supplemental Pension Plan
           for Executives), Amended and Restated as of
           December 14, 1993. Filed as Exhibit 10.32 to the
           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1993 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.13*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Omnibus Equity Incentive 
           Plan. Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's
           Registration Statement No. 33-63024 on Form S-8 and
           incorporated herein by reference.

10.14*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Employees Replacement 
           Stock Plan. Filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the
           Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-63024 on
           Form S-8 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.15*+    First Amendment to Dean Witter, Discover & Co. 
           Employees Replacement Stock Plan (adopted June 18,
           1993). Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's
           Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 18, 1993
           and incorporated herein by reference.

10.16*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. 1993 Stock Plan for 
           Non-Employee Directors. Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the
           Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-63024 on
           Form S-8 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.17*+    Amendment to the Dean Witter, Discover & Co. 1993 
           Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Filed as
           Exhibit 10.37 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 and
           incorporated herein by reference.

10.18*+    Sears Consumer Financial Corporation Supplemental 
           Retirement Income Plan (currently known as the
           NOVUS Credit Services Inc. Supplemental Retirement
           Income Plan), effective as of January 1, 1989.
           Filed as Exhibit 10.36 to the Registrant's
           Registration Statement No. 33-56104 on Form S-1 and
           incorporated herein by reference.

                                      iii

 
Exhibit                                                          Sequential
  No.                          Description                        Page No.
- -------                        -----------                       ----------

10.19*+    First Amendment to the NOVUS Credit Services Inc. 
           Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (adopted
           December 8, 1992). Filed as Exhibit 10.41 to the
           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1993 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.20*+    Second Amendment to the NOVUS Credit Services Inc.
           Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (adopted June
           15, 1993). Filed as Exhibit 10.42 to the
           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1993 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.21*+    Third Amendment to the NOVUS Credit Services Inc. 
           Supplemental Retirement Income Plan (adopted
           February 13, 1995). Filed as Exhibit 10.27 to the
           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1994 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.22*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Transferred Executives 
           Pension Supplement, Amended and Restated as of
           January 1, 1995. Filed as Exhibit 10 to the
           Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
           quarter ended September 30, 1995 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.23*     Tax Sharing Agreement between the Registrant and 
           Sears, Roebuck and Co. Filed as Exhibit 10.40 to
           the Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-
           56104 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

10.24*     Lease Agreement, dated July 8, 1985, by and between 
           Fund for Regional Development acting by and through
           The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and
           Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Filed as Exhibit 10.41 to
           the Registrant's Registration Statement No. 33-
           56104 on Form S-l and incorporated herein by
           reference.

10.25*+    Employee Benefits Allocation Agreement between the 
           Registrant and Sears, Roebuck and Co. Filed as
           Exhibit 10.44 to the Registrant's Registration
           Statement No. 33-56104 on Form S-1 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.26*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. 1994 Omnibus Equity Plan. 
           Filed as Exhibit 10.52 to the Registrant's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
           1993 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.27*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Tax Deferred Equity 
           Participation Plan (amended and restated October
           21, 1994). Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Post-
           Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registrant's
           Registration Statement No. 33-82240 on Form S-8 and
           incorporated herein by reference.

10.28*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. 1994 Formula Compensation 
           Plan, as amended. Filed as Exhibit 10.40 to the
           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1994 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.29*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Employee Stock Purchase 
           Plan (amended and restated as of January 1, 1996).
           Filed as Exhibit 10.42 to the Registrant's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
           1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.30*     $3.25 billion Credit Agreement, dated May 5, 1995, 
           among the Registrant, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company
           of New York, as documentation agent, Chemical Bank,
           as administrative agent, and the other banks named
           therein. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's
           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
           March 31, 1995 and incorporated herein by
           reference.

10.31*     $4.0 billion Credit Agreement, dated April 19, 1996,
           between Dean Witter, Discover & Co. and Morgan
           Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Chemical Bank
           and other banks named therein. Filed as Exhibit
           10.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form
           10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1996 and
           incorporated herein by reference.

                                       iv

 
Exhibit                                                          Sequential
  No.                          Description                        Page No.
- -------                        -----------                       ----------

10.32*+    Key Executive Employment Plan, as amended April 
           19, 1996. Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's
           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
           March 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by
           reference.
 
10.33*+    Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Directors' Equity Capital
           Accumulation Plan. Filed as Exhibit 10.45 to the
           Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           year ended December 31, 1995 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.34+     Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Employees Equity 
           Accumulation Plan.

10.35*     Stock Option Agreement, dated as of February 4, 1997, 
           between Dean Witter, Discover & Co., as issuer, and
           Morgan Stanley Group Inc., as grantee. Filed as
           Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on
           Form 8-K dated February 4, 1997 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

10.36*     Stock Option Agreement, dated as of February 4, 1997, 
           between Morgan Stanley Group Inc., as issuer, and
           Dean Witter, Discover & Co., as grantee. Filed as
           Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant's Current Report on
           Form 8-K dated February 4, 1997 and incorporated
           herein by reference.

11         Statement Re: Computation of Earnings Per Common Share.

12         Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed 
           Charges.

13         1996 Annual Report to Shareholders. Except for those 
           portions expressly incorporated by reference
           herein, the 1996 Annual Report is furnished for the
           information of the Commission and is not deemed
           "filed" as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

21         Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23         Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.



- ----------------------
*  Incorporated by reference.

+  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
   as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c).

                                       v

