
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 1999
                        Commission File Number 1-11758
                       Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
               Delaware                              36-3145972
    (State or other jurisdiction of     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)
             1585 Broadway                               10036
            New York, N.Y.                           (Zip Code)
    (Address of principal executive
               offices)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 761-4000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES [X] NO [_]
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
  Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant at January 12, 2000 was approximately $66,689,313,224. For purposes
of this information, the outstanding shares of common stock owned by (1)
directors and executive officers of the Registrant and (2) certain senior
officers of certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Registrant who are
subject to certain restrictions on voting and disposition, were deemed to be
shares of common stock held by affiliates.
  Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date:
  As of January 12, 2000, there were 1,139,379,666 shares of Common Stock,
$.01 par value, outstanding.
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
(1) Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders--
    Incorporated in part in Form 10-K, Parts I, II and IV.
(2) Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. Proxy Statement for its 2000 Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders--Incorporated in part in Form 10-K, Part III.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                    PART I

Item 1. Business

Background and Overview

  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (the "Company"*) is a preeminent global
financial services firm that maintains leading market positions in each of its
three primary businesses:

  .  securities;

  .  asset management; and

  .  credit services.

  The Company combines global strength in investment banking and institutional
sales and trading with strength in providing full-service and on-line
brokerage services, investment and global asset management services and,
primarily through its Discover(R) Card brand, quality consumer credit
products. The Company provides its products and services to a large and
diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations,
governments, financial institutions and individuals.**

  As of November 30, 1999, the Company had the second largest financial
advisor sales organization in the United States and had 12,674 professional
financial advisors and 475 securities branch offices globally. The Company
also had one of the largest global asset management operations of any full-
service securities firm, with total assets under management or supervision of
$425 billion. In addition, based on its approximately 38.5 million general
purpose credit card accounts as of November 30, 1999, the Company was one of
the nation's largest credit card issuers, with the largest proprietary
merchant and cash access network in the United States.

  The Company's securities businesses ("Securities") include:

  .  Securities underwriting and distribution;

  .  Financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and
     acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance;

  .  Sales, trading and market-making activities in equity and fixed income
     securities, foreign exchange, commodities and derivatives, including
     proprietary trading and arbitrage activities and securities lending;

  .  Full-service and online brokerage services for individual investors and
     financial advisory services for high net worth clients; and

  .  Principal investing, including private equity activities.

- --------
*  Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" means Morgan
   Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

** Certain statements contained herein, including (without limitation) certain
   statements made under "Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3 of this Report;
   "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
   Operations" incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 7 of this Report
   ("MD&A"); and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk"
   incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 7A of this Report, are forward-
   looking statements. The matters referred to in such statements could be
   affected by the risks and uncertainties involved in the Company's
   businesses, including (without limitation) the effect of economic and
   market conditions, the level and volatility of interest rates and currency
   values and equity and commodity prices, the actions undertaken by both
   current and potential new competitors, the impact of current, pending or
   future legislation and regulation both in the United States and throughout
   the world, the potential effects of technological changes and other risks
   and uncertainties detailed in the MD&A and in "Competition and Regulation"
   under "Securities," "Asset Management" and "Credit Services" herein.


  The Company's asset management businesses ("Asset Management") include:

  .  Asset management products and services for individual investors,
     primarily through Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Advisors ("MSDW Advisors")
     and Van Kampen Investments ("Van Kampen"); and

  .  Global asset and portfolio management for institutional investors,
     primarily through Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management
     ("MSDW Investment Management") and Miller Anderson & Sherrerd ("MAS").

  The Company's credit services businesses ("Credit Services") include:

  .  Discover Card, other proprietary general purpose credit cards and the
     Morgan Stanley Dean Witter CardSM ("MSDW Card"); and

  .  Discover/Novus(R) Network, a proprietary network of merchant and cash
     access locations.

  The Company conducts its worldwide businesses through several highly
integrated subsidiaries and affiliates, which frequently participate together
in the facilitation and consummation of a single transaction. Because of the
increasing integration of the international financial markets, the Company
manages its principal operating subsidiaries on a coordinated global basis
with a view to the profitability of the enterprise as a whole. Financial
information concerning the Company for each of the three fiscal years ended
November 30, 1999, November 30, 1998 and November 30, 1997 is set forth in the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto in the 1999 Annual
Report to Shareholders and incorporated herein by reference.

  The Company believes that technological advancements on the Internet and the
growth of electronic commerce will continue to present both challenges and
opportunities to the Company and could lead to significant changes and
innovations. The Company's initiatives in this area have included Web-enabling
existing businesses and enhancing client communication and access to
information and services. For example, ClientLinkSM, the focal point of the
Company's institutional client connectivity strategy, provides clients with a
private, secure Internet platform that delivers browser-based information,
products and services across many of the Company's business units. The Company
has also been making investments or otherwise participating in alternative
trading systems, electronic communication networks and related businesses or
technologies.

  The Company conducts its business from its headquarters in New York City,
its regional offices and branches throughout the United States, and its
principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other financial centers
throughout the world. At November 30, 1999, the Company had 55,288 employees.
The Company is a combination of Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("Dean Witter
Discover") and Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") and was formed
pursuant to a merger of equals that was effected on May 31, 1997 (the
"Merger"). The Company was originally incorporated under the laws of the State
of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924.

                                  SECURITIES

  The Company provides worldwide financial advisory and capital-raising
services to a diverse group of domestic and international corporate and
institutional clients, primarily through Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
("MS&Co."), Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited, Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter Japan Limited and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Asia Limited, among other
subsidiaries. These subsidiaries also conduct sales and trading activities
around the world, both as principal and as agent on behalf of a wide range of
domestic and international institutional investors. The Company also sponsors,
acts as general partner for and invests in several limited partnerships that
conduct a variety of activities broadly described as principal investing. In
addition, the Company provides individual investors with a broad range of
securities and savings products and services, primarily through Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. ("DWR"). The Company offers its Securities services on a global
basis under the brand name "Morgan Stanley Dean Witter."




Investment Banking

 Underwriting

  The Company manages and participates in public offerings and private
placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. The Company is a
leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related
securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts
("ADRs"). The Company is also a leading underwriter of debt and other fixed
income securities, including investment grade debt, high-yield securities
(debt issued by non-investment grade issuers), tax-exempt securities,
mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and commercial paper and
other short-term securities.

 Financial Advisory Services

  The Company provides domestic and international corporate and institutional
clients with a wide range of advisory services on key strategic matters such
as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense strategies, joint
ventures, privatizations, spin-offs, restructurings, proxy and consent
solicitations, tender offers, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts. Other
services include advice with respect to recapitalizations, rights offerings,
dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk
management strategies and long-range financial planning. The Company also
furnishes advice and services in connection with project financings, including
infrastructure, electric power and natural resource projects. In addition, the
Company provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale,
leasing and financing of real estate.

 Financing and Investing

  In connection with its investment banking activities, the Company from time
to time also provides financing or financing commitments to certain companies.
For example, the Company may provide extensions of credit to leveraged
companies in the form of senior or subordinated debt, as well as bridge
financing on a select basis. The Company also conducts senior lending
activities, including the origination and syndication of senior secured loans
of non-investment grade companies.

  The Company also makes equity and equity-related investments that arise out
of its worldwide investment banking activities through Princes Gate Investors
II, L.P. ("Princes Gate"), the general partner of which is a subsidiary of the
Company. Princes Gate is a limited partnership with $1 billion in aggregate
investment capacity that was formed to invest in special situation
opportunities. Princes Gate generally makes minority investments that are
short to medium-term in duration. Princes Gate will not make new investments
after February 2000. In January 2000, the Company launched fund-raising for
Princes Gate Investors III, L.P., a successor investment partnership, to
continue Princes Gate's investment focus.

Sales, Trading and Market-Making Activities

 Equity

  The Company's equity sales, trading and market-making activities cover
domestic and foreign equity and equity-related products, including ADRs, World
Equity Benchmark Shares ("WEBSSM") and restricted/control stock; convertible
debt and preferred securities, including Preferred Equity Redemption
Cumulative Stock ("PERCS(R)"), Performance Equity-linked Redemption Quarterly-
pay Securities ("PERQSSM") and warrants; equity index products; equity swaps;
and options and other structured products. The Company also advises clients in
connection with international index arbitrage, equity repurchases (including
put strategies) and program and block trade execution. In addition, the
Company engages in a variety of proprietary trading and arbitrage activities
in equity securities and equity-related products for its own account. The
Company's equity sales, trading and market-making activities are conducted
both on stock exchanges and in over-the-counter ("OTC") transactions.

  The Company is a member of most major stock exchanges around the world,
including the New York Stock Exchange, the London Stock Exchange, the
Frankfurt Stock Exchange, the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Stock Exchange of
Hong Kong.



  The Company also provides various equity financing services, including prime
brokerage, which offers consolidated clearance and settlement of securities
trades, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services. The Company acts
both as principal and agent in stock borrowing and stock loan transactions in
support of its domestic and international trading and brokerage, asset
management and clearing activities, and as an intermediary between broker-
dealers.

 Fixed Income

  The Company trades and makes markets in a variety of domestic and
international debt and other fixed income securities and related products,
including non-convertible preferred stock, investment grade corporate debt,
high-yield securities, senior loans, government securities, municipal
securities, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, real estate
loan products, commercial paper, money market and other short-term securities,
and interest rate and other swaps. The Company also advises institutional
accounts and other clients on investment strategies, develops swap and other
risk management strategies for its customers, and assists corporations in
their repurchases of debt. The Company is also involved in structuring debt
securities and derivatives with multiple risk/return factors designed to suit
investor objectives, including using repackaged asset vehicles through which
investors can restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or
recharacterize risk profiles.

  The Company also borrows and lends fixed income securities, and acts as an
intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds utilizing
repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements.

  The Company is one of 30 primary dealers of U.S. government securities
currently recognized by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and a member of
the selling groups responsible for distributing various U.S. agency and other
debt securities. The Company is also a member of the primary syndicates that
underwrite German government bonds and Japanese government bonds and a primary
dealer in Belgian, Canadian, French, Italian and U.K. government bonds.

 Foreign Exchange and Commodities

  The Company actively trades numerous foreign currencies on a spot and
forward basis with its customers, for its own account and to hedge its
securities positions, assets or liabilities. In connection with its market-
making activities, the Company takes open positions in the foreign exchange
market for its own account. On a more limited basis, the Company also enters
into forward currency transactions both as agent and as principal. The Company
is a leading participant in currency futures trading at the International
Monetary Market division of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and is a leading
dealer in OTC and exchange-traded currency options worldwide.

  The Company also trades as principal in the spot, forward and futures
markets in a variety of commodities, including precious metals, base metals,
crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power and related energy
products. The Company is an active market-maker in swaps and OTC options on
commodities such as metals, crude oil, oil products, natural gas and
electricity, and offers a range of hedging programs to customers relating to
production, consumption and reserve/inventory management. The Company is an
electricity power marketer in the United States and owns a majority equity
interest in an exempt wholesale generator from which the Company is the
exclusive purchaser of electric power.

 Derivatives

  The Company offers to clients and takes proprietary positions in a variety
of financial instruments known as "derivative products" or "derivatives."
These products may be in the form of exchange-traded futures and options or
OTC forwards, options, swaps, caps, collars, floors, swap options or similar
instruments which derive their value from underlying interest rates, foreign
exchange rates, commodities, equity instruments, equity indices or other
assets. Derivatives facilitate risk transfer and enhance liquidity in the
marketplace, and the origination



and trading of derivatives are often utilized to adjust risk profiles, such as
exposure to interest rate or currency risk, or to take proprietary positions.
In addition, the Company uses derivative products to assist in asset and
liability management and to reduce borrowing costs. All of the Company's
trading-related business units use derivative products as an integral part of
their respective trading strategies, and these products are also used
extensively to manage the market exposure that results from proprietary
trading activities. In addition, as a dealer in certain derivative products
(most notably interest rate and currency swaps), the Company structures and
enters into derivative contracts to meet a variety of investment, risk
management and other financial objectives of its clients. Through a triple-A
rated subsidiary of the Company (Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc.), the
Company also enters into swap and related derivative transactions with certain
clients seeking a triple-A rated counterparty.*

 Trading Risk and Risk Management

  The market for some of the securities in which the Company trades, invests
and makes markets, including high-yield debt securities, senior loans, real
estate loan products, securities or obligations of emerging market issuers or
counterparties and certain derivative instruments, has been, and may in the
future be, characterized by periods of illiquidity. In addition, the Company,
through its market-making and trading activities, may be the sole or principal
source of liquidity in certain issues and, as a result, may substantially
affect the prices at which such issues trade. To mitigate the potential impact
on the Company's operating results of the greater risks inherent in these
securities and other instruments, the Company monitors and manages its total
inventory positions in a manner consistent with its overall risk management
policies and procedures.

  The Company's use of derivative products may subject the Company to various
additional risks, although in many cases derivatives serve to reduce, rather
than increase, the Company's exposure to losses from market, credit and other
risks. In times of market stress, liquidity in certain derivatives positions,
as well as in underlying cash instruments, may be reduced. The Company manages
the risks associated with derivative products in a manner consistent with its
overall risk management policies. Exposure to changes in interest rates,
foreign currencies and other factors are managed on an individual product
basis, generally through offsetting or other positions in a variety of
financial instruments and derivative products. In addition, in connection with
certain derivatives, the Company has agreements with customers and
counterparties that permit the Company to close out positions or require
additional (and, in many cases, excess) collateral if certain events occur. In
certain instances, the Company may also limit the types of derivative products
that may be traded in a particular account.

  At any given point in time, the Company may hold, or be committed to
purchase, large positions in certain types of securities or securities of a
single issuer, sovereign governments, issuers located in a particular country
or geographic area, public and private issuers in developing countries or
issuers engaged in a particular industry. In addition, a large portion of the
collateral held by the Company for reverse repurchase agreements and bonds
borrowed consists of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal
agencies or non-U.S. governments.

  See also "Risk Management" incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 7A of
this Report.

 MSCI

  Morgan Stanley Capital International Inc. ("MSCI"), a majority-owned
subsidiary of the Company, markets and distributes over 3,500 country,
industry and regional equity and fixed income benchmark indices (including The
World, EAFE(R) and Emerging Market Free Indices) covering 51 countries, and
has a 30-year historical database that includes fundamental and valuation data
on over 5,500 companies in developed and emerging market countries. Investment
professionals around the world use MSCI data for purposes such as performance
measurement, security valuation and asset allocation.
- --------
*  For a detailed discussion of the Company's use of derivatives, see "MD&A--
   Derivative Financial Instruments" incorporated by reference in Part II,
   Item 7 of this Report, "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9"
   incorporated by reference in Part II, Item 8 of this Report and "Notes to
   Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6" incorporated by reference in
   Part II, Item 8 of this Report.



Principal Investing

  The Company's principal investing activities include, among other things,
making commitments to purchase, and making negotiated investments in, equity
and debt securities in connection with merger, acquisition, restructuring,
private investment and leveraged capital transactions, either for the accounts
of private investment funds in which the Company participates or to a lesser
extent for its own account. These activities include venture capital
investments and investments in real estate assets, portfolios and operating
companies.

  The Company generally acts as general partner of the private investment
funds through which certain of its principal investing activities are
conducted, and typically also contributes a minority of the capital of such
funds. Clients of the Company are limited partners in the funds. The Company
normally receives management fees for operating the private investment funds,
in addition to a share of profits when investment performance criteria have
been met.

  The Company conducts a substantial portion of its private equity business
through three groups of investment funds, Capital Partners, Venture Partners
and Emerging Markets (collectively, the "Private Equity Funds"). The Private
Equity Funds invest on a global basis in private equity and equity-related
securities of companies in a wide range of industries. Collectively, the
Private Equity Funds currently have $4 billion in capital commitments. As of
November 30, 1999, the Private Equity Funds had investments with $1.7 billion
of cost basis related to 91 companies.

  Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund III, L.P. ("MSREF III") was formed in 1997
with approximately $2.1 billion in capital commitments to invest in U.S and
international real estate assets and companies. As of November 30, 1999, MSREF
III and its predecessor funds (which are no longer making new investments) had
$1.5 billion of cost basis in real estate assets in their portfolios relating
to 69 investments.

  Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations Investment Program ("Special
Situations") was created in 1997 as a series of separate accounts managed by
MSDW Investment Management with $375 million in capital commitments to invest
in private equity or equity-related securities of real estate companies
(primarily real estate investment trusts). As of November 30, 1999, Special
Situations had $294 million of cost basis in its portfolios related to 14 real
estate companies.

  From time to time, the Company expects to sponsor additional private
investment funds and commit to invest in such funds.

  Equity securities purchased in principal investment transactions generally
are held for appreciation, are not readily marketable and do not provide
dividend income. It is not possible to determine when or if the Company will
realize the value of the investments, including any appreciation, dividends or
other distributions thereon, since, among other factors, such investments are
generally subject to restrictions on such realization relating to the
circumstances of particular transactions. Moreover, estimates of the eventual
realizable value of the investments fluctuate significantly over time in light
of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in
relation to specific transactions or other factors, including the financial
leverage involved in the underlying transactions.

  The Company may also underwrite, trade, invest and make markets in, and
publish research with respect to, securities and senior loans issued by
companies in which the Company or the private investment funds have invested.
In addition, the Company may provide financial advisory services to, and/or
have securities and commodity trading relationships with, these entities. From
time to time, the Company may provide loans, financing commitments or other
extensions of credit, including on a subordinated and interim basis, to
companies (which may otherwise be leveraged) associated with its principal
investing activities.



Securities Services to Individual Investors

 Private Client Group

  The Company's individual securities business, the Private Client Group,
offers clients, principally through DWR, a broad range of securities and
investment products and services that are supported by the Company's
investment banking, research, asset management, execution and operational
resources. At November 30, 1999, the Company had the second largest financial
advisor sales organization in the United States and had 12,674 financial
advisors located in 475 securities branch offices globally. The Company
provided securities and investment services to approximately 4.5 million
client accounts having assets of $583 billion at November 30, 1999.

  The Company focuses on providing its clients with comprehensive financial
planning services, tailored to meet individual investment goals and risk
profiles. The Company believes that knowledgeable investment professionals are
instrumental to effectively serving a large portion of its individual investor
client base and continually seeks to grow and train its financial advisor
sales organization.

  The Company provides execution, trading and research services to its
individual clients for listed equity securities, OTC equity securities,
options and ADRs. The Company also provides execution, trading and research
services to individual clients for a broad range of fixed income securities,
including U.S. government obligations, mortgage and other asset-backed
securities, corporate bonds, preferred stocks, municipal securities and
certificates of deposit. The Company's fixed income trading activity on behalf
of individual investors focuses primarily on establishing and maintaining
inventory based upon actual and anticipated orders from its clients, rather
than risk-oriented proprietary trading. The Company's financial advisor sales
force works together with its institutional fixed income platform in order to
provide mid-sized institutions with greater access to the Company's
comprehensive products and research capabilities.

  The Company also provides its clients with an extensive array of investment
and credit products and services, including mutual funds, unit investment
trusts, insurance products, financial planning, retirement planning, personal
trust and estate planning, tax planning, credit management and account
services. The Company's Active Assets Account(R) ("AAA Account") permits
clients to consolidate their financial assets into a single account, invest in
a wide variety of investment products and automatically invest funds daily in
a variety of money market options, including an account insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The Company's AAA Account customers
have access to ClientServSM, the Company's Internet technology service, which
allows them to track their accounts on-line, access research reports and real-
time securities quotes, create customized personal portfolio monitors and
chart the performance of various securities over time. The Company also offers
customers a broad array of investment choices for individual retirement
planning, and provides individual annuities and complete defined contribution
plan services for businesses, including 401(k) plans.

  The Company also provides investment consulting services that assist clients
in analyzing their investment objectives and in selecting investment advisory
services offered by unaffiliated investment advisors. Through its wholly-owned
insurance agency subsidiaries, the Company also acts as a national general
agency for leading insurance carriers to meet the insurance and annuity needs
of individual investors. The Company originates and services a broad range of
consumer loans secured by mortgages on residential properties. The Company
also offers trust and fiduciary services to both individual and corporate
clients, primarily trustee services for personal trusts and tax-qualified
retirement plans.

  Through Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Online, Inc. (formerly known as Discover
Brokerage Direct Inc.) ("MSDW Online"), a wholly-owned subsidiary, the Company
provides services to the growing number of consumers utilizing alternatives to
the traditional brokerage channel to obtain financial and other investment
services. MSDW Online permits customers to invest and trade directly through
its Internet site, www.msdwonline.com, through automated telephone trading,
wireless trading or through a registered



representative. The financial services provided by MSDW Online include a broad
range of investment options, detailed account information, real-time
securities price quotes, graphs and portfolio performance information and
trade execution at competitive rates. Clients can also subscribe to
proprietary equity research reports and analysts' ratings. MSDW Online also
offers customers extended trading hours through MarketXT, the ability to trade
U.S. treasury securities and certain municipal securities on-line every
weekday, 24 hours per day and, to qualified customers, access to initial
public offerings and other issues underwritten by the Company.

  In October 1999, the Company launched ichoiceSM, the service platform for
individual investors that combines the products and services offered by the
Private Client Group with the technological capabilities of MSDW Online. The
Company's ichoice platform offers clients the ability to select the particular
financial service relationship that best suits their needs. Investors may
choose the traditional full-service relationship, including personalized
professional advice from a financial advisor and transactions on a per trade
basis, enhanced by the Internet technology services of ClientServ. Investors
who want to combine a full-service relationship with fee-based pricing and the
flexibility to trade on-line can select a Morgan Stanley Dean Witter ChoiceSM
account. This account offers clients virtually unlimited transactions for a
fee based on eligible assets and allows them to place trades either through
their financial advisor or on-line through ClientServ. Self-directed investors
who wish to make decisions independently, without professional advice, may
open an MSDW Online account and execute transactions on their own for a fixed
fee per trade. The Company expects the integration of its full-service and on-
line businesses to continue in subsequent phases of its ichoice platform
rollout.

 Private Wealth Management

  The Company's Private Wealth Management Group ("PWM") is a financial
advisory group that provides solutions to individuals, families and
foundations who control significant pools of wealth. PWM has offices in the
United States, Europe and Asia and provides access to the Company's trading
capabilities, fundamental research and analytical products, as well as to its
securities underwritings. PWM financial advisors manage specific financial
asset classes and provide tailored global asset allocation strategies for its
clients. PWM also offers private investors the opportunity to co-invest with
the Company in its principal investing activities and specialized funds.
Private banking services and other PWM financial advisory services are
provided to select international clients through Bank Morgan Stanley AG, the
Company's Swiss bank subsidiary.

 International Private Client Group

  The International Private Client Group encompasses all of the Company's
international activities relating to individual securities, asset management
and electronic commerce. These activities include all non-U.S. PWM efforts
detailed above. In 1999, the Company strengthened its initiative to expand its
businesses internationally with its acquisition of AB Asesores, the largest
independent financial services firm in Spain, and its agreement to acquire a
minority stake in Area S.p.A., a leading Italian independent retail financial
advisory firm. The Company also formed an alliance with Sanwa Bank to pursue
retail brokerage and asset management opportunities in Japan. See also "ASSET
MANAGEMENT."

Research

  The Company's global research department ("Research"), comprised of
economists, industry analysts and strategists, is actively engaged in a wide
range of research activities. Research produces reports and studies on the
economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses and
industry developments. It analyzes worldwide trends covering a broad range of
industries and more than 2,000 individual companies, half of which are located
outside of the United States. Research also provides analyses and forecasts
relating to economic and monetary developments affecting matters such as
interest rates, foreign currencies and securities and economic trends. Support
for the sales and trading of fixed income securities is also provided in the
form of quantitative and credit analyses and the development of research
products that are distributed to the Company's individual and institutional
clients. Timely data contained in Research's numerous publications, such as
the



Investment Strategy Chartbook and The Competitive Edge, are disseminated to
both individual and institutional investors through a proprietary database
accessible via the Internet and through the Company's financial advisors. In
addition, Research provides analytical support and publishes reports on
mortgage-related securities and the markets in which they are traded and does
original research on valuation techniques.

Operations and Information Processing

  The Company executes and clears all transactions conducted by its Securities
businesses (delivery and receipt of securities and transfer of related funds)
through its own facilities and through memberships in various clearing
corporations. In order to minimize the risks of systems failures, the Company
maintains redundant processing systems.

Competition and Regulation

 Competition

  The Company encounters intense competition in all aspects of its Securities
business and competes directly in the United States and on a worldwide basis
with other securities and financial services firms. Among the principal
competitive factors affecting the Company's Securities businesses are the
Company's reputation, the quality of its professionals and other personnel,
its products and services, relative pricing and its capability in originating
and marketing innovative products and services. The Company's private
investment funds compete for investors and for investment opportunities with
other private investment funds, some of which are sponsored by financial
institutions, and in specific industries with companies that operate in such
industries.

  The Company has experienced increased competition for qualified employees in
recent years, including from companies engaged in Internet-related businesses
and private equity funds, in addition to the traditional competition for
employees in the financial services, insurance and management consulting
industries. The Company's ability to sustain or improve its competitive
position will substantially depend on its ability to continue to attract and
retain qualified employees. The Company's competitive position will also be
affected by its ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is
generally dependent on the Company's credit ratings) and to commit capital
efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive investment banking and
sales, trading and market-making activities.

  In addition to competition from firms traditionally engaged in the financial
services business, there has been increasing competition in recent years from
other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies, on-line
financial services providers, sponsors of mutual funds and other companies
offering financial services both in the United States and on a worldwide
basis. The financial services industry has also experienced consolidation and
convergence in recent years, as institutions involved in a broad range of
financial services industries, such as investment banking, brokerage, asset
management, commercial banking and insurance have merged. This convergence
trend is expected to continue, and could result in the Company's competitors
gaining greater capital and other resources, a broader range of products and
services and/or more geographic diversity. In November 1999, the Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act was passed in the United States, effectively repealing certain
sections of the 1933 Glass-Steagall Act. Its passage allows commercial banks,
securities firms and insurance firms to affiliate, which may accelerate
consolidation and lead to increasing competition in markets traditionally
dominated by investment banks and retail securities firms.

  The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation
and globalization also present technological, risk management and other
infrastructure challenges that will require effective resource allocation in
order for the Company to remain competitive.

 Regulation

  The Company's Securities business is, and the securities, commodities and
financial services industries generally are, subject to extensive regulation
in the United States, at both the federal and state levels, and



internationally. The Company is subject to the rules and regulations of the
various regulatory bodies that are charged with safeguarding the integrity of
the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests
of customers participating in those markets.

  MS&Co., DWR and MSDW Online are registered as broker-dealers with the
Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and in all 50 states, the District
of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and are members of the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD"). MS&Co. and DWR are also members of the New
York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Broker-dealers are subject to regulation by
securities administrators in those states in which they conduct business.
Broker-dealers are also subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the
securities business, including sales and trading practices, use and
safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure, record-
keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. The SEC, other
governmental regulatory authorities, including state securities commissions,
and self-regulatory organizations may institute administrative proceedings
against broker-dealers or members, which could result in censure, fine, the
issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the suspension or expulsion from the
securities industry of such broker-dealer or member or its officers or
employees, or other similar consequences. Occasionally, the Company's
subsidiaries have been subject to investigations, other proceedings and fines
relating to infractions of various regulations relating to their activities as
broker-dealers, none of which, to date, has had a material adverse effect on
the Company or its business.

  Margin lending by certain subsidiaries is subject to the margin rules of the
Federal Reserve Board that restrict the amount they may lend in connection
with certain purchases of securities by customers, and such subsidiaries are
also required by NYSE rules to impose maintenance requirements on the amount
of securities contained in margin accounts. These rules augment the Company's
margin policies, which in many cases are more stringent.

  As futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and DWR are registered with the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC"), and their activities in the
futures and options-on-futures markets are subject to regulation by the CFTC
and various domestic boards of trade and other commodity exchanges. Certain
subsidiaries of the Company are registered as commodity trading advisers
and/or commodity pool operators with the CFTC. The Company's futures and
options-on-futures business is also regulated by the National Futures
Association, a not-for-profit membership corporation that has been designated
a registered futures association by the CFTC and of which MS&Co. and DWR are
members.

  With respect to OTC derivatives, the Company is a member of the
International Swaps and Derivatives Association ("ISDA"), the Group of 30 and
the Derivatives Policy Group, a group of securities firms formed at the
request of the SEC and CFTC to address concerns regarding the OTC derivatives
activities of U.S. broker-dealer affiliates not subject to direct regulatory
oversight. The Derivatives Policy Group has agreed to adhere to a voluntary
oversight framework relating to reporting, capital, management controls and
counterparty relationships.

  The Company is also a member of the Counterparty Risk Management Policy
Group that was formed in January 1999 by a group of twelve major international
commercial and investment banks. The group was formed with the objective of
strengthening practices relating to the management of market, counterparty
credit and liquidity risk. In June 1999, the group released its report and
recommendations, which include enhanced information sharing between
counterparties, improved internal risk transparency for senior managements and
regulators and stronger market-wide conventions for key credit documentation
practices.

  Certain of the Company's government securities activities are conducted
through Morgan Stanley Market Products Inc., a member of the NASD and
registered as a government securities broker-dealer with the SEC and in
certain states. The Department of the Treasury has promulgated regulations
concerning, among other things, capital adequacy, custody and use of
government securities and transfers and control of government securities
subject to repurchase transactions. The rules of the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board, which are enforced by the NASD, govern the municipal
securities activities of the Company.



  The Company's Securities business is also subject to extensive regulation by
various non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, central banks and
regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the Company
maintains an office. For example, the Company's Securities business in the
U.K. is regulated by the Securities and Futures Authority and a number of
exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and the London International
Financial Futures and Options Exchange; the Deutsche Borse AG, the
Bundesaufsichtsamt fur das Kreditwesen (the Federal Banking Supervisory
Authority) and Eurex Deutschland, among others, regulate the Company's
activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Company's Securities
business in Japan is subject to Japanese law applicable to foreign securities
firms and related regulations of the Financial Supervisory Agency and the
Japanese Ministry of Finance and to the rules of the Bank of Japan, the
Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and
futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities
Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange; the Monetary
Authority of Singapore and the Singapore International Monetary Exchange Ltd.
regulate the Company's business in Singapore; and the Company's Securities
operations in Hong Kong are regulated by the Securities and Futures
Commission, The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Ltd. and the Hong Kong Futures
Exchange Ltd.

  As registered broker-dealers and member firms of the NYSE, certain
subsidiaries of the Company, including MS&Co. and DWR, are subject to the
SEC's net capital rule, and, as futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and DWR
are subject to the net capital requirements of the CFTC and various commodity
exchanges. Many non-U.S. securities exchanges and regulatory authorities also
either have imposed or are imposing rules relating to capital requirements
that apply to subsidiaries of the Company (such as rules that have been
promulgated in connection with the European Union Capital Adequacy Directive),
including certain European subsidiaries that are considered banking
organizations under local law. These rules, which specify minimum capital
requirements, are designed to measure general financial integrity and
liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of assets be kept in
relatively liquid form. Compliance with the capital requirements may limit
those operations of the Company that require the intensive use of capital,
such as underwriting, principal investing and trading activities, and the
financing of customer account balances. Such requirements also restrict the
Company's ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries, which in turn may
limit the Company's ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase
shares of its outstanding capital stock. A change in such rules or the
imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount
of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually
large charge against capital, could adversely affect the ability of the
Company to pay dividends or to expand or even maintain its present levels of
business.

  New legislation or regulation, including any relating to the activities of
affiliates of broker-dealers, changes in rules promulgated by the SEC or other
U.S. or international governmental, regulatory or self-regulatory authorities
(such as changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and related regulations or
rules promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board) or changes in
the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may
materially adversely affect the financial condition or results of operation of
the Company.

  The Company's subsidiaries which act as general partners of the private
investment funds are generally required to register as investment advisors
with the SEC. See also "ASSET MANAGEMENT--Competition and Regulation--
Regulation." By virtue of the Company's affiliation with the private
investment funds that own equity interests in companies that operate in
certain regulated industries (e.g., insurance or broadcasting), or that are
subject to regulation in non-U.S. jurisdictions, the Company could be subject
to additional regulation applicable to such industries or in such
jurisdictions.



                               ASSET MANAGEMENT

  The Company manages and administers a wide range of asset management
products for individual investors, primarily through MSDW Advisors and Van
Kampen, and provides global asset and portfolio management to a wide range of
institutional investors through MSDW Investment Management. At November 30,
1999, the Company had $425 billion of assets under management or supervision.

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Advisors

  MSDW Advisors develops, markets and manages a broad spectrum of proprietary
open- and closed-end mutual funds and provides professional money management
services on a customized basis to affluent individuals, institutional
investors and retirement plan sponsors. MSDW Advisors assets under management
include equities, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income securities and money
market instruments. At November 30, 1999, there were 127 funds and portfolios
with assets of approximately $142 billion for which MSDW Advisors and Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter Services Company Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company, served in various investment management and administrative
capacities.

  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Distributors Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the Company and a registered broker-dealer ("MSDW Distributors"), distributes
shares of MSDW Advisors products that are open-end investment companies. MSDW
Distributors has entered into agreements with DWR and other selected dealers
for the marketing and distribution of such products. DWR, its affiliates and
other selected dealers are compensated for their distribution-related expenses
through contingent deferred sales charges, front-end sales charges and fees
authorized pursuant to the provisions of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment
Company Act of 1940.

Van Kampen Investments

  Van Kampen operates a family of open- and closed-end mutual funds for
individual and institutional shareholders, and markets and provides ongoing
evaluation and credit review for equity and fixed income unit investment
trusts ("UITs"). Sponsored fund assets cover a broad range of taxable and tax-
exempt domestic and international products. Sponsored UITs include portfolios
of equity securities and nationally diversified and single-state insured and
uninsured municipal securities and, depending on market demand, also include
portfolios of government securities, insured and uninsured corporate debt
securities and global fixed income securities. At November 30, 1999, Van
Kampen had more than 50 open-end funds and 39 closed-end funds and 2,700
series of UITs, and Van Kampen and its affiliates managed, administered or
supervised approximately $88 billion in assets.

  Van Kampen distributes its investment products through a large and
diversified network of unaffiliated national and regional broker-dealers,
commercial banks and thrifts, insurance companies and their affiliated broker-
dealers and financial planners ("retail distribution firms"), as well as the
Company's financial advisors. A relatively small number of retail distribution
firms account for a substantial portion of sales of Van Kampen products, and
Van Kampen has proprietary and preferred distribution relationships with
several unaffiliated retail distribution firms.

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Investment Management

  MSDW Investment Management, through its various advisory entities, including
MAS, primarily manages financial assets for institutions around the world,
including pension funds, corporations, non-profit organizations and
governmental agencies. MSDW Investment Management offers product lines
covering a full range of equity, fixed income and alternative investments in
developed and emerging markets, and a variety of investment styles including
value, growth and blended; active and passive management; and diversified and
concentrated portfolios. Products are available through separate account
management, pooled vehicles, U.S. and non-U.S. mutual funds and variable
annuities. See also "International Private Client Group." A broad range of
fiduciary services for pension funds and trusts is also available through MSDW
Investment Management.



  At November 30, 1999, MSDW Investment Management had assets under management
or supervision of approximately $167 billion, including approximately $68
billion related to international products. Approximately $39 billion of these
assets related to mutual funds and approximately $128 billion related to
separate accounts, pooled vehicles and other arrangements.

  The Company distributes certain domestic and international investment
products advised or sub-advised by MSDW Investment Management through the
distribution networks of MSDW Advisors and Van Kampen.

Competition and Regulation

 Competition

  The Company's Asset Management business competes in the highly competitive
investment management industry, in which approximately 7,932 open-end
investment management companies held over $6.4 trillion in assets as of
November 30, 1999. Competition in the sale of mutual funds is affected by a
number of factors, including investment objectives and performance,
advertising and sales promotion efforts, level of fees, distribution channels
and types and quality of services offered. In addition to fund products
offered by other broker-dealers, the funds offered by the Company compete with
funds sold directly by investment management firms and insurance companies, as
well as with other investment alternatives sold by such companies and by banks
and other financial institutions.

 Regulation

  The Company and certain subsidiaries, including MS&Co., DWR, and those
related to MSDW Advisors, Van Kampen and MSDW Investment Management, are
registered as investment advisers with the SEC and in certain states.
Virtually all aspects of the Company's investment advisory business are
subject to various federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations are primarily intended to benefit the investment product holder
and generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative
powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company from carrying on
its investment advisory business in the event that it fails to comply with
such laws and regulations. Possible sanctions which may be imposed for such
failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on the
Company's engaging in the investment advisory business for specified periods
of time, the revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.

  The Company's Asset Management business is also subject to regulation
outside the United States. For example, the Investment Management Regulatory
Organization Limited regulates the Company's business in the United Kingdom;
the Japanese Ministry of Finance and the Japan Securities Investment Advisors
Association regulates the Company's business in Japan; the Securities and
Exchange Board of India regulates the Company's business in India; and the
Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates the Company's business in Singapore.

  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Trust FSB ("MSDWT"), a subsidiary of the Company
that provides trust, fiduciary and transfer agent services, is a federally
chartered savings bank and is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the federal Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS") and by the
FDIC. MSDWT is also a registered transfer agent, subject to regulation and
examination in such capacity by the SEC. As a result of its ownership of
MSDWT, the Company is registered with the OTS as a unitary savings and loan
holding company ("SLHC") and subject to regulation and examination by the OTS
as a SLHC.

                                CREDIT SERVICES

  Based on its approximately 38.5 million general purpose credit card accounts
as of November 30, 1999, the Company, through its Credit Services business,
was one of the largest single issuers of general purpose credit cards in the
United States. Credit Services' proprietary general purpose credit card
business is operated by the Company's Discover Financial Services business
unit, which also operates the Discover/Novus Network, the Company's
proprietary merchant and cash access network. The credit cards offered by
Discover Financial Services include the Discover Card, the Discover Platinum
Card ("Discover Platinum"), the MSDW Card, the Private Issue Card(R) by
Discover ("Private Issue"), and co-branded and affinity cards.



Discover Financial Services

  Discover Financial Services offers general purpose credit cards designed to
appeal to different market segments of consumers for use on the Discover/Novus
Network. The Discover/Novus Network is the largest independent credit card
network in the United States, consisting of more than 3.5 million merchant and
cash access locations accepting credit cards carrying the Discover/Novus logo.
Discover Financial Services offers several brands of proprietary cards,
including the Discover Card, Discover Platinum and Private Issue, as well as
co-branded and affinity cards.

  MSDW Card, the Company's first credit card issued outside of the United
States, was introduced in the United Kingdom in the latter half of fiscal
1999. The MSDW Card is issued through the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary,
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Bank Limited ("MSDW Bank Limited"), on the
Europay/MasterCard network.

  Discover Financial Services offers cardmembers various other financial
services, including credit insurance and card registration to protect against
losses in connection with card theft or loss. Cardmembers are also offered
money market and time deposit accounts.

  The Company records revenues from finance charges on cardmembers' revolving
balances, fees paid by merchants for transactions effected through the
Discover/Novus Network, transaction fees paid by cardmembers for cash
advances, late payment fees, over-limit fees, fees for returned checks and
fees from various product enhancements (e.g., credit life insurance).

  Most of the Company's proprietary general purpose credit cards are issued by
Greenwood Trust Company ("Greenwood Trust"), an indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company that is a state chartered bank under the laws of the
State of Delaware. Because of certain banking law restrictions, most of the
Company's proprietary general purpose credit cards have been limited to use in
personal and household, as opposed to commercial, transactions. See
"Competition and Regulation--Regulation."

  The Company has made recent enhancements in its customer services.
Cardmembers may register their account on-line with the Discover Card Account
Center which offers a menu of free e-mail notifications or reminders to
regularly inform cardmembers about the status of their accounts through the
Discover Inter@ctive feature. Types of notifications include reminders that a
cardmember's credit limit is being approached or that a minimum payment is
due. In addition, cardmembers may view detailed account information on-line,
such as recent transactions and account payments. Cardmembers may pay their
Discover Card bills on-line via the SmartCheckSM payment option at no cost and
receive exclusive discounts and special Cashback Bonus(R) awards by shopping
on-line at the Internet ShopCenterSM. Cardmembers may also use the Discover
Desk$hopSM virtual credit card to simplify shopping on-line and to access the
Discover Card Account Center.

Merchants

  Discover Card, Discover Platinum and Private Issue, as well as the Company's
other proprietary general purpose credit cards (exclusive of the MSDW Card),
are accepted only by merchants who are members of the Discover/Novus Network.
Since its establishment in 1986, the Discover/Novus Network has expanded
rapidly and currently includes more than 3.5 million merchant and cash access
locations across the United States.

  Discover Financial Services operates both the issuing and acquiring
businesses in the United States and accordingly retains the entire merchant
fee paid for transactions effected through the Discover/Novus Network. Because
of its independence from the bankcard associations, Discover Financial
Services has greater flexibility in its relationships with merchants than
members of bankcard associations. Discover Financial Services believes that
this enables it to better maintain and expand its merchant base by allowing it
to provide customized programs in such areas as processing and to otherwise
tailor program terms to meet specific merchant needs.



  Discover Financial Services employs its own national sales and support
force, as well as some independent sales agents, to increase and maintain its
merchant base. In addition, the Company conducts telemarketing operations for
the purpose of acquiring merchant business.

Marketing

  The Company, operating through Greenwood Trust and other domestic banking
subsidiaries that issue its proprietary general purpose credit cards, is
distinguished from credit card issuers that are members of bankcard
associations in that it directly controls the brand image, features, service
level and pricing of the Discover Card and other proprietary general purpose
credit cards to both cardmembers and merchants. In contrast, bankcard
association credit card issuers compete directly with other issuers using the
same brands and sharing common processes. The Company believes that its
ability to control its proprietary credit cards provides competitive
advantages that are not available to issuers of bankcard association credit
cards, including efficiencies in operations, product positioning and marketing
execution. The Company also has the ability to direct and deliver a
consistent, nationwide message for Discover Card and its other proprietary
general purpose credit cards. Because the Company manages all aspects of both
the cardmember and merchant relationship with respect to its proprietary
credit card programs, it can determine and promote its advertising campaign
and control the campaign's content, timing and promotional features.

  The Company promotes its proprietary general purpose credit cards through
the use of different and distinctive features that are designed to appeal to
different consumer bases. Discover Card, Discover Platinum and Private Issue
offer the Cashback Bonus award and no annual fee. Pursuant to the Cashback
Bonus award program, each year the Company pays cardmembers up to one percent
of their purchase amounts based upon their annual level of purchases. The
Cashback Bonus award is remitted to cardmembers in the form of a check or as a
credit to their accounts. If the Cashback Bonus award is five dollars or more,
Discover Platinum and Private Issue offer cardmembers the opportunity to
exchange their Cashback Bonus award checks for certificates from participating
merchants valued at double the check amounts. Private Issue cardmembers may
also elect a lower interest rate in lieu of participation in the Cashback
Bonus award program.

Credit

  Credit reviews are conducted for all cardmembers in order to establish that
standards of ability and willingness to pay are met. Applications that are not
pre-selected are evaluated by using a credit scoring system (a statistical
evaluation model) that is based on information provided by applicants and by
the credit bureaus. Applications not approved under the credit scoring system
may be selectively reviewed and approved by the Company's credit analysts.

  Applicants receiving pre-selected solicitations must satisfy criteria
specified by Discover Financial Services. All recipients of pre-selected
solicitations have been pre-screened through credit bureaus utilizing industry
and customized models. Pre-screening is a process by which an independent
credit reporting agency identifies individuals satisfying creditworthiness
criteria supplied by the Company (in the form of a point scoring model or
other screening factors) that are intended to provide a general indication,
based on available information, of such person's ability and willingness to
pay their financial obligations. Recipients who respond to the Company's pre-
selected solicitations are post-screened prior to enrollment in order to
confirm continued satisfaction of the Company's creditworthiness criteria.

  Each cardmember's credit line is reviewed at least annually and may be
reviewed more frequently if requested by the cardmember or if the Company
deems more frequent review appropriate. Such reviews include scoring the
cardmember's payment behavior on the applicable account as well as reviewing
the cardmember's credit bureau record. Actions that may result from an account
review include raising or lowering the cardmember's credit line or closing the
account. In addition, the Company, on a portfolio basis, performs monthly
monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles.




Operations

  The Company performs the functions required to service and operate its
proprietary cards' accounts either by itself or through processing agreements
that the Company has with third parties. These functions include new account
solicitation, application processing, new account fulfillment, transaction
authorization and processing, cardmember billing, payment processing, fraud
prevention and investigation, cardmember service and collection of delinquent
accounts. The Company maintains several operations centers throughout the
United States and an operations center in the United Kingdom. Discover
Financial Services' operations are also supported by systems at computer
centers operated by an unaffiliated communication services provider.

Competition and Regulation

 Competition

  The Company's Credit Services business competes in the highly competitive
credit card industry. The credit card market includes other bank-issued credit
cards (the vast majority of which bear the MasterCard or Visa servicemark) and
charge cards and credit cards issued by travel and entertainment companies.
Competition centers on merchant acceptance of credit cards, credit card
account acquisition and customer utilization of credit cards. Merchant
acceptance is based on both competitive transaction pricing and the volume and
usage of credit cards in circulation. Credit card account acquisition and
customer utilization are driven by the offering of credit cards with
competitive and appealing features, such as no annual fees, low introductory
interest rates and other customized features targeting specific consumer
groups.

  As new credit card issuers seek to enter the market and established issuers
seek to expand, sometimes through acquisitions of other credit card issuers or
portfolios, the credit card industry has seen increased use of advertising,
targeted marketing and pricing competition in interest rates, annual fees and
reward programs. More recently, issuers have increased their efforts to
attract balances from competing sources of credit via low-priced balance
transfer programs. In addition, issuers have aggressively marketed co-branded
credit cards, which offer various benefits relating to the business of the
issuer's co-branding partner. The Company believes its proprietary merchant
base enables it to promote its proprietary card brand names on a national
basis, thereby building customer acceptance and use of these cards.

 Regulation

  The Company conducts portions of its Credit Services business in the United
States through various wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries that are banking
institutions. Greenwood Trust and Bank of New Castle are state banks chartered
under the laws of the State of Delaware, and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Bank,
Inc. ("MSDW Bank") is an industrial loan company chartered under the laws of
the State of Utah (each a "Domestic Bank" and, collectively, the "Domestic
Banks"). Each of the Domestic Banks has its deposits insured by the FDIC, pays
FDIC assessments and is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the state banking commissioner of the state in which it is
chartered and by the FDIC.

  Generally, a company that controls a "bank," as defined in the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956 (the "BHCA"), is required to register as a bank holding
company and is subject to regulation as a bank holding company by the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Prior to Congress' passage of the
Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 ("CEBA"), a bank that engaged in less
than a full range of banking activities, such as Greenwood Trust, which does
not make commercial loans, was not considered a "bank" for purposes of the
BHCA. Under the CEBA amendments to the BHCA, Greenwood Trust is a "bank."
However, the CEBA amendments included grandfather provisions that allow the
Company to preserve its non-bank holding company status so long as certain
operational restrictions are followed. Favorable modifications to these
restrictions were recently enacted under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the
"GLBA"). These operational restrictions and the impact of the changes effected
by the GLBA are discussed below. The Company is permitted



to own Bank of New Castle and MSDW Bank without registering as a bank holding
company because neither of these institutions is considered to be a "bank"
under the BHCA.

  Pursuant to the CEBA amendments to the BHCA, Greenwood Trust is currently
prohibited from engaging in new activities in which it was not engaged as of
March 5, 1987. In addition, Greenwood Trust is also restricted with respect to
its ability to cross-market its products with those of its affiliates. On
March 11, 2000, the date on which the GLBA modifications to the BHCA will
become effective, both of these restrictions will be rescinded. However, even
after that date, Greenwood Trust will need to refrain from engaging either in
commercial lending or taking demand deposits (but not both), in order for the
Company to maintain its non-bank holding company status.

  Federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations extensively
regulate the relationships among cardholders and credit card issuers. Under
federal law, each of the Domestic Banks may charge interest at the rate
allowed by the law of the state in which it is located and export such
interest rate to all other states. The states where the Domestic Banks are
domiciled do not limit the amount of interest that may be charged on loans of
the types offered by the Domestic Banks. As a result, each of the Domestic
Banks is permitted to export interest rates pursuant to federal law. The
application of federal and state bankruptcy and debtor relief laws affect the
Company to the extent such laws result in any loans being charged off as
uncollectible.

  Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
("FDICIA"), the federal bank regulatory agencies are required to take "prompt
corrective action" in respect of banks that do not meet minimum capital
requirements, and certain restrictions are imposed upon banks that meet
certain capital requirements but are not "well capitalized" for purposes of
FDICIA. A bank that is not well capitalized, as defined for purposes of
FDICIA, is, among other consequences, generally prohibited from accepting
brokered deposits and offering interest rates on any deposits significantly
higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally
(depending upon where the deposits are solicited). Greenwood Trust and MSDW
Bank currently use brokered deposits as a funding source. If either of these
Domestic Banks were not able to do so, its funding costs would likely
increase.

  Certain acquisitions of the Company's common stock may be subject to
regulatory approval and notice under federal and state banking law. In
addition, Greenwood Trust would no longer qualify for grandfather rights under
CEBA, as amended by the GLBA, if direct or indirect control of Greenwood Trust
were transferred to an unaffiliated third party. In that event, the third
party would have to operate in a manner permissible for a bank holding company
under the BHCA.

  MSDW Bank Limited, the Company's recently chartered bank in the United
Kingdom, is governed primarily by the United Kingdom's Banking Act 1987. MSDW
Bank Limited is also subject to other regulation in the United Kingdom,
including regulation related to capital adequacy, consumer protection and
deposit protection. The activities of MSDW Bank Limited are supervised by the
Financial Services Authority, which conducts periodic examinations of MSDW
Bank Limited's operations and records. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Card
Services Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, operates the day-
to-day credit card business of MSDW Bank Limited.

Item 2. Properties*

  The Company's executive offices are located at 1585 Broadway, New York, New
York, where the Company occupies approximately 958,000 square feet as its New
York headquarters. The Company also occupies approximately 368,000 square feet
at 750 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York. The Company owns both the 1585
Broadway and 750 Seventh Avenue buildings. The Company also owns a 600,000
square foot building in Riverwoods, Illinois that houses Credit Services'
executive offices and an adjacent undeveloped 44 acre parcel.
- --------
*  The indicated total aggregate square footage leased by the Company does not
   include space occupied by the Company's securities branch offices.



  In 1999, construction began on a 1,100,000 square foot office tower at 745
Seventh Avenue, New York, New York, which will be owned by the Company. The
Company leases the land under the building pursuant to a 99-year ground lease.
The Company intends to occupy the building upon project completion, which is
anticipated in 2002.

  The Company leases 864,000 square feet at Two World Trade Center, New York,
New York, under a lease expiring on May 31, 2006 and also occupies space
aggregating approximately 1,069,000 square feet at various other locations in
New York City under leases expiring between 2000 and 2013. In addition, the
Company leases space aggregating approximately 417,000 square feet in
Brooklyn, New York under a lease expiring in 2013.

  The Company's London headquarters are located at 25 Cabot Square, Canary
Wharf, and occupy approximately 641,000 square feet (inclusive of common
areas) of a building constructed by the Company. The Company owns the ground
lease obligation and the freehold interest in the land and the building. The
Company also leases approximately 350,000 square feet at 20 Cabot Square,
Canary Wharf, under a lease arrangement expiring in 2020.

  The Company's Tokyo headquarters are located in Sapporo's Yebisu Garden
Place, Ebisu, Shibuya-ku, where the Company occupies approximately 173,000
square feet of office space under a lease arrangement expiring in 2000, but
renewable at the Company's option in two-year increments.

  The Company's subsidiaries have offices, operations and processing centers
and warehouse facilities located throughout the United States and certain
subsidiaries maintain offices and other facilities in international locations.
The Company's properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for
durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where
these properties are located. Facilities owned or occupied by the Company and
its subsidiaries are believed to be adequate for the purposes for which they
are currently used and are well maintained.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

  The Company is involved in the following litigation matters:

  I. Term Trust Class Actions. A putative class action, Thomas D. Keeley, et
al. v. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. et al. (the "Keeley Action") was commenced in
the California Superior Court, Orange County, on October 27, 1994 and later
consolidated with three similar class actions. Defendants are the Company,
DWR, Dean Witter Distributors, Dean Witter InterCapital Inc., Dean Witter
Services Company Inc., TCW Management Co., Trust Company of the West, TCW
Asset Management Co., Inc., TCW Funds Management, Inc. and eight individuals,
including two DWR employees. Plaintiffs allege breach of fiduciary duty,
unjust enrichment, fraud, deceit and violation of the California Corporation
Code in the marketing and selling of the TCW/DW Term Trusts 2000, 2002 and
2003. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.
Defendants filed an answer to the first amended class complaint denying all
wrongdoing on December 6, 1995, and motions for judgment on the pleadings on
March 13, 1997. In the Keeley Action, defendants' motions for judgment on the
pleadings were denied on June 23, 1997. On June 1, 1998, the plaintiff's
motion to certify the class was granted as to a California statewide class and
denied as to a nationwide class. On October 13, 1998, three separate state
court actions were filed in Florida, New York and New Jersey. The Florida
action was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of
Florida on November 10, 1998. Motions to dismiss were filed by the defendants
in the Florida action on August 30, 1999, in the New Jersey action on July 26,
1999, and in the New York action on September 10, 1999. Defendants' motion to
dismiss the Florida action was denied January 28, 2000 and defendants filed an
answer denying all allegations of wrongdoing on February 22, 2000. Defendants'
motion to dismiss the New Jersey action was granted on February 2, 2000.

  II. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter North American Government Income Trust
Litigation. Several purported class action lawsuits, which have been
consolidated, were instituted on January 11, 1995 in the U.S. District Court
for the Southern District of New York against the Morgan Stanley Dean Witter
North American



Government Income Trust (formerly TCW/DW North American Government Income
Trust) (the "Trust"), DWR, some of the Trust's trustees and officers, its
underwriter and distributor, the Trust's sub-adviser, the Trust's former
manager and other defendants, by certain shareholders of the Trust. The
consolidated amended complaint asserts claims under the Securities Act of 1933
(the "Securities Act") and generally alleges that the defendants made
inadequate and misleading disclosures in the prospectuses for the Trust, in
particular as such disclosures related to the nature and risks of the Trust's
investments in mortgage-backed securities and Mexican securities. Plaintiffs
also challenge certain fees paid by the Trust as excessive. Damages are sought
in an unspecified amount. Defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated amended
complaint. Although on May 8, 1996 the motions to dismiss were denied, upon
reconsideration on August 28, 1996 the court dismissed several of plaintiffs'
claims and clarified its earlier opinion denying defendants' motion to
dismiss. In addition, on August 28, 1996, the court granted plaintiffs' motion
for class certification. On December 4, 1996, in light of a new decision by
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, defendants filed a new
motion for reconsideration of the court's decision denying the motion to
dismiss, which was denied on November 20, 1997. On January 19, 2000, the court
gave preliminary approval of a stipulation of settlement disposing of the
litigation and authorized that notice be sent to class members regarding the
fairness hearing scheduled for April 2000.

  III. In re Merrill Lynch, et al. Securities Litigation. On January 19, 1995,
a putative class action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District
of New Jersey on behalf of all persons who placed market orders to purchase or
sell securities listed on the National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") with DWR between November 4, 1992 and
November 4, 1994. The complaint, consolidated with another action against
other brokerage firms, seeks unspecified damages and alleges that DWR failed
to provide best execution of customer market orders for NASDAQ securities. The
complaint asserts claims for violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 10b-5 promulgated
thereunder and state law claims for breach of fiduciary duty and unjust
enrichment. On December 15, 1995, the district court granted summary judgment
in favor of DWR and, on June 19, 1997, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed. On January 30, 1998, the full Court
of Appeals, sitting en banc, reversed and remanded the action to the district
court for further proceedings. On April 30, 1998, a petition for a writ of
certiorari to the U.S. Supreme Court was filed by the defendants. On June 12,
1998, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file an amended complaint to
extend the end date for the class period from November 4, 1994 to August 28,
1996 and to name new class representatives. On July 21, 1998, the Magistrate
granted the plaintiffs' motion to file an amended complaint. Defendants have
appealed that ruling to the district court judge. On October 5, 1998, the U.S.
Supreme Court denied the petition for certiorari. On November 8, 1999, the
district court denied plaintiffs' motion for class certification.

  IV. Penalty Bid Litigation. On or about August 21, 1998, a purported class
action complaint, Friedman, et al. v. Salomon Smith Barney, et al., was filed
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against the
Company and nine other underwriters of securities. An amended complaint dated
February 15, 1999, was filed against the Company and sixteen other
underwriters of securities. The amended plaintiff class purports to consist of
all retail brokerage customers who purchased securities in public offerings
from defendants and their alleged co-conspirators at artificially inflated
prices. The amended complaint alleges that defendants and their co-
conspirators engaged in anti-competitive activity with respect to the
distribution of securities in public offerings by agreeing (i) to discourage
retail customers from "flipping" or selling shares purchased in public
offerings prior to the expiration of a purported "retail restricted period" (a
period alleged to have been arbitrarily set by the syndicate manager during
which restraints on retail accounts are imposed), and/or (ii) to penalize
retail customers who "flipped," and/or (iii) otherwise to prevent retail
customers from "flipping." The amended complaint also alleges that similar
restraints were not imposed on institutional purchasers of shares in public
offerings. The amended complaint alleges violations of Section 1 of the
Sherman Act and breach of fiduciary duty, and seeks compensatory, treble and
punitive damages in unspecified amounts, injunctive relief, costs and
expenses, including attorneys', accountants' and experts' fees. On May 7,
1999, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint.

  Another purported class action, captioned Myers v. Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc.
et al., was filed on or about August 17, 1998 in California Superior Court,
San Francisco County, against Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., Paine



Webber Group Incorporated, the Company, Travelers Group Inc., Legg Mason Inc.,
H.J. Meyers & Co., Inc. and The Bear Stearns Companies Inc. The complaint
alleges that defendants sold the stock of public companies to investors in
public offerings without disclosing the existence of restrictions on
"flipping" and serious conflicts of interest with investors resulting from
financial and other penalties imposed on brokers and clients for "flipping."
The complaint also alleges that similar restrictions were not imposed on
larger institutional purchasers of stock in those offerings. The complaint
asserts claims for unfair competition and false advertising under various
sections of the California Business and Professions Code (the "Business
Code"), negligent misrepresentations under the California Civil Code and
unfair, fraudulent and unlawful business practices under the Business Code.
The complaint seeks injunctive relief and an award of costs and expenses,
including attorneys' and experts' fees. On September 15, 1998, the action was
removed to the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. On
October 30, 1998, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. On March
25, 1999, the court held a hearing on defendants' motion to dismiss the
complaint and plaintiffs' motion to remand the action. On August 23, 1999, the
court denied plaintiffs' motion to remand the action and granted a motion
filed by certain defendants to dismiss the complaint on the grounds of
preemption. On September 23, 1999, plaintiffs appealed the decision to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

  V. IPO Fee Litigation. On or about November 3, 1998, a purported class
action complaint, Gillet v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., et al., was filed in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York against the Company
and 26 other underwriters of initial public offering ("IPO") securities. On
November 23, 1998 and December 2, 1998, two other substantially similar class
action complaints, captioned Prager v. Goldman, Sachs & Co. et al. and Holzman
v. Goldman, Sachs & Co. et al. were filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York against the same underwriter defendants. On
February 11, 1999, Gillet v. Goldman, Sachs & Co., et al., Prager v. Goldman,
Sachs & Co. et al. and Holzman v. Goldman, Sachs & Co. et al. were
consolidated and, on March 15, 1999, a consolidated amended complaint,
captioned In re Public Offering Fee Antitrust Litigation, was filed against
the Company and 24 other underwriters. The consolidated amended complaint
alleges that defendants conspired to fix the "fee" paid by purported class
members to buy and sell IPO securities of U.S. companies by invariably setting
the underwriters' spread at 7%, particularly in issuances of $20 to $80
million, in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The consolidated
amended complaint seeks treble damages and injunctive relief, as well as
costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees. On April 29, 1999, defendants
filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint.

  VI. Nenni, et al. v. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. In December 1998, a putative
class action complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District
of Massachusetts against DWR, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Distributors Inc. and
the Company. The complaint, filed on behalf of all purchasers of certain of
the Company's mutual funds subject to a contingent deferred sales charge (the
"Mutual Funds"), alleges violations of Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the
Securities Act, Sections 10(b) and 20 of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
promulgated thereunder, in that the Mutual Funds' prospectuses and
registration statements allegedly omitted certain disclosures concerning the
transferability of the Mutual Funds to brokerage accounts outside of DWR. The
complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages, declaratory and
injunctive relief, interest and costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
On February 24, 1999, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the action. On
April 30, 1999, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. On July 9, 1999,
defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint, and on September
29, 1999, the court granted defendants' motion to dismiss the amended
complaint. On October 28, 1999, the plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.

  VII. Other. In addition to the matters described above, the Company,
including MS&Co. and DWR, has been named from time to time as a defendant in
various legal actions, including arbitrations, arising in connection with its
activities as a global diversified financial services institution, certain of
which include large claims for punitive damages. The Company, including MS&Co.
and DWR, is also involved, from time to time, in investigations and
proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies. Some of these legal
actions, investigations and proceedings may result in adverse judgments,
penalties or fines.




  In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such
matters, particularly in cases such as some of those described above in which
substantial damages are sought, the Company cannot state what the eventual
outcome of pending matters will be. The Company is contesting the allegations
made in each pending matter and believes, based on current knowledge and after
consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the
Company, but may be material to the Company's operating results for any
particular period, depending on the level of the Company's income for such
period.

                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  The following table sets forth certain information concerning executive
officers of the Company as of February 25, 2000. All of the executive officers
are members of the Company's Management Committee.



- --------
*  Mr. Kempf became the Company's Chief Legal Officer at the beginning of
   fiscal year 2000. Christine A. Edwards, the Company's former Chief Legal
   Officer, stepped down effective June 10, 1999. Pursuant to a September 1,
   1999 agreement, the Company paid Mrs. Edwards an amount equal to the sum of
   her base salary through January 31, 2000, her above-base compensation for
   fiscal 1998 and the amount she would have been entitled to under the
   Company's Key Executive Employment Plan. Mrs. Edwards was a "full career"
   employee, her equity compensation awards were vested, and the forfeiture
   and transfer restrictions on her equity awards were removed. In addition,
   she received certain fringe benefits (including health care coverage and
   reimbursement of certain expenses).





Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

  There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fiscal quarter ended November 30, 1999.

                                    PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

  Information relating to the principal market in which the Registrant's
Common Stock is traded, the high and low sales prices per share for each full
quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal periods, the approximate
number of holders of record of Common Stock and the frequency and amount of
any cash dividends declared for the two most recent fiscal periods is set
forth under the caption "Quarterly Results" on page 90 of the Registrant's
1999 Annual Report to Shareholders and such information is incorporated by
reference herein.



  To enhance its ongoing stock repurchase program, during the quarter ended
November 30, 1999, the Company sold European-style put options on an aggregate
of 1,000,000 shares of its Common Stock. These put options expired in February
2000. They entitled the holder to sell Common Stock to the Company at prices
ranging from $48.51 to $50.29 per share. The sale of these put options, which
was made as private placement to a third party, generated proceeds to the
Company of approximately $2.5 million.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

  Selected Financial Data for the Registrant and its subsidiaries for each of
the last five fiscal years is set forth under the same caption on page 4 of
the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is incorporated by
reference herein and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Notes thereto contained on pages 55 to 90 of such
Annual Report.

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations is set forth under the same caption on pages 22 to 47 of the 1999
Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is incorporated by reference
herein and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the Notes thereto contained on pages 55 to 90 of such Annual
Report.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

  The information required by this item is contained on pages 47 through 53 of
the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption "Risk Management" and
is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

  The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Registrant and its
subsidiaries, together with the Notes thereto and Independent Auditors' Report
thereon, are contained in the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders on pages 54
to 90, and such information is incorporated by reference herein, including the
information appearing under the caption "Quarterly Results" on page 90 of such
Annual Report.

  The Combined Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 1999 and
1998 of the Morgan Stanley U.K. Group Profit Sharing Scheme and Plan, together
with the Notes thereon and the Report of Independent Chartered Accountants,
appear as Exhibit 99.2.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

  None.

                                   PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

  Information relating to Directors and Nominees of the Registrant is set
forth under the caption "Election of Directors" on pages 4 to 6 of the Proxy
Statement of the Registrant for its 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is
incorporated by reference herein. Also incorporated by reference herein is the
information under the heading "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" that appears on page 19 of the Proxy Statement.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

  Information relating to executive compensation is set forth under the
captions "Director Compensation" on page 7 and "Compensation of Executive
Officers" (excluding the information under the subheadings "Report of the
Compensation Committees on Executive Compensation" and "Stock Performance
Graph") on pages 10 to 20 of the Proxy Statement of the Registrant for its
2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and such information is incorporated by
reference herein.



Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

  Information relating to security ownership of management and certain
beneficial owners is set forth under the captions "Stock Ownership of
Management" and "Principal Stockholders" on pages 8 and 9, respectively, of
the Proxy Statement of the Registrant for its 2000 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders and such information is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

  Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions is set
forth under the caption "Certain Transactions" on pages 19 and 20 of the Proxy
Statement of the Registrant for its 2000 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and
such information is incorporated by reference herein.

                                    PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)Documents filed as part of this Report:

1. Financial Statements

  The financial statements required to be filed hereunder are listed on page
S-1 hereof.

2. Financial Statement Schedules

  The financial statement schedules required to be filed hereunder are listed
on page S-1 hereof.

3. Exhibits

  An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report beginning on page E-1
hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.

(b) A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 22, 1999, was filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the announcement of
    the Company's third fiscal quarter financial results.

  A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 20, 1999, was filed with the
  Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the Company's launch
  of ichoice.



                                  SIGNATURES

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 25,
2000.

                                          Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
                                           (Registrant)

                                              By /s/ Philip J. Purcell
                                          _____________________________________
                                                    Philip J. Purcell
                                             Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                                    Executive Officer

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

  We, the undersigned directors and executive officers of Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co., hereby severally constitute Donald G. Kempf, Jr., Robert G.
Scott and Ronald T. Carman, and each of them singly, our true and lawful
attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our
names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said
attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K.

  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 25th day of February, 2000.










                        Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.

                         Index to Financial Statements
                       and Financial Statement Schedules
                        Items (14)(a)(1) and (14)(a)(2)



                                      S-1



                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                        MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)

                  Condensed Statements of Financial Condition
                    (dollars in millions, except share data)


- --------
(1) Amounts have been retroactively adjusted to give effect for a two-for-one
    common stock split, effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend, which
    became effective on January 26, 2000.

                  See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

                                      S-2


                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                        MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)

            Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income
                             (dollars in millions)




                  See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

                                      S-3


                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                        MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)

                       Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
                             (dollars in millions)



                  See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

                                      S-4


                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)

                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Introduction and Basis of Presentation

 Basis of Financial Information

  The accompanying condensed financial statements (the "Parent Company
Financial Statements") give retroactive effect to the May 1997 merger of
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") with and into Dean Witter,
Discover & Co. ("Dean Witter Discover"), which was accounted for as a pooling
of interests. The pooling of interests method of accounting requires the
restatement of all periods presented as if Dean Witter Discover and Morgan
Stanley had always been combined.

  The Parent Company Financial Statements, including the notes thereto, should
be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (the "Company") and the notes thereto found on pages
55 to 90 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders which is incorporated
by reference in this Form 10-K.

  Prior to the consummation of the merger, Dean Witter Discover's year ended
on December 31 and Morgan Stanley's fiscal year ended on November 30.
Subsequent to the merger, the Company adopted a fiscal year-end of November
30. The Company's results for the 12 months ended November 30, 1999 ("fiscal
1999"), November 30, 1998 ("fiscal 1998") and November 30, 1997 ("fiscal
1997") reflect the change in fiscal year-end. Fiscal 1997 includes the results
of Dean Witter Discover that were restated to conform with the new fiscal
year-end date.

 Employee Stock Ownership Plan

  The Company has a $140 million leveraged employee stock ownership plan,
funded through an independently managed trust. The Employee Stock Ownership
Plan ("ESOP") was established to broaden internal ownership of the Company and
to provide benefits to its employees in a cost-effective manner. Each of the
3,493,477 ESOP preferred shares outstanding at November 30, 1999 is held by
the ESOP trust, is convertible into 6.6 shares of the Company's common stock
and is entitled to annual dividends of $2.78 per preferred share.

  In January 2000, all shares of the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock were
converted into common shares of the Company.

 Stock Split

  On December 20, 1999, the Company declared a two-for-one common stock split,
effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend, payable to shareholders of
record on January 12, 2000 and distributable on January 26, 2000. All share
and shareholders' equity data have been retroactively restated to reflect this
split.

2. Transactions with Subsidiaries

  The Company has transactions with its subsidiaries determined on an agreed-
upon basis and has guaranteed certain unsecured lines of credit and
contractual obligations of certain of its subsidiaries.

  The Company received cash dividends from its consolidated subsidiaries
totaling $3,566 million, $1,858 million and $1,088 million in fiscal 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

                                      S-5


                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.:

  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. and subsidiaries as of fiscal years ended November 30, 1999 and
1998, and for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended November 30,
1999, and have issued our report thereon dated January 21, 2000; such
consolidated financial statements and report are included in your 1999 Annual
Report to Shareholders and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits
also included Schedule I listed in the Index to Financial Statements and
Financial Statement Schedules. These financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, based on our audits, the
condensed financial statement schedules for Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
(Parent Company Only), when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth herein.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York
January 21, 2000

                                      S-6


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    EXHIBITS

                                       TO

                                   FORM 10-K

                  For the fiscal year ended November 30, 1999
                          Commission File No. 1-11758

                        Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

  Certain of the following exhibits, as indicated parenthetically, were
previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by the
Registrant or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, or to reports or registration statements filed by the Registrant or
its predecessor companies under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "Exchange Act"), respectively, and are hereby incorporated by
reference to such statements or reports. The Exchange Act file number of the
Company is 1-11758. Prior to the Merger, the Exchange Act file number of
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley") was 1-9085. In addition, certain
of the following exhibits, as indicated parenthetically, were previously filed
as exhibits to a Schedule 13D, as amended (the "Schedule 13D"), filed by
certain senior officers of the Company under the Exchange Act and are hereby
incorporated by reference.



                                      E-1




                                      E-2




                                      E-3




                                      E-4



- --------
* Filed herewith.
+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
 filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c).


                                      E-5






[LOGO] Printed on Recycled Paper


