
10-K405
d10k405.txt
FORM 10-K405



================================================================================
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K
               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2001

                        Commission File Number 1-11758

                       Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 761-4000
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X] NO [_]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K [X].

Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant at January 4, 2002 was approximately $64,931,883,322. This
calculation does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for
any other purposes.

Number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's common stock, $.01 par value,
as of January 28, 2002: 1,101,617,649.

Documents Incorporated By Reference: Portions of the Registrant's definitive
proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be held on March 19,
2002 are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Part III,
Items 10, 11, 12 and 13.
================================================================================



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
                          Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2001
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                               


                                    *  *  *

                          Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements in this Report, including (without limitation) those under
"Legal Proceedings" in Part I, Item 3, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 ("MD&A"), and
"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in Part II, Item
7A, may constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
are not historical facts and represent only our beliefs regarding future
events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our
control. The risks and uncertainties involved in our businesses could affect
the matters referred to in such statements, including (without limitation) the
effect of economic and market conditions, the level and volatility of interest
rates and currency values and equity and commodity prices, the actions of
current and potential competitors, the impact of current, pending or future
legislation and regulation in the U.S. and throughout the world, the potential
effects of technological changes and other risks and uncertainties detailed
under "Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations" in MD&A and in
"Competition and Regulation" under each of "Securities," "Investment
Management" and "Credit Services" in Part I, Item 1. Accordingly, you are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which
speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to
update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.



                                    Part I

Item 1.  Business.

Overview.  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. ("Morgan Stanley"*) is a global
financial services firm that maintains leading market positions in each of its
three business segments--Securities, Investment Management and Credit Services.

Morgan Stanley's securities business segment ("Securities") includes:

  .  Investment banking, including securities underwriting and distribution;
     financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions,
     restructurings, real estate and project finance; and financing and
     investing.

  .  Sales, trading, financing and market-making activities to facilitate
     client orders and on a proprietary basis, in such products as equity
     securities and related products; and fixed income securities and related
     products, including foreign exchange and commodities.

  .  Principal investing, including private equity activities.

  .  Securities services to meet individual investor needs, including
     full-service brokerage services for investors seeking financial advice;
     online execution capabilities for self-directed investors desiring to
     invest with limited professional assistance; and financial advisory
     services for high net worth clients.

  .  Other businesses, including aircraft financing activities.

Morgan Stanley's investment management business segment ("Investment
Management") includes:

  .  Global asset management products and services for individual and
     institutional investors, through three principal distribution channels:
     Morgan Stanley's financial advisors and investment representatives; a
     non-proprietary channel consisting of third-party broker-dealers, banks,
     financial planners and other intermediaries; and Morgan Stanley's
     institutional channel.

Morgan Stanley's credit services business segment ("Credit Services") includes:

  .  Discover Financial Services ("DFS"), which offers the Discover(R) Classic
     Card, the Discover Gold Card, the Discover Platinum Card, the Morgan
     Stanley Card/SM/ and other proprietary general purpose credit cards as
     well as related consumer finance products and services.

  .  Discover Business Services, a proprietary network of merchant and cash
     access locations in the U.S.

Morgan Stanley combines global strength in investment banking and institutional
sales and trading with strength in providing full-service brokerage services,
global asset management services and, primarily through its Discover Card
brand, quality consumer credit products. Morgan Stanley provides these products
and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers,
including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals.

At November 30, 2001, Morgan Stanley had the second largest financial advisor
sales organization in the U.S. and had 13,690 professional financial advisors
and approximately 550 securities branch offices globally. Morgan Stanley also
had one of the largest global asset management operations of any full-service
securities firm, with total assets under management or supervision of $459
billion. Based on its approximately 45.7 million general purpose credit card
accounts as of November 30, 2001, Morgan Stanley was one of the largest credit
card issuers in the U.S., with the largest proprietary merchant and cash access
network. Financial information concerning

- --------
*Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "Morgan Stanley", the
 "Company", "we" and "our" mean Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and its
 consolidated subsidiaries.



Morgan Stanley for each of the fiscal years ended November 30, 2001, November
30, 2000 and November 30, 1999 is included in the consolidated financial
statements and the notes thereto in "Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data" in Part II, Item 8.

Morgan Stanley conducts its business from its headquarters in New York City,
its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices
in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At November 30,
2001, Morgan Stanley had 61,319 employees worldwide, with 51,728 employees in
the U.S. and 9,591 employees internationally. Morgan Stanley is a combination
of Dean Witter, Discover & Co. ("Dean Witter Discover") and Morgan Stanley
Group Inc. ("Morgan Stanley Group") and was formed pursuant to a merger of
equals effected on May 31, 1997 (the "Merger"). Morgan Stanley was originally
incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its
predecessor companies date back to 1924.

Technology and E-Commerce.  Morgan Stanley trades securities through several
electronic trading systems and has invested in several electronic trading
systems and related businesses and technologies. Morgan Stanley's web-based
tools provide its clients with numerous online applications, including access
to portfolio information and Morgan Stanley's proprietary research, and the
ability to engage in electronic transactions across a growing number of
platforms. For example, Client Link provides institutional clients with a
private, secure Internet platform that delivers browser-based information,
products and services across many of Morgan Stanley's business units; Client
Serv(R) provides individual investors online trading capabilities, access to
real-time account activity, business news and research; and Discovercard.com
enables cardmembers to access financial management services online and generate
single-use card numbers for enhanced security for online purchases.

                                  Securities

Morgan Stanley provides worldwide financial advisory and capital-raising
services to a diverse group of domestic and international corporate and other
institutional clients, primarily through Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
("MS&Co."), Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited, Morgan Stanley Japan
Limited and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Asia Limited. These subsidiaries also
conduct sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and
provide related financing services, on behalf of institutional investors and on
a proprietary basis. Morgan Stanley also conducts various activities broadly
described as principal investing. In addition, Morgan Stanley provides
individual investors with a range of securities and savings products and
services, primarily through Morgan Stanley DW Inc. ("MSDWI") (formerly Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc.).

Investment Banking.

Underwriting. Morgan Stanley manages and participates in public offerings and
private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. Morgan
Stanley is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other
equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American
Depositary Receipts ("ADRs"). Morgan Stanley is also a leading underwriter of
fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, high-yield securities
(debt issued by non-investment grade issuers), mortgage-related and other
asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other
short-term securities.

Financial Advisory Services. Morgan Stanley provides domestic and international
corporate and other institutional clients with advisory services on key
strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate
defense strategies, joint ventures, privatizations, spin-offs, restructurings,
proxy and consent solicitations, tender offers, exchange offers and leveraged
buyouts. Morgan Stanley also provides advice concerning recapitalizations,
rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure,
financial risk management strategies and long-range financial planning. Morgan
Stanley furnishes advice and services regarding project financings, including
infrastructure, electric power and natural resource projects. In addition,
Morgan Stanley provides advisory services in connection with the purchase,
sale, leasing and financing of real estate.




Financing and Investing. Morgan Stanley provides financing or financing
commitments, on a selective basis, to companies in the form of senior or
subordinated debt, including bridge financing. The borrowers may be rated
investment grade or non-investment grade. These financing and lending
activities are conducted through certain subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley
Bank. Morgan Stanley also engages in a variety of principal investing
activities. See "Principal Investing" below.

Sales, Trading, Financing and Market-Making Activities.*

Equity Securities and Related Products. Morgan Stanley's equity sales, trading
and market-making activities cover domestic and foreign equity and
equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, restricted/control
stock, convertible securities, preferred securities and exchange traded funds
and warrants, equity index products, equity swaps, options and other structured
products. Morgan Stanley issues equity-linked products to institutional and
individual investors, including Performance Equity-linked Redemption
Quarterly-pay Securities ("PERQS(R)"), Stock Participation Accreting
Redemption Quarterly-pay Securities ("SPARQS/SM/") and Basket Opportunity
eXchangeablE Securities ("BOXES/SM/"). Morgan Stanley also advises clients and
executes transactions globally in connection with index arbitrage, equity
repurchase strategies, program trading and block trades. Morgan Stanley engages
in proprietary trading and arbitrage activities in equity securities and
equity-related products. Morgan Stanley conducts its equity sales, trading and
market-making activities on stock exchanges and in over-the-counter ("OTC")
markets. Morgan Stanley is a member of the major stock exchanges around the
world, including the New York, London, Frankfurt, Tokyo and Hong Kong stock
exchanges.

Morgan Stanley also provides equity financing services, including prime
brokerage, which offers consolidated clearance and settlement of securities
trades, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services. In addition,
Morgan Stanley acts as principal and agent in stock borrowing and stock loan
transactions in support of its domestic and international trading and
brokerage, investment management and clearing activities and as an intermediary
between broker-dealers.

Fixed Income Securities and Related Products.  Morgan Stanley trades and makes
markets in domestic and international fixed income securities and related
products, including preferred stock, investment grade corporate debt,
high-yield securities, senior loans, U.S. and non-U.S. government securities,
municipal securities, and commercial paper, money market and other short-term
securities. Morgan Stanley also makes markets in, and acts as principal with
respect to, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate
loan products. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer of U.S. government securities
and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and
other debt securities. In Europe, Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer of
government securities in Austria, Belgium, France, Greece, Italy, the
Netherlands, Spain and the U.K. Morgan Stanley is also a member of the
syndicates that underwrite German and Japanese government bonds. Morgan Stanley
is a dealer in interest rate and currency swaps and other related derivative
products, credit derivatives (including credit default swaps), OTC options on
U.S. and non-U.S. government bonds and mortgage-backed forward agreements,
options and swaps. Through its triple-A rated subsidiary, Morgan Stanley
Derivative Products Inc., Morgan Stanley also enters into swaps and related
derivative transactions with counterparties seeking a triple-A rated
counterparty.

Morgan Stanley advises institutional accounts and other clients globally on
investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt
repurchases. Morgan Stanley also structures debt securities and derivatives
with risk/return factors designed to suit investor objectives, including using
repackaged asset vehicles through which investors can restructure asset
portfolios to provide liquidity or recharacterize risk profiles. Morgan Stanley
borrows and lends fixed income securities and acts as an intermediary between
borrowers and lenders of short-term funds utilizing repurchase and reverse
repurchase agreements. Morgan Stanley also provides financing to customers for
commercial, residential and real estate loan products.
- --------
*See also "Risk Management" in Part II, Item 7A for a description of Morgan
 Stanley's trading risk management structure, policies and procedures. For a
 detailed discussion of Morgan Stanley's use of derivatives, see "Derivative
 Financial Instruments" in Part II, Item 7 and Notes 7 and 10 in "Notes to
 Consolidated Financial Statements" in Part II, Item 8.




Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in foreign currencies. The majority of Morgan
Stanley's foreign exchange business relates to major foreign currencies such as
yen, euro, sterling, Swiss francs and Canadian dollars. Morgan Stanley actively
trades on a principal basis with clients and for its own account in the spot,
forward and currency option markets and also takes proprietary positions in
currencies. Morgan Stanley is a leading participant in currency futures trading
at the International Monetary Market division of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange.

Morgan Stanley trades as principal and maintains proprietary trading positions
in the spot, forward and futures markets in several commodities, including
precious metals, base metals, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric
power and related energy products. Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in
exchange-traded and OTC options and swaps on commodities, such as metals, crude
oil, oil products, natural gas and electricity, and offers clients various
hedging programs relating to production, consumption and reserve/inventory
management. Morgan Stanley trades many of these products through the
IntercontinentalExchange, Inc., an electronic trading system in which Morgan
Stanley maintains an interest. Morgan Stanley is an electricity power marketer
in the U.S. and owns equity interests in three exempt wholesale generators (as
defined in the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935) from which Morgan
Stanley (solely or acting with a joint venture partner) is the exclusive
purchaser of electric power.

MSCI.  Morgan Stanley's majority-owned subsidiary, Morgan Stanley Capital
International Inc. ("MSCI"), markets and distributes over 30,000 country,
industry and regional equity and fixed income benchmark indices (including the
MSCI World, EAFE(R) and Emerging Market Free Indices) covering 51 countries,
and has a 32-year historical database that includes fundamental and valuation
data on thousands of securities in developed and emerging market countries.
Investment professionals around the world use MSCI data for many purposes,
including performance measurement.

Principal Investing.

Morgan Stanley's principal investing activities include making commitments to
purchase, and making negotiated investments in, equity and debt securities,
either as principal or for the accounts of private equity funds that Morgan
Stanley manages. These activities may be in connection with merger,
acquisition, restructuring, private investment and leveraged capital
transactions and may include real estate, venture capital and strategic
investments.

Morgan Stanley generally acts as general partner of the private equity funds
through which it conducts certain of its principal investing activities and
typically contributes a minority of the capital of such funds. Morgan Stanley
conducts a substantial portion of its private equity business through two
groups of investment funds, Morgan Stanley Capital Partners and Morgan Stanley
Venture Partners, making private equity and venture capital investments in a
range of industries throughout the world. Morgan Stanley conducts its real
estate principal investing business primarily through the Morgan Stanley Real
Estate Funds and Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations Funds, entities
that invest in U.S. and international real estate assets and companies. Morgan
Stanley also makes equity and equity-related investments that arise out of its
worldwide investment banking activities through Princes Gate Investors, a fund
that invests in special situation and venture capital opportunities. From time
to time, Morgan Stanley expects to sponsor additional funds and commit to
invest in such funds.

Morgan Stanley also invests for its own account. These investments may, among
other things, be in connection with the investments made by the private equity
funds described above or in connection with Morgan Stanley's investment banking
and sales and trading activities. Such investments may include purchases of
equity or debt securities of companies that may have strategic value for Morgan
Stanley, such as alternative trading systems, electronic trading systems and
other strategic businesses and technologies.




Individual Investor Group.

The Individual Investor Group provides its clients with comprehensive financial
planning and investment advisory services through a flexible platform designed
to accommodate individual investment goals and risk profiles. The Individual
Investor Group offers numerous securities and investment products supported by
Morgan Stanley's investment banking, research, investment management, execution
and operational resources. Morgan Stanley provided securities and investment
services to approximately 5.6 million client accounts in the U.S. and had
client assets of $595 billion at November 30, 2001.

Morgan Stanley's Choice/SM/ service platform for individual investors combines
the products and services offered by the Individual Investor Group with the
technological capabilities of online execution. Morgan Stanley provides its
clients the flexibility to select the financial service relationship that best
suits their needs, including a traditional full-service brokerage relationship
through a financial advisor, self-directed investing online or some combination
of both. Morgan Stanley also provides financial advisory and wealth management
services for high net worth clients. Morgan Stanley provides various pricing
options, including fee-based pricing.

Investor Advisory Services.  Morgan Stanley provides execution, trading and
research services to its individual clients for listed equity securities, OTC
equity securities, options and ADRs. Morgan Stanley also provides execution,
trading and research services to individual clients for fixed income
securities, including U.S. government obligations, mortgage and other
asset-backed securities, corporate bonds, preferred stocks, municipal
securities and certificates of deposit. Morgan Stanley's financial advisors
work together with the institutional fixed income platform to provide mid-sized
institutions with access to Morgan Stanley's products and research capabilities.

Morgan Stanley provides its clients with several investment and credit products
and services, including mutual funds, unit investment trusts ("UITs"),
insurance products, financial planning, retirement planning, personal trust and
estate planning, tax planning, credit management and account services. Morgan
Stanley's Active Assets Account(R) program permits clients to consolidate their
financial assets into a single account, invest in a variety of investment
products and automatically invest funds daily in a variety of money market
options or in a designated account at Morgan Stanley Bank insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The program also offers a debit
card and a checking account. BusinesScape/SM/, a related program, offers
qualified business clients similar services and features, including enhanced
check writing privileges and a commercial line of credit.

Morgan Stanley offers clients investment choices for individual retirement
planning and provides individual annuities and complete defined contribution
plan services for businesses, including 401(k) plans. Morgan Stanley's
investment consulting services business assists clients in analyzing their
investment objectives and in selecting investment advisory services that
affiliated and unaffiliated investment advisers offer. Through its wholly-owned
insurance agency subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley acts as a national general agency
for leading insurance carriers to meet the insurance and annuity needs of
individual investors. Morgan Stanley also offers trust and fiduciary services
to individual and corporate clients, including trustee services for personal
trusts and tax-qualified retirement plans.

Clients can establish a self-directed relationship through Morgan Stanley's
online capabilities, including Morgan Stanley Online, which permit clients to
invest and trade through the Internet, automated telephone trading, wireless
trading or a registered representative. Morgan Stanley provides investment
options online, including detailed account information, real-time securities
price quotes, graphs and portfolio performance information and trade execution.
Clients can also subscribe to proprietary equity research reports and analysts'
ratings. Morgan Stanley also offers clients extended trading hours through
MarketXT(TM), the ability to trade U.S. treasury securities and certain
municipal securities online every weekday, 24 hours per day and, to qualified
clients, access to initial public offerings and other issues Morgan Stanley
underwrites. In addition, Morgan Stanley's Networth/SM/ service aggregates,
summarizes and delivers individual clients' personal banking and investment
account information in one convenient and secure online location.




Global Private Wealth Management.  Morgan Stanley Private Wealth Management
("PWM") provides financial solutions to individuals, families and foundations
controlling significant pools of wealth from over 70 offices worldwide. PWM
provides access to Morgan Stanley's trading capabilities, research and
analytical products and its securities underwritings. PWM investment
representatives manage specific financial asset classes and provide tailored
global asset allocation strategies for its clients. PWM also offers certain
private investors the opportunity to co-invest with Morgan Stanley in its
principal investing activities and specialized funds. Globally, Morgan Stanley
provides these activities and other financial advisory services through Morgan
Stanley's Swiss bank subsidiary, Bank Morgan Stanley AG; Morgan Stanley's
Societes d'investissement a capital variable (SICAV) mutual funds based in
Luxembourg; and Morgan Stanley Quilter, a U.K.-based investment management
business providing segregated account management and advisory services to
private individuals, pension funds and trusts. Morgan Stanley also provides
asset management and brokerage services for individual investors through Morgan
Stanley, S.V., S.A. and its network of financial advisors in Spain, Portugal
and Germany.

Research.  Morgan Stanley's global research departments ("Research"), comprised
of economists, industry analysts and strategists, engage in research activities
in the equity, fixed income and high-yield areas. Research produces reports and
studies on the economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market
analyses, individual companies and industry developments. It analyzes worldwide
trends covering numerous industries and approximately 2,200 individual
companies, approximately half of which are located outside of the U.S. Research
also provides analyses and forecasts relating to economic and monetary
developments affecting matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies,
securities and economic trends. Research provides support for the sales and
trading of equity and fixed income securities in the form of quantitative,
qualitative and credit analyses and the development of research products and
publications such as Macroscope/SM/ and The Competitive Edge/SM/. Research
provides analytical support and publishes reports on mortgage-related
securities and the markets in which they are traded and does original research
on valuation techniques. Research's information and data are disseminated to
investors through various third-party distributors, proprietary Internet sites
such as Client Link, and through Morgan Stanley's sales forces.

Other.  Morgan Stanley also engages in other businesses, including aircraft
financing activities. Morgan Stanley owns Ansett Worldwide Aviation Services,
one of the world's leading aircraft leasing groups, leasing new and used
commercial jet aircraft to airlines around the world.

Competition and Regulation.

Competition.  Morgan Stanley encounters intense competition in its Securities
business and competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities
and financial services firms. The principal competitive factors affecting
Morgan Stanley's Securities business include Morgan Stanley's reputation, the
quality of its professionals and other personnel, its products and services,
relative pricing and innovation. Morgan Stanley experiences competition for
qualified employees from the financial services, insurance and management
consulting industries and from private equity funds. Morgan Stanley's ability
to sustain or improve its competitive position will substantially depend on its
ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Morgan Stanley's
ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally dependent on
Morgan Stanley's credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently,
particularly in its capital-intensive investment banking and sales, trading,
financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position.
Morgan Stanley has increasingly been requested to provide financing or
financing commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities.
This activity is expected to continue and may grow in the future.

Besides competition from firms traditionally engaged in the financial services
business, Morgan Stanley has experienced increasing competition in recent years
from other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies, online
financial services providers, sponsors of mutual funds and other companies
offering financial services in the U.S. and globally and through the Internet.
The financial services industry has continued to experience consolidation and
convergence, as institutions involved in a range of financial services
industries have merged. This convergence trend is expected to continue and
could result in Morgan Stanley's competitors




gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of
products and services and geographic diversity. The complementary trends in the
financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among
other things, technological, risk management and other infrastructure
challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for Morgan
Stanley to remain competitive.

Regulation.  Morgan Stanley's Securities business is, and the securities,
commodities and financial services industries generally are, regulated
extensively in the U.S. at the federal and state levels and internationally.
Morgan Stanley is regulated by the various regulatory bodies charged with
safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and
with protecting the interests of customers participating in those markets.

MS&Co. and MSDWI are registered as broker-dealers with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia
and Puerto Rico, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations,
including the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD"),
and various securities exchanges, including the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
(the "NYSE"). Broker-dealers are regulated by securities administrators in
those states in which they conduct business. Broker-dealers are also subject to
regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales
and trading practices, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities,
capital structure, record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and
employees. The SEC, other governmental regulatory authorities, including state
securities commissions, and self-regulatory organizations may institute
administrative proceedings against broker-dealers or members, which could
result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, the
suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or
member or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences.

Margin lending by certain subsidiaries is regulated by the Federal Reserve
Board's restrictions on lending in connection with customer purchases of
securities, and such subsidiaries are also required by NASD and NYSE rules to
impose maintenance requirements on the value of securities contained in margin
accounts. In many cases, Morgan Stanley's margin policies are more stringent
than these rules.

As futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and MSDWI's activities in the futures
and options-on-futures markets are regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (the "CFTC") and various domestic boards of trade and other
commodity exchanges. Certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley are registered with
the CFTC as commodity trading advisers and/or commodity pool operators. Morgan
Stanley's futures and options-on-futures business is also regulated by the
National Futures Association, a not-for-profit membership corporation that the
CFTC has designated as a registered futures association, and of which MS&Co.
and MSDWI are members.

Morgan Stanley conducts some of its government securities activities through
Morgan Stanley Market Products Inc., a member of the NASD registered as a
government securities broker-dealer with the SEC and in certain states. The
Department of the Treasury has promulgated regulations concerning, among other
things, capital adequacy, custody and use of government securities and
transfers and control of government securities subject to repurchase
transactions. The rules of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which are
enforced by the NASD, govern the municipal securities activities of Morgan
Stanley.

Morgan Stanley's Securities business is also regulated extensively by various
non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations,
central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which
Morgan Stanley maintains an office. The Financial Services Authority, the
London Stock Exchange, the London International Financial Futures and Options
Exchange and other regulatory bodies and exchanges regulate Morgan Stanley's
Securities business in the U.K.; the Deutsche Borse AG, the Bundesaufsichtsamt
fur das Kreditwesen (the Federal Banking Supervisory Authority) and
Bundesaufsichtsamt fur den Wertpapierhandel (the Federal Securities Trading
Supervisory Authority), among others, regulate Morgan Stanley's Securities
activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Financial Services Agency,
the Japanese Ministry of Finance,




the Bank of Japan and the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several
Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange,
the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures
Exchange, regulate Morgan Stanley's Securities business in Japan; the Hong Kong
Securities and Futures Commission, The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and
the Hong Kong Futures Exchange Limited regulate Morgan Stanley's Securities
operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the
Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited regulate Morgan Stanley's
Securities business in Singapore.

As registered broker-dealers and member firms of the NYSE, certain subsidiaries
of Morgan Stanley, including MS&Co. and MSDWI, are subject to the SEC's net
capital rule, and, as futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and MSDWI are
subject to the net capital requirements of the CFTC and various commodity
exchanges. Many non-U.S. securities exchanges and regulatory authorities also
either have imposed or are imposing rules relating to capital requirements
applicable to Morgan Stanley's subsidiaries. These rules, which specify minimum
capital requirements, are designed to measure general financial integrity and
liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of assets be kept in
relatively liquid form.

Compliance with the capital requirements may limit Morgan Stanley's operations
requiring the intensive use of capital, such as underwriting, principal
investing, trading activities, lending and the financing of customer account
balances. Such requirements also restrict Morgan Stanley's ability to withdraw
capital from its subsidiaries, which in turn may limit Morgan Stanley's ability
to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of its outstanding
capital stock. A change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting
the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a
significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could
adversely affect Morgan Stanley's ability to pay dividends or to expand or
maintain present business levels.

Occasionally, Morgan Stanley's subsidiaries have been subject to
investigations, other proceedings, fines and sanctions relating to infractions
of various regulations relating to their Securities activities. None of these
regulatory actions has had a material adverse effect on Morgan Stanley or its
business as a whole to date, but may be material to Morgan Stanley's operating
results for a particular future period, depending, upon other things, on the
level of Morgan Stanley's income for such period.

New legislation or regulations, including any legislation or regulations
relating to the activities of broker-dealers and their affiliates (such as the
USA Patriot Act of 2001 and other money laundering legislation); changes in
rules promulgated by the SEC or other U.S. or international governmental,
regulatory or self-regulatory authorities (such as changes to the U.S. Internal
Revenue Code and related regulations or rules promulgated by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board); or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of
existing laws and regulations, may materially adversely affect the financial
condition or results of operation of Morgan Stanley.

Morgan Stanley Bank is an industrial loan company chartered under the laws of
the State of Utah. Morgan Stanley Bank has its deposits insured by the FDIC,
pays FDIC assessments and is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the Utah state banking commission and the FDIC. See also "Credit
Services - Competition and Regulation - Regulation."

                             Investment Management

Morgan Stanley has one of the largest global asset management organizations of
any full-service securities firm, with $459 billion of assets under management
or supervision (which includes certain assets reported in Securities) at
November 30, 2001. Morgan Stanley has portfolio managers located in the U.S.,
Europe, Japan, Singapore, and India who manage a variety of investment advisory
products, ranging from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt
fixed income funds and alternative investments in developed and emerging
markets. Through various service companies, distribution subsidiaries and
investment advisors, principally, Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors Inc.
("Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors"), Van Kampen Asset Management Inc.,
Van Kampen Investment Advisory Corp., Morgan Stanley Investments LP and Morgan
Stanley Investment




Management Inc., Morgan Stanley offers clients various investment styles,
including value, growth, and blended; active and passive management; and
diversified and concentrated portfolios. During fiscal 2001, Morgan Stanley
integrated its investment management activities (which are principally
conducted under the Morgan Stanley Investment Management brand) and aligned
Investment Management's and the Individual Investor Group's marketing, sales
and product development support groups for greater client synergy.

Individual Investors.  Morgan Stanley provides a variety of investment products
and services to individual investors including proprietary open- and closed-end
mutual funds, separately managed accounts and UITs. Additionally, investment
products are available through intermediary platforms, such as 401(k) plans and
variable annuities. Morgan Stanley serves individual investors through its
proprietary network of financial advisors who offer, among other things, Morgan
Stanley- and Van Kampen-branded products. Morgan Stanley also offers Van
Kampen-branded products through a large and diversified network of unaffiliated
national and regional broker-dealers, commercial banks and thrifts, insurance
companies and their affiliated broker-dealers and financial planners ("retail
distributors"). The non-proprietary network encompasses over 250,000 financial
advisors, and includes preferred distribution relationships with several retail
distributors. A small number of retail distributors account for a substantial
portion of Van Kampen sales in that network. Morgan Stanley also distributes
investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through international
non-proprietary distributors.

Institutional Investors.  Morgan Stanley provides investment products and
services to institutional investors worldwide, including corporations,
non-profit organizations, governmental agencies, insurance companies and banks.
Products are available to institutional investors through separately managed
accounts, U.S. and non-U.S. mutual funds, variable annuities, life products and
other pooled vehicles. Morgan Stanley also sub-advises funds for various
financial institutions and intermediaries. A global proprietary sales force and
a group covering the investment consultant industry serve institutional
investors.

Competition and Regulation.

Competition.  Morgan Stanley's Investment Management business competes in the
highly competitive asset management industry. Several factors affect
competition in the sale of these investment products, including investment
objectives and performance, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee
levels, distribution channels and types and quality of services offered.
Besides fund products offered by other broker-dealers, the funds Morgan Stanley
offers compete with funds asset management firms and other providers sell
directly (including through the Internet), as well as with other investment
alternatives.

Regulation.   Certain subsidiaries, including MS&Co., MSDWI and those related
to Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors, Van Kampen Asset Management Inc. and
Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc., are registered as investment
advisors with the SEC and in certain states. Many aspects of Morgan Stanley's
investment advisory business are subject to federal and state laws and
regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment product holder. These
laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Morgan Stanley
from carrying on its investment advisory business in the event that it fails to
comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such
failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on Morgan
Stanley's engaging in the investment advisory business for specified periods of
time, the revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.

Morgan Stanley's Investment Management business is also regulated outside the
U.S. For example, the Financial Services Authority regulates Morgan Stanley's
Investment Management business in the U.K.; the Japanese Ministry of Finance
and the Japan Securities Investment Advisors Association regulates Morgan
Stanley's Investment Management business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange
Board of India regulates Morgan Stanley's Investment Management business in
India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates Morgan Stanley's
Investment Management business in Singapore.




Morgan Stanley Trust, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Morgan Stanley, is a
federally chartered savings bank subject to comprehensive regulation and
periodic examination by the federal Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS") and by
the FDIC. Morgan Stanley Trust is also a registered transfer agent and
shareholder servicing agent subject to regulation and examination in such
capacity by the SEC. As a result of its ownership of Morgan Stanley Trust,
Morgan Stanley is registered with the OTS as a unitary savings and loan holding
company ("SLHC") and subject to regulation and examination by the OTS as a SLHC.

                                Credit Services

Based on its approximately 45.7 million general purpose credit card accounts as
of November 30, 2001, Morgan Stanley, through its Credit Services business, is
one of the largest single issuers of general purpose credit cards in the U.S.
Morgan Stanley's Credit Services business includes DFS, which operates Credit
Services' proprietary general purpose credit card business; its Discover
Business Services, Morgan Stanley's proprietary merchant and cash access
network; and related consumer finance products and services.

Credit Cards and Services.   DFS offers general purpose credit cards designed
to appeal to different market segments of consumers for use through Discover
Business Services. DFS offers several brands of proprietary cards, including
the Discover Classic Card, the Discover Gold Card, the Discover Platinum Card,
the Morgan Stanley Card (offered in the U.K. on the Europay/MasterCard
network), as well as affinity cards. DFS offers cardmembers various products
and financial services, including home loans, personal loans, credit insurance
coverage and auto insurance products. DFS also offers cardmembers certificates
of deposit and money market accounts and the ability to transfer balances from
other credit sources.

DFS also offers cardmembers numerous customer services, including many
available online. Cardmembers may register their account online with the
Discover Card Account Center, which offers Discover Inter@ctive(R), a menu of
free e-mail notifications that inform cardmembers about the status of their
accounts, including reminders that a cardmember's credit limit is approaching
or that a minimum payment is due. Cardmembers may also view detailed account
information online, such as recent transactions and account payments.
Cardmembers may pay their Discover Card bills online via the SmartCheck/SM/
payment option at no cost and receive exclusive discounts and special Cashback
Bonus(R) awards by shopping online at the Internet ShopCenter/SM/. In addition,
the Discover deskshop(R) 3.0 virtual credit card enables cardmembers to use a
single use credit card number (a unique credit card number used for purchases
at a single web site) for online purchases so that the cardmembers never have
to reveal their actual card number online. As of November 30, 2001, DFS had
over 7 million cardmembers registered on the Discover Card Account Center.

Merchants.   Only merchants that are members of the Discover Business Services
network accept the Discover Classic Card, the Discover Gold Card, the Discover
Platinum Card and DFS's other proprietary general purpose credit cards
(exclusive of the Morgan Stanley Card). Since its establishment in 1986, the
Discover Business Services network has expanded and is the largest independent
credit card network in the U.S., consisting of approximately 4 million merchant
and cash access locations accepting credit cards carrying the Discover logo.

DFS operates the issuing and acquiring businesses in the U.S. and accordingly
retains the entire merchant fee paid for transactions effected through the
Discover Business Services network. Because of its independence from the
bankcard associations, DFS can provide customized programs to its merchants in
such areas as processing and the exchange of business surplus online and to
otherwise tailor program terms to meet specific merchant needs. DFS utilizes
its own national sales and support force as well as independent sales agents to
increase and maintain its merchant base. In addition, DFS conducts
telemarketing operations to acquire merchant business.

Marketing.   DFS is distinguishable from credit card issuers that are members
of bankcard associations because it directly controls the brand image,
features, service level and pricing of the Discover Classic Card and its other
U.S. proprietary general purpose credit cards to cardmembers and merchants. In
contrast, bankcard association credit




card issuers compete directly with other issuers using the same brands and
sharing common processes. Because DFS manages all aspects of cardmember and
merchant relationships with respect to its proprietary credit card programs, it
can determine and promote its advertising campaign on a consistent, nationwide
basis and control the campaign's content, timing and promotional features.

DFS promotes its proprietary general purpose credit cards through the use of
different and distinctive features that are designed to appeal to different
consumer bases. For instance, pursuant to the Cashback Bonus award program, DFS
pays Discover Classic Card, Discover Platinum Card and Morgan Stanley Card
cardmembers electing this feature up to 1% of their purchase amounts based upon
their annual level and type of purchases. The Cashback Bonus award may be
remitted to cardmembers in the form of a check, a credit to their accounts, an
exchange of the Cashback Bonus award for certain products or services or a
donation to supported charities.

Credit.   DFS conducts credit reviews to establish that cardmembers meet
standards of ability and willingness to pay. Applications that are not
pre-selected are evaluated by using a credit scoring system (a statistical
evaluation model) based on information provided by applicants and by credit
bureaus. Applications screened under the credit scoring system may be
selectively reviewed and approved or not approved by DFS's credit analysts.

All applicants receiving pre-selected solicitations satisfy DFS's specified
criteria and have been pre-screened through credit bureaus utilizing industry
and customized models. Pre-screening involves independent credit reporting
agencies that identify individuals satisfying creditworthiness criteria
supplied by DFS (in the form of a point scoring model or other screening
factors) that are intended to provide a general indication, based on available
information, of such person's ability and willingness to pay their financial
obligations. Recipients responding to DFS's pre-selected solicitations are
post-screened prior to enrollment to confirm continued satisfaction of DFS's
criteria.

Cardmembers' credit lines are reviewed at least annually and may be reviewed
more frequently if the cardmember requests or if DFS deems more frequent review
appropriate. Such reviews include scoring the cardmember's payment behavior on
the account and reviewing the cardmember's credit bureau record. Based on the
review, the cardmember's credit line may be raised or lowered or the account
may be closed. In addition, DFS, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic
monitoring and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles.

Operations.   DFS performs the functions required to service and operate its
proprietary card accounts either by itself or through agreements with third
parties. These functions include new account solicitation, application
processing, new account fulfillment, transaction authorization and processing,
cardmember billing, payment processing, fraud prevention and investigation,
cardmember services and collection of delinquent accounts. DFS maintains
several operations centers throughout the U.S. and one in Scotland. Systems at
computer centers operated by an unaffiliated communication services provider
also support DFS's operations.

Competition and Regulation.

Competition.   Morgan Stanley's Credit Services business competes in the
competitive credit card industry. The credit card market includes other
bank-issued credit cards (the vast majority of which bear the MasterCard and/or
Visa servicemark) and charge cards and credit cards issued by travel and
entertainment companies. Competition centers on merchant acceptance, account
acquisition and customer utilization. Merchant acceptance is based on
competitive transaction pricing and the volume and usage of credit cards in
circulation. Account acquisition and customer utilization are driven by the
offering of credit cards with competitive and appealing features, such as no
annual fees, low introductory interest rates and other customized features
targeting specific consumer groups. The credit card industry has increasingly
used advertising, targeted marketing and pricing competition in interest rates,
annual fees and reward programs in order to compete effectively and grow.
Issuers also seek to attract balances from competing sources of credit via
low-priced balance transfer programs.

Regulation.   Morgan Stanley conducts substantial portions of its Credit
Services business in the U.S. through Discover Bank, a wholly-owned indirect
subsidiary. Discover Bank is a state bank chartered under the laws of




the State of Delaware. Discover Bank has its deposits insured by the FDIC, pays
FDIC assessments and is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic
examination by the Delaware state banking commissioner and by the FDIC.

Generally, a company that controls a "bank," as defined in the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956 (the "BHCA"), is required to register as a bank holding
company and is regulated as a bank holding company by the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System. However, pursuant to the BHCA (as amended by the
Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 (the "CEBA") and more recently by the
Gramm Leach Bliley Act of 1999 (the "GLBA")), Discover Bank may only engage in
either commercial lending or taking demand deposits (but not both) for Morgan
Stanley to maintain its non-bank holding company status under the grandfather
provisions of the CEBA and GLBA amendments to the BHCA. Morgan Stanley is also
permitted to own Morgan Stanley Bank without registering as a bank holding
company because Morgan Stanley Bank is not considered a "bank" under the BHCA
(as amended by the GLBA). See also "Securities--Competition and
Regulation--Regulation."

Federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations regulate extensively
the relationships among cardholders and credit card issuers. Under federal law,
Discover Bank may charge interest at the rate allowed by Delaware law, the
state in which it is located, and export such interest rate to all other
states. Delaware law does not limit the amount of interest that may be charged
on loans of the types offered by Discover Bank. Federal and state bankruptcy
and debtor relief laws affect Morgan Stanley to the extent such laws result in
any loans being charged off as uncollectible.

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
("FDICIA"), the federal bank regulatory agencies are required to take "prompt
corrective action" in respect of banks that do not meet minimum capital
requirements, and certain restrictions are imposed upon banks that meet certain
capital requirements but are not "well capitalized" for purposes of FDICIA. A
bank that is not well capitalized, as defined for purposes of FDICIA, is, among
other consequences, generally prohibited from accepting brokered deposits and
offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the
prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where
the deposits are solicited). Discover Bank currently uses brokered deposits as
a funding source and, if it were not able to do so, its funding costs could
increase.

Certain acquisitions of Morgan Stanley's common stock may be subject to
regulatory approval and notice under federal and state banking law. In
addition, Discover Bank would no longer qualify for grandfather rights under
the CEBA (as amended by the GLBA) if direct or indirect control of Discover
Bank were transferred to an unaffiliated third party. In that event, the third
party would have to operate in a manner permissible for a bank holding company
under the BHCA (as amended by the GLBA).

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Bank Limited ("Morgan Stanley Bank Limited"), Morgan
Stanley's chartered bank in the U.K., is governed primarily by the U.K.'s
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Morgan Stanley Bank Limited is subject
to regulation related to capital adequacy, consumer protection and deposit
protection. Morgan Stanley Bank Limited's activities are supervised by the
Financial Services Authority, which conducts periodic examinations of its
operations and records, and by the Office of Fair Trading in relation to
consumer credit activities.

                     Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley (all of whom are members of Morgan
Stanley's Management Committee) as of February 14, 2002 are set forth below.

Philip J. Purcell (58).   Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief
Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley (since the Merger). Chairman of the Board
of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Dean Witter Discover (1986 to the
Merger). Director or trustee of approximately 100 registered investment
companies for which Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors serves as investment
manager or investment adviser. Director of AMR Corporation.




Robert G. Scott (56).  President and Chief Operating Officer and Director of
Morgan Stanley (since March 2001). Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Morgan Stanley (the Merger to March 2001). Head of Morgan Stanley
Group's Investment Banking Division (1994 to 1996). Managing Director of MS&Co.
(since 1979).

Tarek F. Abdel-Meguid (46).  Head of Morgan Stanley's Investment Banking
Division (since September 2000). Deputy head of Morgan Stanley's Investment
Banking Division (1997 to September 2000). Deputy head and then head of Morgan
Stanley Group's Corporate Finance Department (June 1995 to the Merger).
Managing Director of MS&Co. (since 1991).

Stephen S. Crawford (37).  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of Morgan Stanley (since March 2001). Executive Vice President and Chief
Strategic and Administrative Officer of Morgan Stanley (June 2000 to March
2001). Managing Director of MS&Co. (since 1998) and Executive Director of
MS&Co. (1995 to 1998).

Zoe Cruz (47). Head of Morgan Stanley's Fixed Income Division (since September
2000). Head of Morgan Stanley's Foreign Exchange Department (August 1993 to
September 2000). Managing Director of MS&Co. (since 1990).

John P. Havens (45). Head of Morgan Stanley's Institutional Equity Division
(since September 2000). Managing Director of MS&Co. (since 1990).

Roger C. Hochschild (37). Chief Strategic and Administrative Officer of Morgan
Stanley (since March 2001). Executive Vice President of DFS (November 1998 to
February 2001). Senior executive at MBNA America Bank (1994 to 1998) where his
last position was Senior Executive Vice President.

Donald G. Kempf, Jr. (64). Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and
Secretary of Morgan Stanley (since December 1999). Partner at the law firm of
Kirkland & Ellis (1971 to December 1999) and a member of its management
committee (1981 to 1998).

Mitchell M. Merin (48). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan
Stanley's Investment Management business (since December 1998). President and
Director of Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors (since April 1997) and its Chief
Executive Officer (since June 1998). Executive Vice President and Chief
Administrative Officer of Dean Witter Discover (1994 to the Merger). President
of approximately 100 registered investment companies for which Morgan Stanley
Investment Advisors serves as investment manager or investment adviser.
Director or trustee of approximately 25 registered investment companies for
which Van Kampen Advisors Inc. (or a subsidiary thereof) serves as investment
manager or investment adviser.

David W. Nelms (40). President and Chief Operating Officer of DFS and Chairman
of Discover Bank (since September 1998). Senior executive at MBNA America Bank
(1992 to 1998) where his last position was Vice Chairman.

Stephan F. Newhouse (54). Co-President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan
Stanley's Institutional Securities Group (since September 2000) and Chairman of
the Board of Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited (since December 2000).
Deputy head of Morgan Stanley's Institutional Securities Group (December 1997
to September 2000). Director and Vice Chairman of MS&Co. (since December 1997)
and Managing Director of MS&Co. (since 1988).

Vikram S. Pandit (45). Co-President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan
Stanley's Institutional Securities Group (since September 2000). Head of Morgan
Stanley's Institutional Equity Division (the Merger to September 2000). Head of
Morgan Stanley Group's Equity Division (January 1997 to the Merger). Managing
Director of MS&Co. (since January 1990).  Director of Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.




Joseph R. Perella (60). Chairman of Morgan Stanley's Institutional Securities
Group (since September 2000). Head of Morgan Stanley's Investment Banking
Division (the Merger to September 2000). Head of Morgan Stanley Group's
Investment Banking Division (January 1997 to the Merger). Head of Morgan
Stanley Group's Corporate Finance Department (May 1995 to December 1996).
Managing Director of MS&Co. (since November 1993).

John H. Schaefer (49). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan
Stanley's Individual Investor Group (since June 2000). Executive Vice President
and Chief Strategic and Administrative Officer of Morgan Stanley (June 1998 to
June 2000). Head of Corporate and Strategic Planning for Morgan Stanley (the
Merger to June 1998). Executive Vice President and Director of Corporate
Finance for Dean Witter Discover (1991 to the Merger).

Item 2.  Properties.* Morgan Stanley owns its executive offices, located at
1585 Broadway, New York, New York, where it occupies approximately 958,000
square feet as its New York headquarters. Morgan Stanley also owns a 600,000
square foot building in Riverwoods, Illinois that houses Credit Services'
executive offices and an adjacent 45 acre parcel where an additional 500,000
square feet of office space is currently under construction. Morgan Stanley
occupies approximately 2,000,000 square feet at various locations in Manhattan
under leases expiring between 2002 and 2013. In addition, Morgan Stanley leases
approximately 419,000 square feet in Brooklyn, New York under a lease expiring
in 2013. In January 2002, Morgan Stanley preliminarily agreed to purchase a
725,000 square feet office building on 107 acres in Westchester County, New
York.

Morgan Stanley's London headquarters are located at 25 Cabot Square, Canary
Wharf where the firm occupies approximately 451,000 square feet and owns the
ground lease obligation and freehold interest in the land and the building.
Morgan Stanley also leases approximately 400,000 square feet at 20 Cabot Square
and at other locations in Canary Wharf, under lease arrangements expiring
between 2002 and 2020. Morgan Stanley is committed to leasing for 25 years an
aggregate of approximately 676,000 square feet in two buildings under
construction at Canary Wharf. One lease commenced in 2001 and the other is
expected to commence in 2003.

Morgan Stanley's Tokyo headquarters are located in Sapporo's Yebisu Garden
Place, Ebisu, Shibuya-ku, where the firm occupies approximately 297,000 square
feet under a lease expiring in 2002, but renewable at Morgan Stanley's option
in two-year increments.

Morgan Stanley's subsidiaries have offices, operations and processing centers
and warehouse facilities located throughout the U.S., and certain subsidiaries
maintain offices and other facilities in international locations. Morgan
Stanley's properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations
that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these
properties are located. Facilities owned or occupied by Morgan Stanley and its
subsidiaries are believed to be adequate for the purposes for which they are
currently used and are well maintained.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings. Morgan Stanley is involved in the following legal
proceedings:

I. Term Trust Matters. A putative class action, Thomas D. Keeley, et al. v.
Morgan Stanley DW Inc., et al. (the "Keeley Action"), was commenced in the
California Superior Court, Orange County, on October 27, 1994 and later
consolidated with three similar class actions. Defendants are Morgan Stanley,
MSDWI, Morgan Stanley Distributors Inc., Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors,
Morgan Stanley Services Company Inc., TCW Management Co., Trust Company of the
West, TCW Asset Management Co., Inc., TCW Funds Management, Inc. and eight
individuals, including two MSDWI employees. Plaintiffs allege breach of
fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, fraud, deceit and violation of the
California Corporation Code in the marketing and selling of the TCW/DW Term
Trusts 2000, 2002 and 2003. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory and
punitive damages.

- --------
*  The indicated total aggregate square footage leased is as of January 31,
   2002 and does not include space occupied by Morgan Stanley securities branch
   offices.




The settlement of the Keeley Action was approved on December 7, 2001. On
October 13, 1998, three separate state court actions were filed in New Jersey,
New York and Florida. The defendants' motions to dismiss the New Jersey and New
York actions were granted on February 2, 2000 and May 3, 2000, respectively,
and the dismissals were not appealed. The Florida action was removed to the
U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida on November 10, 1998 and
was remanded to state court by order dated October 2, 2000.

On November 20, 2000 the Department of Enforcement of the National Association
of Securities Dealers Regulation, Inc. ("NASDR") issued a complaint against
MSDWI and two individual respondents alleging violations of certain NASDR
Conduct Rules, including misrepresentation and omissions, in connection with
the internal marketing relating to the sale of three TCW/DW Term Trusts in 1992
and 1993. The complaint generally requests sanctions, disgorgement and costs
that are not specified in detail. All three respondents filed motions to
dismiss on the grounds of timeliness that were granted by a hearing panel on
December 14, 2001. The matter has been called for review before the National
Adjudicatory Council of the NASDR.

II. In re Merrill Lynch, et al. Securities Litigation. On January 19, 1995, a
putative class action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of
New Jersey on behalf of all persons who placed market orders to purchase or
sell securities listed on the National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") with MSDWI between November 4, 1992 and
November 4, 1994. The complaint, consolidated with another action against other
brokerage firms, seeks unspecified damages and alleges that MSDWI failed to
provide best execution of customer market orders for NASDAQ securities. The
complaint asserts claims for violations of Section 10(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Securities Exchange Act") and Rule 10b-5 promulgated
thereunder and state law claims for breach of fiduciary duty and unjust
enrichment. On November 8, 1999, the district court denied plaintiffs' motion
for class certification. On August 6, 2001, the district court decision denying
plaintiffs' motion for class certification was affirmed by a three-judge panel
of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. On November 18, 2001,
plaintiffs' petition for re-hearing with suggestion of a re-hearing en banc was
denied.

III. Penalty Bid Litigation. On or about August 21, 1998, a purported class
action complaint, Friedman, et al. v. Salomon Smith Barney, et al., was filed
in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the "SDNY")
against Morgan Stanley and nine other underwriters of securities. An amended
complaint, dated February 15, 1999, was filed against Morgan Stanley and
sixteen other underwriters of securities. The amended plaintiff class purports
to consist of all retail brokerage customers who purchased securities in public
offerings from defendants and their alleged co-conspirators at artificially
inflated prices. The amended complaint alleges that defendants and their
co-conspirators engaged in anticompetitive activity with respect to the
distribution of securities in public offerings by agreeing (i) to discourage
retail customers from "flipping" or selling shares purchased in public
offerings prior to the expiration of a purported "retail restricted period" (a
period alleged to have been arbitrarily set by the syndicate manager during
which restraints on retail accounts are imposed), and/or (ii) to penalize
retail customers who "flipped," and/or (iii) otherwise to prevent retail
customers from "flipping." The amended complaint also alleges that similar
restraints were not imposed on institutional purchasers of shares in public
offerings. The amended complaint alleges violations of Section 1 of the Sherman
Act and breach of fiduciary duty, and seeks compensatory, treble and punitive
damages in unspecified amounts, injunctive relief, costs and expenses,
including attorneys', accountants' and experts' fees. On December 7, 2000,
defendants' motion to dismiss was granted with prejudice. On January 22, 2001,
plaintiffs' motion for reconsideration was denied. On February 20, 2001,
plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal of the dismissal.

IV. IPO Fee Litigation. On March 15, 1999, a consolidated amended complaint
(consolidating three purported class action complaints filed in November and
December of 1998 in the SDNY), captioned In re Public Offering Fee Antitrust
Litigation, was filed in the SDNY against Morgan Stanley and 24 other
underwriters. The consolidated amended complaint alleges that defendants
conspired to fix the "fee" paid by purported class members to buy and sell
initial public offering ("IPO") securities of U.S. companies by invariably
setting the underwriters' spread at 7%, particularly in issuances of $20 to $80
million, in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The consolidated amended
complaint seeks treble damages and injunctive relief, as well as costs,




including reasonable attorneys' fees. Two additional purported class actions
were filed by issuer plaintiffs against Morgan Stanley and other underwriters,
captioned CHS Electronics, Inc. v. Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, et
al., (U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida on or about
August 3, 2000) and Weinman v. Salomon Smith Barney Inc., et al. (SDNY on or
about October 13, 2000), respectively. By court order, both actions were
consolidated with In re Public Offering Fee Antitrust Litigation on January 12,
2001.

On February 9, 2001, the court in In re Public Offering Fee Antitrust
Litigation dismissed the consolidated amended complaint with prejudice and also
denied plantiffs' motion to further amend the complaint to add an issuer
plaintiff. The CHS Electronics and Weinman actions were not affected by this
decision. On March 26, 2001, plaintiffs filed a motion to vacate or in the
alternative a motion for reconsideration in In re Public Offering Fee Antitrust
Litigation. On April 11, 2001, the court entered an order denying plaintiffs'
motion to vacate or in the alternative for reconsideration in In re Public
Offering Fee Antitrust Litigation. On May 10, 2001, plaintiffs filed a notice
of appeal.

On May 23, 2001, the court consolidated the issuer plaintiff actions, including
CHS Electronics and Weinman, under a new caption entitled In re Issuer
Plaintiff Initial Public Offering Fee Antitrust Litigation. On July 6, 2001,
plaintiffs filed a consolidated class action complaint. On September 28, 2001,
defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated class action complaint.

V. IPO Allocation Matters. On or about March 9, 2001, a purported class action
complaint, captioned Billing v. Credit Suisse First Boston Corp., et al., was
filed in the SDNY against Morgan Stanley and six other underwriters of various
IPOs. The complaint alleges that defendants and their co-conspirators conspired
to increase underwriters' compensation and the prices at which securities
traded after the IPOs in violation of the federal antitrust laws, particularly
Section 1 of the Sherman Act. The complaint alleges that defendants required
customers who wanted large allocations of IPO securities to pay undisclosed and
excessive underwriters' compensation in the form of increased brokerage
commissions; required customers to agree to buy shares of securities offered in
the IPOs after the IPOs were completed at prices higher than the IPO price
("tie-in purchases"); and required that such tie-in purchases be made at
specified escalating price levels designed to increase and inflate the price of
the securities in the secondary market. During fiscal 2001, numerous other
purported class action complaints making similar factual allegations and
alleging violations of federal and/or state antitrust laws were filed against
Morgan Stanley and numerous other underwriters in the SDNY. The several
purported class action antitrust complaints, purportedly brought on behalf of
purchasers of stock in the IPOs or the aftermarket, have been consolidated
before one judge in the SDNY.

In addition, during fiscal 2001, numerous purported class actions were filed in
the SDNY against certain issuers of IPO securities, certain individual officers
of those issuers, Morgan Stanley and other underwriters of those IPOs,
purportedly on behalf of purchasers of stock in the IPOs or the aftermarket.
Many of these complaints make factual allegations similar to the Billing
complaint, but claim violations of the federal securities laws, including
Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act")
and Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act. Some of the complaints also
allege that continuous "buy" recommendations by the defendants' research
analysts improperly increased or sustained the prices at which the securities
traded after the IPOs. These various purported class action securities
complaints have been coordinated for pre-trial purposes before one judge in the
SDNY (different from the judge handling the antitrust complaints). A motion to
recuse this judge filed by certain co-defendants has been denied, and a writ of
mandamus before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit is pending.

During fiscal 2001, various governmental agencies issued subpoenas to Morgan
Stanley (as well as certain other underwriters of IPOs) in connection with
their investigations of the IPO allocation process. Morgan Stanley is
cooperating with the investigations.

VI. Research Matters. During fiscal 2001, several purported class action
complaints were filed against Morgan Stanley, and in certain cases other
financial services firms, in various jurisdictions, including the SDNY and the




Supreme Court of the State of New York. These cases generally allege that
analysts' research was improperly influenced in order to obtain investment
banking business in violation of federal securities law or state law. Eight of
the nine complaints originally filed in the SDNY have been dismissed with
prejudice. The New York state court complaints have been removed to federal
court; three of the four complaints have been voluntarily dismissed without
prejudice, and the fourth is subject to pending motions to dismiss and to
remand back to state court.

VII. Nelson, et al. v. Aim Advisors, Inc., et al.  Effective October 16, 2001,
plaintiffs filed a second amended complaint in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Illinois against Morgan Stanley Investment
Advisors, Morgan Stanley Distributors Inc., Van Kampen Asset Management Inc.,
Van Kampen Funds Inc. and approximately two dozen other mutual fund companies.
This purported nationwide class action alleges that the distribution and
advisor fees paid by the various mutual funds from May 1, 1991 to the present
were unlawful and excessive, that each fund complex exercised a controlling
influence over statutorily independent directors of each fund and that these
fees were thus not properly approved. The complaint alleges that the
defendants' actions violated the Investment Company Act of 1940, as well as
common law fiduciary duties, and seeks, among other things, actual and punitive
damages and declaratory relief. Defendants have moved to sever plaintiffs'
claims and transfer venue, and these motions are pending.

VIII. Mutual Fund Valuation Matters.  On September 28, 2001, a purported class
action, Abrams v. Van Kampen Funds Inc., et al., was commenced in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against Van Kampen
Funds Inc., Van Kampen Investment Advisory Corp., Van Kampen Prime Rate Income
Trust ("Van Kampen Trust") and certain of Van Kampen Trust's officers and
trustees. The complaint alleges that during the period between September 30,
1998 and March 26, 2001, defendants violated certain provisions of the
Securities Act and common law fiduciary duties by misstating Van Kampen Trust's
net asset value in its prospectus, registration statement and financial
reports. The complaint seeks rescissionary damages, unspecified damages,
interest, fees and costs. An additional purported class action complaint,
Callis v. Van Kampen Funds Inc., et al., was filed in the same court and was
consolidated with the Abrams action by court order on December 5, 2001. On
January 22, 2002, defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated complaint in its
entirety.

An additional purported class action, Hicks v. Morgan Stanley & Co., et al.,
was filed on November 14, 2001 in the SDNY against Morgan Stanley & Co., Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter Services Company Inc., Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors,
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Prime Income Trust ("Morgan Stanley Trust") and
certain of Morgan Stanley Trust's officers and trustees. The complaint alleges
that during the period between November 1, 1998 and April 26, 2001, defendants
violated certain provisions of the Securities Act and common law fiduciary
duties by misstating Morgan Stanley Trust's net asset value in its prospectus,
registration statement and financial reports. The complaint seeks rescissionary
damages, unspecified damages, interest, fees and costs. On December 18, 2001,
an additional purported class action complaint, Holzer v. Morgan Stanley & Co.,
et al., was filed against defendants in the SDNY making factual allegations
similar to the Hicks complaint.

IX. Japanese Short Selling Matter.  On February 1, 2002, the Financial Services
Agency of Japan ("FSA") announced sanctions against Morgan Stanley Japan
Limited ("MSJL"), Morgan Stanley's Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, for
short sale violations and creating an artificial market relating to Japanese
equities trades executed on December 4, 2001. MSJL notified the Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission ("SESC") of this incident, fully cooperated
with the SESC's investigation and provided the full details of all relevant
trading activity. Based on the SESC's recommendations, the FSA suspended MSJL
from trading equities for its proprietary accounts for five weeks between
February 4 and March 8, 2002 and ordered Morgan Stanley to submit a business
improvement plan. On February 1, 2002, the Japanese Ministry of Finance
announced that it had also suspended MSJL from underwriting Japanese government
bonds and participating in bond auctions from February 4 to March 8, 2002.




X. Other.  In addition to the matters described above, Morgan Stanley,
including MS&Co. and MSDWI, has been named from time to time as a defendant in
various legal actions, including arbitrations, arising in connection with its
activities as a global diversified financial services institution, certain of
which legal actions include large claims for punitive damages. Morgan Stanley,
including MS&Co. and MSDWI, is also involved, from time to time, in
investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory agencies.
Some of these legal actions, investigations and proceedings may result in
adverse judgments, penalties or fines. In view of the inherent difficulty of
predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases such as some of
those described above in which substantial damages are sought, Morgan Stanley
cannot state what the eventual outcome of pending matters will be. Morgan
Stanley is contesting the allegations made in each pending matter and believes,
based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the
outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition of Morgan Stanley, but may be material to
Morgan Stanley's operating results for a particular period, depending, upon
other things, on the level of Morgan Stanley's income for such period.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. None.




                                    Part II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters.
Morgan Stanley's common stock trades on the NYSE and The Pacific Exchange.
Morgan Stanley had approximately 146,000 holders of record at November 30,
2001; however, the number of beneficial owners of common stock is believed to
exceed this number.

Set forth below is the low and high sales prices per share of Morgan Stanley's
common stock for each full quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal
periods and the frequency and amount of any cash dividends declared per share
of Morgan Stanley's common stock for the last eight fiscal quarters.







Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.

                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
            (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)







- --------
(1)Certain prior-period information has been reclassified to conform to the
   current year's presentation.
(2)Amounts shown are used to calculate basic earnings per common share.
(3)These amounts exclude the current portion of long-term borrowings and
   include Capital Units and Preferred Securities Issued by Subsidiaries.




Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
         Results of Operations.

Introduction.

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (the "Company") is a global financial services
firm that maintains leading market positions in each of its three business
segments--Securities, Investment Management and Credit Services. The Company's
Securities business includes securities underwriting and distribution;
financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions,
restructurings, real estate and project finance; full-service brokerage
services; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity
securities and related products and fixed income securities and related
products, including foreign exchange and commodities; principal investing,
including private equity activities; and aircraft financing activities. The
Company's Investment Management business provides global asset management
products and services for individual and institutional investors through three
principal distribution channels: the Company's financial advisors and
investment representatives; a non-proprietary channel consisting of third-party
broker-dealers, banks, financial planners and other intermediaries; and the
Company's institutional channel. The Company's Credit Services business
includes the issuance of the Discover(R) Classic Card, the Discover Gold
Card, the Discover Platinum Card, the Morgan Stanley Card/SM/ and other
proprietary general purpose credit cards; and the operation of Discover
Business Services, a proprietary network of merchant and cash access locations
in the U.S.

The Company's results of operations for the 12 months ended November 30, 2001
("fiscal 2001"), November 30, 2000 ("fiscal 2000") and November 30, 1999
("fiscal 1999") are discussed below.

Results of Operations.

Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations.

The Company's results of operations may be materially affected by market
fluctuations and by economic factors. In addition, results of operations in the
past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by
many factors of a global nature, including economic and market conditions; the
availability and cost of capital; the level and volatility of equity prices,
commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices;
technological changes and events (such as the use of the Internet to conduct
electronic commerce and the use of electronic communications trading networks);
the availability and cost of credit; inflation; investor sentiment; and
legislative, legal and regulatory developments (see also "Terrorist Attacks"
herein). Such factors also may have an impact on the Company's ability to
achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis, including (without
limitation) increased market share in its securities activities, growth in
assets under management and the expansion of its Credit Services business.

The Company's Securities business, particularly its involvement in primary and
secondary markets for all types of financial products, including derivatives,
is subject to substantial positive and negative fluctuations due to a variety
of factors that cannot be predicted with great certainty, including variations
in the fair value of securities and other financial products and the volatility
and liquidity of global trading markets. Fluctuations also occur due to the
level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size,
number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and
the realization of returns from the Company's private equity and other
principal investments. The level of global market activity also could impact
the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and
supervision and the way in which such capital is allocated among money market,
equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could cause
fluctuations to occur in the Company's Investment Management business. In the
Company's Credit Services business, changes in economic variables, such as the
number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, and
the level of consumer confidence and consumer debt, may substantially affect
consumer loan levels and credit quality, which, in turn, could impact the
results of Credit Services.





The Company's results of operations also may be materially affected by
competitive factors. Included among the principal competitive factors affecting
the Securities business are the quality of its professionals and other
personnel, its products and services, relative pricing and innovation.
Competition in the Company's Investment Management business is affected by a
number of factors, including investment objectives and performance; advertising
and sales promotion efforts; and the level of fees, distribution channels, and
types and quality of services offered. In the Credit Services business,
competition centers on merchant acceptance of credit cards, credit cardmember
acquisition and customer utilization of credit cards, all of which are impacted
by the types of fees, interest rates and other features offered.

In addition to competition from firms traditionally engaged in the financial
services business, there has been increased competition in recent years from
other sources, such as commercial banks, insurance companies, online financial
service providers, sponsors of mutual funds and other companies offering
financial services both in the U.S. and globally and through the Internet. The
financial services industry also has continued to experience consolidation and
convergence, as financial institutions involved in a broad range of financial
services industries have merged. This convergence trend is expected to continue
and could result in the Company's competitors gaining greater capital and other
resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic
diversity. In addition, the Company has experienced competition for qualified
employees. The Company's ability to sustain or improve its competitive position
will substantially depend on its ability to continue to attract and retain
qualified employees while managing compensation costs.

As a result of the above economic and competitive factors, net income and
revenues in any particular period may not be representative of full-year
results and may vary significantly from year to year and from quarter to
quarter. The Company intends to manage its business for the long term and to
mitigate the potential effects of market downturns by strengthening its
competitive position in the global financial services industry through
diversification of its revenue sources, enhancement of its global franchise and
management of costs. The Company's overall financial results will continue to
be affected by its ability and success in maintaining high levels of profitable
business activities, emphasizing fee-based products that are designed to
generate a continuing stream of revenues, evaluating credit product pricing,
and managing risks and costs. In addition, the complementary trends in the
financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among
other things, technological, risk management and other infrastructure
challenges that will require effective resource allocation in order for the
Company to remain competitive.

Global Market and Economic Conditions in Fiscal 2001.

Global market and economic conditions during fiscal 2001 were significantly
less favorable compared with those experienced during the prior fiscal year.
The level of global economic activity declined throughout fiscal 2001, as the
world's major economies, including the U.S., Japan and the European region, all
experienced difficulties. These conditions contributed to sharp declines in the
global equity markets, as well as lower levels of investment banking activity
and retail investor participation in the financial markets. Such conditions
were exacerbated by the terrorist attacks on the U.S. that occurred on
September 11, 2001 (see "Terrorist Attacks" herein). It currently is not clear
when these market and economic conditions will improve.

These conditions adversely affected the Company's fiscal 2001 results of
operations, as the net income of each of its three business segments
(Securities, Investment Management and Credit Services) declined from the
record levels achieved in fiscal 2000. The Company's Securities business
recorded lower revenues from its investment banking, institutional sales and
trading, and individual securities activities in fiscal 2001 as compared with
fiscal 2000. The decline in revenues in the Company's Investment Management
business reflected a decrease in customer assets under management or
supervision, while the Company's Credit Services business recorded lower net
credit income due to higher charge-offs (see "Business Segments" herein).





In the U.S., market and economic conditions were difficult during fiscal 2001.
Although the level of consumer spending remained steady for most of fiscal
2001, the rate of U.S. economic growth declined significantly, primarily
reflecting lower levels of corporate investment and production. The reduced
economic activity, coupled with lower corporate earnings and uncertainty about
future business prospects, led to higher levels of unemployment and decreased
consumer confidence. These conditions, as well as the reduction in the level of
overall global economic activity, contributed to the declines experienced by
U.S. equity markets. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 placed
additional pressure on the U.S. economy and financial markets in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2001 (see "Terrorist Attacks" herein). In response to these
conditions, during fiscal 2001 the Federal Reserve Board (the "Fed")
aggressively eased interest rates in order to stimulate economic activity and
to avoid a recession. In 10 separate actions, the Fed lowered both the
overnight lending rate and the discount rate by an aggregate of 4.5%.
Subsequent to fiscal year-end, in December 2001 the Fed lowered both the
overnight lending rate and the discount rate by an additional 0.25%.

Economic and market conditions also were difficult in Europe during fiscal
2001. The European region experienced lower levels of employment and industrial
production, which was partially attributable to the slowdown in U.S. economic
growth and the weakened global economy. As a result, the majority of equity
market indices within the region declined during fiscal 2001. In response to
these conditions, as well as increased indications of slowing economic growth
within the European Union, particularly in Germany, the European Central Bank
(the "ECB") lowered the benchmark interest rate within the European Union by an
aggregate of 1.5% in four separate actions during fiscal 2001. The U.K. also
was adversely affected by the difficult conditions in the global economy during
fiscal 2001, which contributed to the decline in the nation's equity markets.
Indications of weakened domestic demand, business activity and investment
growth prompted the Bank of England to lower the benchmark interest rate by an
aggregate of 2.0% in seven separate actions during fiscal 2001.

Economic and market conditions also were weak in the Far East during fiscal
2001. In Japan, financial markets continued to be adversely impacted by the
worsening condition of the nation's economy. Throughout the year, the
deceleration of global economic growth negatively impacted the level of Japan's
exports, industrial production, corporate earnings and investment. In addition,
consumer spending was sluggish, reflecting an increased unemployment rate and a
decline in consumer confidence. In an effort to mitigate these conditions, the
Bank of Japan lowered the official discount rate by an aggregate of 0.4% in
three separate actions during fiscal 2001. Conditions elsewhere in the Far East
also were difficult during fiscal 2001, as the region's export and production
levels continued to be adversely impacted by the difficult conditions in Japan
and by the overall global economic slowdown.

The decline in the worldwide market for mergers and acquisitions that began in
mid-2000 steepened considerably during fiscal 2001, as economic growth slowed
in both the U.S. and Europe and the level of corporate earnings declined.
Activity continued to be diverse in terms of regional and industry breadth,
reflecting the continuing need for consolidation and globalization in a variety
of industries, including the financial services, the natural resources and the
technology, media and telecommunications sectors. However, the number of
transactions and the average transaction size fell significantly during fiscal
2001 as compared with fiscal 2000, as many companies responded to the difficult
market and economic conditions by changing their focus from expansion to cost
reduction.

The worldwide market for equity underwriting transactions was adversely
affected by the significant uncertainty in the global financial markets, which
contributed to a significant decline in transaction volume as compared with the
prior year. In contrast, the market for fixed income underwritings was
generally strong during fiscal 2001. The higher transaction volume primarily
was attributable to the favorable global interest rate environment, as the
major central banks reduced interest rates throughout fiscal 2001. As a result,
many issuers took advantage of lower borrowing costs.




U.S. consumer demand and spending were resilient for much of fiscal 2001.
However, toward the end of the year consumer confidence declined following the
reduction in personal wealth, rising unemployment and general economic
concerns. Consumer confidence was further weakened following the terrorist
attacks of September 11, 2001 (see "Terrorist Attacks" herein), which
significantly depressed consumer spending in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001.
There also was a rise in personal bankruptcy filings during fiscal 2001.

Fiscal 2001 and Fiscal 2000 Results of the Company.

The Company recorded net income of $3,521 million in fiscal 2001, a 35%
decrease from fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2000, the Company's net income was $5,456
million, an increase of 14% from fiscal 1999. Fiscal 2001's net income included
an extraordinary loss of $30 million associated with the early extinguishment
of certain long-term borrowings. Fiscal 2001's net income also included a
charge of $59 million for the cumulative effect of an accounting change
associated with the Company's adoption, on December 1, 2000, of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended. Excluding the extraordinary
item and the cumulative effect of the accounting change, the Company's net
income for fiscal 2001 was $3,610 million, a decrease of 34% from fiscal 2000.

The Company's income tax rate was 36.5%, 36% and 38% in fiscal 2001, fiscal
2000 and fiscal 1999, respectively. The tax rate in fiscal 2001 was relatively
unchanged from the prior year. The decrease in fiscal 2000 primarily reflected
reduced U.S. state and local taxes.

Basic earnings per common share decreased 35% to $3.21 in fiscal 2001 and
increased 14% to $4.95 in fiscal 2000. Excluding the extraordinary loss and the
impact of the cumulative effect of an accounting change noted above, fiscal
2001's basic earnings per common share were $3.29. Diluted earnings per common
share decreased 34% to $3.11 in fiscal 2001 and increased 15% to $4.73 in
fiscal 2000. Excluding the extraordinary loss and the impact of the cumulative
effect of an accounting change, fiscal 2001's diluted earnings per common share
were $3.19.

The Company's return on average common shareholders' equity (excluding the
extraordinary loss and the cumulative effect of the accounting change for
fiscal 2001) was 19%, 31% and 33% in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999,
respectively.

At November 30, 2001, the Company had approximately 61,000 employees worldwide,
a decrease of 2% from November 30, 2000. The reduction in staffing levels
reflected the Company's efforts to manage costs in light of the weakened global
economy and reduced business activity.

Business Acquisitions and Disposition.

In fiscal 2001, the Company acquired Quilter Holdings Limited ("Quilter").
Quilter is a well-established U.K.-based investment management business
providing segregated account management and advisory services to private
individuals, pension funds and trusts. The Company's fiscal 2001 results
include the operations of Quilter since March 13, 2001, the date of acquisition.

In fiscal 2000, the Company acquired Ansett Worldwide Aviation Services
("Ansett Worldwide"). Ansett Worldwide is one of the world's leading aircraft
leasing groups, leasing new and used commercial jet aircraft to airlines around
the world. The Company's fiscal 2000 results include the operations of Ansett
Worldwide since April 27, 2000, the date of acquisition.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998, the Company sold its Global Custody
business to The Chase Manhattan Corporation ("Chase"). At that time, the
Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $323 million from the sale. Such gain
included estimates for certain payments and purchase price adjustments which,
under certain circumstances pursuant to the sales agreement, were payable by
the Company to Chase. As a result of the resolution of these




payments and purchase price adjustments during fiscal 2000, the Company
recorded an additional pre-tax gain of $35 million related to the sale of its
Global Custody business.

In fiscal 1999, the Company acquired Morgan Stanley, S.V., S.A. (formerly AB
Asesores), the largest independent financial services firm in Spain. The
Company's fiscal 1999 results include the operations of Morgan Stanley, S.V.,
S.A. since March 25, 1999, the date of acquisition.

Terrorist Attacks.

On September 11, 2001, the U.S. experienced terrorist attacks targeted against
New York City and Washington, D.C. The attacks in New York resulted in the
destruction of the World Trade Center complex, where approximately 3,700 of the
Company's employees were located, and the temporary closing of the debt and
equity financial markets in the U.S. Through the implementation of its business
recovery plans, the Company relocated its displaced employees to other
facilities.

The terrorist attacks had an immediate adverse impact on global economies,
financial markets and certain industries, including the global aviation
industry. These conditions had an adverse impact on the Company's results of
operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, including an asset impairment
charge and higher expenses associated with its aircraft financing activities.
In addition to the immediate impact, there is much uncertainty regarding the
potential long-term impact of these attacks. In the future, fears of global
recession, war and additional acts of terrorism in the aftermath of the
September 11, 2001 attacks may continue to impact global economies and
financial markets.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company recorded costs related to
the terrorist attacks, which were offset by an expected insurance recovery.
These costs and the related expected insurance recovery pertain to write-offs
of leasehold improvements and destroyed technology and telecommunications
equipment in the World Trade Center complex, employee relocation and certain
employee-related expenditures, and other business recovery costs.

Business Segments.

The remainder of "Results of Operations" is presented on a business segment
basis. Substantially all of the operating revenues and operating expenses of
the Company can be directly attributed to its three business segments:
Securities, Investment Management and Credit Services. Certain revenues and
expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion
to their respective revenues or other relevant measures.

The accompanying Credit Services business segment information includes the
operating results of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Credit Corporation ("MSDWCC"),
the Company's provider of mortgage and other consumer lending services. Prior
to fiscal 2001, the Company included MSDWCC's results within its Securities
business segment. In addition, the operating results of the Investment
Management business segment includes certain revenues and expenses associated
with the Company's Investment Consulting Services ("ICS") business. Prior to
fiscal 2001, such revenues and expenses were included within the Company's
Securities business segment. The segment data for all periods presented have
been restated to reflect these changes. Certain reclassifications have been
made to prior-period amounts to conform to the current year's presentation.

Critical Accounting Policies.

The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company
to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies
(see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following may
involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.




Fair Value.  Financial instruments, including derivatives, used in the
Company's trading activities are recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains
and losses are reflected in principal trading revenues. Fair values are based
on listed market prices, where possible. If listed market prices are not
available or if the liquidation of the Company's positions would reasonably be
expected to impact market prices, fair value is determined based on other
relevant factors, including dealer price quotations and price quotations for
similar instruments traded in different markets, including markets located in
different geographic areas. Fair values for certain derivative contracts are
derived from pricing models that consider current market and contractual prices
for the underlying financial instruments or commodities, as well as time value
and yield curve or volatility factors underlying the positions.

Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of
unrealized gains and losses recognized, and the use of different pricing models
or assumptions could produce different financial results. Changes in the fixed
income, equity, foreign exchange and commodity markets will impact the
Company's estimates of fair value in the future, potentially affecting
principal trading revenues. To the extent financial contracts have extended
maturity dates, the Company's estimates of fair value may involve greater
subjectivity due to the lack of transparent market data available upon which to
base modeling assumptions. The illiquid nature of certain securities or debt
instruments (such as certain high-yield debt securities, certain collateralized
mortgage obligations and mortgage-related loan products, bridge financings, and
certain senior secured loans and positions) also requires a high degree of
judgment in determining fair value due to the lack of listed market prices and
the potential impact of the liquidation of the Company's position on market
prices, among other factors.

Transfers of Financial Assets.   The Company engages in securitization
activities in connection with certain of its businesses. Gains and losses from
securitizations are recognized in the consolidated statements of income when
the Company relinquishes control of the transferred financial assets in
accordance with SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities--a replacement of FASB
Statement No. 125" and other related pronouncements. The gain or loss on the
sale of financial assets depends in part on the previous carrying amount of the
assets involved in the transfer, allocated between the assets sold and the
retained interests based upon their respective fair values at the date of sale.

In connection with its Securities business, the Company engages in
securitization transactions to facilitate client needs and as a means of
selling financial assets. The Company recognizes any interests in the
transferred assets and any liabilities incurred in securitization transactions
on its consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value.
Subsequently, changes in the fair value of such interests are recognized in the
consolidated statements of income. The use of different pricing models or
assumptions could produce different financial results.

In connection with its Credit Services business, the Company periodically sells
consumer loans through asset securitizations and continues to service these
loans. The present value of the future net servicing revenues that the Company
estimates it will receive over the term of the securitized loans is recognized
in income as the loans are securitized. A corresponding asset also is recorded
and then amortized as a charge to income over the term of the securitized
loans. The securitization gain or loss involves the Company's best estimates of
key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, payment rates, forward
yield curves and appropriate discount rates. The use of different estimates or
assumptions could produce different financial results.

Allowance for Consumer Loan Losses.  The allowance for consumer loan losses in
the Company's Credit Services business is established through a charge to the
provision for consumer loan losses. Provisions are made to reserve for
estimated losses in outstanding loan balances. The allowance for consumer loan
losses is a significant estimate and is regularly evaluated by the Company for
adequacy by taking into consideration factors such as changes in the nature and
volume of the loan portfolio; trends in actual and forecasted portfolio credit
quality, including delinquency, charge-off and bankruptcy rates; and current
economic conditions that may affect a borrower's ability to pay. The use of
different estimates or assumptions could produce different provisions for
consumer loan losses.




                                  SECURITIES

                             STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                             (dollars in millions)



Securities provides a wide range of financial products, services and investment
advice to individual and institutional investors. Securities business
activities are conducted in the U.S. and throughout the world and include
investment banking, institutional sales and trading, full-service brokerage
services, private equity and other principal investing activities, and aircraft
financing activities. At November 30, 2001, the Company's financial advisors
provided securities and investment services to approximately 5.6 million client
accounts in the U.S. and had client assets of $595 billion. The Company had the
second largest financial advisor sales organization in the U.S. On a global
basis, the Company had 13,690 professional financial advisors at November 30,
2001.

Securities achieved net revenues of $15,914 million and net income of $2,287
million in fiscal 2001, decreases of 20% and 44%, respectively, from fiscal
2000. Securities net income for fiscal 2001 included an extraordinary loss of
$30 million associated with the early extinguishment of certain long-term
borrowings. Securities net income for fiscal 2001 also included a charge of $46
million from the cumulative effect of an accounting change associated with the
Company's adoption of SFAS No. 133 on December 1, 2000. Excluding the
extraordinary




loss and the cumulative effect of the accounting change, Securities net income
for fiscal 2001 was $2,363 million, a decrease of 42% from fiscal 2000. The
decreases in net revenues and net income in fiscal 2001 were primarily
attributable to lower revenues from the Company's investment banking,
institutional sales and trading, and individual securities activities,
partially offset by lower levels of incentive-based compensation expense. The
decrease in net revenues and net income also reflected principal investment
losses in fiscal 2001 as compared with principal investment gains in fiscal
2000, as well as a higher level of expenses associated with the Company's
aircraft financing business. In fiscal 2000, Securities had record net revenues
and net income, which increased 23% and 11%, respectively, from fiscal 1999. In
fiscal 2000, the levels of net revenues and net income in the Company's
Securities business reflected a strong global market for mergers and
acquisitions and securities underwritings, higher principal trading and
commission revenues, higher customer trading volume, and an increased level of
client accounts and asset balances. Fiscal 2000's results reflected increased
costs for incentive-based compensation, as well as increased non-compensation
expenses associated with a higher level of global business activities and
employees. Fiscal 2000's results also were negatively affected by more
difficult economic and market conditions during the latter half of the year,
which reduced the volume of merger and acquisition and underwriting
transactions and contributed to a more difficult trading environment. In fiscal
2000, declines in certain equity markets also resulted in unrealized losses in
the Company's private equity business.

Investment Banking.   Investment banking revenues are derived from the
underwriting of securities offerings and fees from advisory services.
Investment banking revenues were as follows:



Investment banking revenues decreased 31% in fiscal 2001 from the record level
attained in fiscal 2000. Revenues in fiscal 2001 reflected lower revenues from
equity underwriting transactions and merger, acquisition and restructuring
activities, partially offset by higher fixed income underwriting revenues. In
fiscal 2000, the 10% increase in investment banking revenues reflected higher
advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and
increased revenues from underwriting equity securities, partially offset by
lower revenues from underwriting fixed income securities.

Conditions in the worldwide merger and acquisition markets were generally
unfavorable in fiscal 2001. There was $1.7 trillion of transaction activity
announced during calendar year 2001 (according to Thomson Financial), a
decrease of 51% from calendar year 2000's record volume. During calendar year
2001, the Company's volume of announced merger and acquisition transactions was
approximately $461 billion, as compared with approximately $1,100 billion in
the prior year. The decline primarily reflected the difficult global market and
economic conditions that existed during fiscal 2001. In addition, the declines
in the global equity markets reduced the purchasing power of potential
acquirers. Sharp declines in the volume of merger and acquisition transaction
activity were experienced across many industries and geographic locations and
had a negative impact on advisory fees, which decreased 34% in fiscal 2001.
Given current market and economic conditions, it is uncertain at what pace
merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions will occur in future
periods. The 13% increase in advisory fees in fiscal 2000 reflected high
transaction volumes resulting from the strong global market for merger,
acquisition and restructuring activities primarily in the technology, media and
telecommunications sectors.

Equity underwriting revenues decreased 51% in fiscal 2001, primarily reflecting
a significantly lower volume of equity offerings in the global equity markets,
principally in the U.S. and Europe. The decline in new issue volume in fiscal
2001 primarily reflected the difficult conditions in the global equity markets,
particularly in the




technology, media and telecommunications sectors. The decrease was partially
offset by a record level of revenues from underwriting convertible securities.
However, given current economic and market conditions, it is uncertain at what
pace equity underwriting transactions will occur in future periods. Equity
underwriting revenues increased 37% in fiscal 2000, reflecting the Company's
strong global market share. In fiscal 2000, equity underwriting revenues also
benefited from a high volume of equity issuances, particularly in the
technology, telecommunications and energy sectors. However, new issue volume
declined toward the end of fiscal 2000 due to difficult conditions in the
global financial markets, including reduced investor confidence.

Fixed income underwriting revenues increased 9% in fiscal 2001. The volume of
fixed income underwriting transactions reflected a lower interest rate
environment in both the U.S. and Europe, resulting in issuers taking advantage
of historically low yields rendered by the Fed's and the ECB's interest rate
actions. The volume of fixed income underwriting transactions was generally
strong throughout fiscal 2001, particularly in investment grade products and
structured credit transactions. Revenues from fixed income underwriting
decreased 21% in fiscal 2000, as the volume of fixed income underwriting
transactions was adversely affected by a higher interest rate environment in
both the U.S. and Europe, resulting in higher borrowing costs. In fiscal 2000,
revenues from underwriting global high-yield fixed income securities declined
significantly, reflecting difficult conditions in this market sector. In
addition, investor demand for these securities declined due to heightened
concerns over credit quality. Revenues from underwriting derivative fixed
income products also declined. These decreases were partially offset by higher
revenues from securitized debt issuances, resulting from an increased volume of
asset-backed transactions.

Principal Transactions.  Principal transactions include revenues from
customers' purchases and sales of securities in which the Company acts as
principal and gains and losses on the Company's securities positions. Decisions
relating to principal transactions in securities are based on an overall review
of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of
transactions. This review includes an assessment of the potential gain or loss
associated with a trade, including any associated commissions, and the interest
income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company's positions.
The Company also engages in proprietary trading activities for its own account.

Principal transaction trading revenues were as follows:



Principal transaction trading revenues decreased 25% in fiscal 2001, primarily
reflecting lower equity and fixed income trading revenues, partially offset by
higher commodity and foreign exchange trading revenues. Principal transaction
trading revenues increased 27% in fiscal 2000, primarily reflecting higher
equity and commodity trading revenues, partially offset by a decline in fixed
income and foreign exchange trading revenues.

Equity trading revenues decreased 34% in fiscal 2001, primarily reflecting
lower revenues from trading cash and derivative equity products. Despite higher
customer trading volumes in both listed and over-the-counter securities,
conditions in the equity markets were generally less favorable in comparison
with fiscal 2000, primarily in the U.S. and Europe. In particular, the level of
market volatility was significantly lower in fiscal 2001 as compared with
fiscal 2000, especially in the technology sector. The decline in equity trading
revenues also reflected lower new issue volume, lower levels of cash flows into
equity mutual funds, increased margin pressure resulting from the
decimalization of the quoted price of certain U.S. equity securities and lower




revenues from certain proprietary trading activities. In fiscal 2000, equity
trading revenues increased 54% to a record level, reflecting higher revenues
from both cash and derivative equity products. Higher revenues from trading in
equity cash products were primarily driven by significantly increased levels of
customer trading volumes and volatility in both over-the-counter and listed
securities, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. Revenues from equity
derivative products benefited from these conditions as well. Higher revenues
from certain proprietary trading activities also contributed significantly to
the increase in equity trading revenues.

Fixed income trading revenues decreased 24% in fiscal 2001. The decrease
primarily reflected lower revenues from trading global high-yield fixed income
products, including both debt and loan instruments. The difficult market and
economic conditions that existed during fiscal 2001 adversely affected certain
high-yield issuers, which resulted in markdowns of certain positions. Lower
revenues from swaps trading also contributed to the decrease. These declines
were partially offset by higher revenues from trading investment grade and
structured fixed income products. In fiscal 2000, fixed income trading revenues
decreased 9%, primarily reflecting lower revenues from global high-yield and
investment grade fixed income securities. Trading revenues from global
high-yield fixed income securities decreased significantly due to lighter
trading activity and decreased market liquidity, which resulted in markdowns of
certain high-yield positions. During fiscal 2000, several high-yield issuers
experienced financial difficulties, triggering an increased number of credit
downgrades and defaults, particularly in the telecommunications sector.
Revenues from investment grade fixed income securities also declined,
reflecting more difficult market conditions, which resulted in reduced
liquidity and widening credit spreads. These decreases were partially offset by
higher revenues from trading derivative and government agency products.

Foreign exchange revenues increased 7% in fiscal 2001, reflecting higher levels
of customer trading volumes and volatility in the foreign exchange markets in
both the U.S. and Europe. The higher level of volatility in the foreign
exchange markets primarily reflected the Fed's interest rate actions during
fiscal 2001 and the euro's rally relative to the U.S. dollar during the first
half of fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2000, foreign exchange revenues decreased 12%,
reflecting lower levels of trading volumes and volatility in the global foreign
exchange markets. Trading volumes were negatively affected by the exit of
certain hedge funds from the foreign exchange market and by reduced liquidity
in the Japanese yen and euro markets.

Commodity trading revenues increased 21% to a record level in fiscal 2001. The
increase was primarily driven by higher revenues from electricity and natural
gas trading, which benefited from periods of heightened price volatility. The
volatility in electricity and natural gas prices primarily resulted from
periodic regional energy shortages, as well as fluctuations in the level of
demand due to changing weather conditions. Higher revenues from metals trading
also contributed to the increase, as these markets rallied after September 11,
2001. Commodity trading revenues rose 34% in fiscal 2000, primarily driven by
higher revenues from certain energy-related products, including electricity,
natural gas and crude oil. Trading revenues from energy-related products
benefited from periods of rising prices and increased volatility across the
entire energy sector. Such conditions were primarily attributable to low
inventory levels, strong demand and concerns regarding the adequacy of
production levels.

Principal transaction investment losses aggregating $311 million were
recognized in fiscal 2001 as compared with gains of $133 million in fiscal
2000. Fiscal 2001's results included unrealized losses in the Company's private
equity portfolio and certain other principal investments, primarily reflecting
difficult market conditions in the technology and telecommunications sectors.
Fiscal 2000's revenues included realized gains from certain of the Company's
private equity investments, including Commerce One, Inc. and Equant N.V., as
well as gains from the Company's other principal investment activities. These
gains were partially offset by unrealized losses in the private equity
business, reflecting difficult market conditions in the technology,
telecommunications and Internet sectors in the latter half of the fiscal year.

Securities purchased in principal investment transactions generally are held
for appreciation and are not readily marketable. It is not possible to
determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since,




among other factors, such investments are generally subject to sales
restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the eventual realizable value of the
investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over
time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally
or in relation to specific transactions.

Commissions.   Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in
listed and over-the-counter equity securities and sales of mutual funds,
futures, insurance products and options. Commission revenues decreased 14% in
fiscal 2001, primarily due to lower commission revenues in the U.S., reflecting
a significant decline in the level of retail investor participation in the
equity markets as compared with the prior year. Lower institutional commissions
from markets in Japan and elsewhere in the Far East also contributed to the
decrease. The decline in fiscal 2001 was partially offset by higher
institutional commissions from European markets, benefiting from higher trading
volumes, and higher revenues associated with exchange traded funds. Commission
revenues increased 31% in fiscal 2000, primarily reflecting higher revenues
from equity cash products from markets in Europe, the U.S. and the Far East.
Revenues from European markets benefited from a significant increase in market
volumes, particularly in the technology and telecommunications sectors. In the
U.S., trading volumes on the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ increased
to record levels. Commission revenues from markets in Japan and elsewhere in
the Far East increased as improved economic prospects within the region during
the first half of fiscal 2000 increased investor interest and led to higher
transaction volumes. In fiscal 2000, commission revenues also benefited from
higher sales of mutual funds and growth in the number of the Company's
financial advisors.

Through Morgan Stanley Choice/SM/, a service and technology platform available
to individual investors, the Company provides its individual investor clients
with the choice of self-directed investing online; a traditional full-service
brokerage relationship through a financial advisor; or some combination of
both. Morgan Stanley Choice provides a range of pricing options, including
fee-based pricing. As a result, revenues recorded within the "Commissions" and
"Asset management, distribution and administration fees" income statement
categories are affected by the number of the Company's clients electing a
fee-based pricing arrangement.

Net Interest.   Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a
function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including
financial instruments owned, reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements,
trading strategies associated with the Company's institutional securities
business, customer margin loans and the prevailing level, term structure and
volatility of interest rates. Interest and dividend revenues and interest
expense are integral components of trading activities. In assessing the
profitability of trading activities, the Company views net interest,
commissions and principal trading revenues in the aggregate. In addition,
decisions relating to principal transactions in securities are based on an
overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction
or series of transactions. This review includes an assessment of the potential
gain or loss associated with a trade, including any associated commissions, and
the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the
Company's positions. Reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and
securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions may be entered into with
different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a
spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or
securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase
agreements or securities loaned transactions. Net interest revenues increased
31% in fiscal 2001 and 61% in fiscal 2000, primarily reflecting the level and
mix of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities (including
liabilities associated with the Company's aircraft financing activities) during
the respective periods as well as certain trading strategies utilized in the
Company's institutional securities business. The increase in fiscal 2001 was
primarily due to certain trading strategies utilized in the Company's
institutional securities business, including higher net interest revenues from
the Company's repurchase financing activities, which reflected a favorable
interest rate environment. Higher average inventory balances of U.S. government
and agency securities also contributed to the increase in net interest
revenues. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in net interest
revenues from brokerage services provided to both institutional and individual
customers, including a decrease in the level of customer margin loans. In
fiscal 2000, higher net interest revenues from brokerage services provided to
institutional and individual customers, including an increase in the level of
customer margin loans, had a positive impact on net interest revenues.




Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.  Asset management,
distribution and administration fees include revenues from asset management
services, including fees for promoting and distributing mutual funds ("12b-1
fees") and fees for investment management services provided to segregated
customer accounts pursuant to various contractual arrangements in connection
with the Company's ICS business. The Company receives 12b-1 fees for services
it provides in promoting and distributing certain open-ended mutual funds.
These fees are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or
average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the
overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision. Asset
management, distribution and administration fees also include revenues from
individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement under the Morgan
Stanley Choice service and technology platform.

Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 4% in fiscal
2001 and increased 46% in fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2001, the decrease was
primarily attributable to lower 12b-1 fees from promoting and distributing
mutual funds to individual investors and lower fee revenue from Morgan Stanley
Choice accounts. Both decreases reflected lower levels of assets under
management and lower client balances subject to Morgan Stanley Choice fees. In
fiscal 2001, client asset balances declined to $595 billion at November 30,
2001 from $662 billion at November 30, 2000. The increase in asset management,
distribution and administration fees in fiscal 2000 was primarily attributable
to higher 12b-1 fees from promoting and distributing mutual funds to individual
investors through the Company's financial advisors. In fiscal 2000, higher
revenues from investment management services associated with the ICS business
and higher client asset balances, which rose to $662 billion at November 30,
2000 from $595 billion at November 30, 1999, also contributed to the increase.

Other.  Other revenues primarily consist of net rental and other revenues
associated with the Company's aircraft financing business, as well as account
fees and other miscellaneous service fees associated with the Company's
individual securities activities.

Other revenues increased 6% in fiscal 2001. The increase was primarily
attributable to higher revenues from the Company's aircraft financing business,
as fiscal 2001 included a full year of revenues related to Ansett Worldwide,
which was acquired in fiscal 2000. The increase was partially offset by lower
miscellaneous fee revenues in the individual securities business. Other
revenues increased 107% in fiscal 2000. The increase primarily related to
higher net rental and other revenues associated with Ansett Worldwide, which
the Company acquired in April 2000.

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had an adverse impact on the global
aviation industry. As a result, the Company's aircraft financing business
experienced a decline in revenues and an increase in non-interest expenses in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. While there is much uncertainty regarding
the potential long-term impact of the terrorist attacks, the Company currently
believes that the conditions caused by the attacks could continue to have an
adverse impact on the results of its aircraft financing business (see
"Terrorist Attacks" and "Non-Interest Expenses" herein).

Non-Interest Expenses.   Fiscal 2001's total non-interest expenses decreased 9%
to $12,284 million. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 16%,
principally reflecting lower incentive-based compensation due to lower levels
of revenues and earnings. Fiscal 2001's compensation and benefits expense
included severance and other related costs associated with reduced employment
levels attributable to the Company's focus on managing costs. Excluding
compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 6% to $4,357
million. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 18%, primarily due to
increased office space and rental costs in New York City and London, partially
offset by lower rent expense as a result of the loss of the World Trade Center
complex on September 11, 2001 (see "Terrorist Attacks" herein). Brokerage,
clearing and exchange fees increased 17%, primarily reflecting higher brokerage
and clearing costs due to increased institutional global securities trading
volume, particularly in Europe and the U.S. Information processing and
communications expense increased 7%, primarily due to increased costs
associated with the Company's information technology infrastructure, including
data processing and market data services. Marketing and business development
expense decreased 25%, primarily reflecting lower advertising expenses in both
the institutional and individual securities businesses. A lower level of travel
and entertainment costs, which reflected the overall decline in business




activity in the global financial markets, also contributed to the decrease.
Professional services expense increased 3%, as higher consulting costs in the
individual securities business were partially offset by a decrease in
consulting costs in the institutional securities business. Other expense
increased 27%, primarily reflecting significantly higher costs associated with
the Company's aircraft financing business. Such costs include a charge of $87
million for the impairment of certain aircraft assets, as well as higher
repossession, maintenance and other aircraft-related costs. Many of these
increased costs were associated with the difficult conditions existing in the
aviation industry in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on September 11,
2001 (see "Terrorist Attacks" herein). The amortization of goodwill associated
with the Company's acquisition of Quilter and costs associated with the closure
of certain branch locations, including those associated with the Japanese
retail business, also contributed to the increase. These increases were
partially offset by lower costs for certain consumption taxes.

Fiscal 2000's total non-interest expenses increased 32% to $13,560 million.
Compensation and benefits expense increased 32%, reflecting increased incentive
compensation based on record fiscal 2000 revenues and earnings, incremental
costs related to the Company's focus on increasing the number of its financial
advisors and increased competitive pressures in certain institutional
businesses. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses
increased 30% to $4,096 million. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 26%,
primarily due to additional rent associated with new U.S. branch locations and
increased office space in New York City and certain other locations. Brokerage,
clearing and exchange fees increased 12%, primarily due to higher brokerage
costs related to increased global trading volume, particularly in the U.S. and
Europe. Brokerage costs associated with the business activities of Morgan
Stanley, S.V., S.A., which was acquired by the Company in March 1999, also
contributed to the increase. Information processing and communications expense
increased 31%, primarily due to increased costs associated with the Company's
information technology infrastructure, including data processing, market data
services and telecommunications costs for network equipment associated with
increased business activity and higher employment levels. These increases were
partially offset by the exclusion of certain Year 2000 costs from fiscal 2000's
results. Marketing and business development expense increased 39%, primarily
due to increased travel and entertainment costs associated with a high level of
business activity in the global financial markets, new advertising campaigns
and additional promotional expenses in the individual securities business.
Professional services expense increased 40%, primarily reflecting higher
consulting costs associated with certain strategic initiatives, including
e-commerce. The increase also reflected higher costs for employment fees and
temporary staffing due to increased global business activity. Other expense
increased 25%, reflecting a higher level of business activity on various
operating expenses. Higher costs associated with the Company's aircraft
financing business (including Ansett Worldwide, which the Company acquired in
April 2000) and amortization of goodwill associated with the Company's
acquisition of Morgan Stanley, S.V., S.A. also contributed to the increase.




                             INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT

                             STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                             (dollars in millions)



Investment Management ranks among the top global active asset managers and
provides a wide range of investment advisory products through numerous
distribution channels. The Company offers a wide variety of investment products
to individual, institutional and intermediary clients. The investment products
range from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income
funds and alternative investments in developed and emerging markets. Through
various service companies, distribution subsidiaries and investment advisors,
the Company offers clients various investment styles, including value, growth
and blended; active and passive management; and diversified and concentrated
portfolios. In fiscal 2001, Investment Management's assets under management or
supervision decreased $41 billion to $459 billion at November 30, 2001,
reflecting market value declines, the sale of $6 billion in customer assets and
lower Unit Investment Trust sales.

Investment Management's net revenues for fiscal 2001 were $2,423 million, a
decrease of 11% from fiscal 2000. Investment Management's net income for fiscal
2001 was $545 million, a decrease of 19% from fiscal 2000. Net income for
fiscal 2000 included a net gain of $21 million from the sale of the Company's
Global Custody business (see "Business Acquisitions and Disposition" herein).
Excluding fiscal 2000's net gain on the sale of business, net income decreased
17% in fiscal 2001. The decrease in net revenues and net income in fiscal 2001
primarily reflected lower fee-based revenues due to a less favorable asset mix
and lower average assets under management or supervision. Investment banking
revenues also decreased, resulting from lower Unit Investment Trust sales.
These revenue declines were partially offset by the favorable impact of expense
management




initiatives, including lower incentive-based compensation expense. In fiscal
2000, Investment Management achieved record net revenues of $2,712 million, an
increase of 19% from fiscal 1999. Investment Management's net income for fiscal
2000 was a record $677 million, an increase of 48% from fiscal 1999. Net income
for fiscal 2000 included the $21 million net gain on the sale of business noted
above. Excluding the net gain on the sale of business, net income increased 43%
from fiscal 1999. The increase in net income in fiscal 2000 primarily reflected
higher asset management, distribution and administration fees resulting from
the accumulation and management of customer assets and a more favorable asset
mix, partially offset by higher incentive-based compensation expense.

Investment Banking.  Investment Management primarily generates investment
banking revenues from the underwriting of Unit Investment Trust products. In
fiscal 2001, investment banking revenues decreased 58% to $53 million. The
decrease primarily relates to a lower volume of Unit Investment Trust sales.
Unit Investment Trust sales volume declined 58% to $6.9 billion in fiscal 2001.
In fiscal 2000, investment banking revenues increased 37% to $127 million,
primarily associated with higher levels of Unit Investment Trust sales volumes,
which rose 35% to a record $16.6 billion. The increase was driven by demand for
Internet and telecommunications investment trusts. The Company does not expect
Unit Investment Trust sales volumes and associated investment banking revenues
to return to the levels achieved in fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999.

Principal Transactions.  Investment Management's principal transaction revenues
are primarily generated from net gains and losses on capital investments in
certain of the Company's funds and other investments.

Principal transaction investment losses aggregating $5 million were recognized
in fiscal 2001 as compared with revenues aggregating $60 million in fiscal
2000. The decline in revenues reflected the difficult market conditions that
existed during fiscal 2001. In addition, during fiscal 2001 the Company had a
lower level of capital investments in certain of its funds as compared with the
prior year.

Commissions.  Investment Management primarily generates commission revenues
from dealer and distribution concessions on sales of certain funds as well as
certain allocated commission revenues.

Commission revenues of $37 million decreased 8% in fiscal 2001 and increased
74% to $40 million in fiscal 2000. In both periods, the fluctuations were
associated with changes in the level of sales volume of certain Van Kampen
products and allocated commission revenues.

Net Interest.  Investment Management generates net interest revenues from
certain investment positions and from allocated interest revenues and expenses.

Net interest revenue decreased 16% to $58 million in fiscal 2001, primarily due
to a lower level of allocated net interest revenues. In fiscal 2000, net
interest revenue increased 25% to $69 million, reflecting higher net revenues
from certain investment positions, as well as higher allocated net interest
revenues.

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.  Asset management,
distribution and administration fees primarily include revenues from the
management and administration of assets. These fees arise from investment
management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to
various contractual arrangements. Generally, the Company receives fees
primarily based upon mutual fund average net assets or quarterly assets for
other vehicles.





The Company's customer assets under management or supervision at fiscal
year-end were as follows:


- --------
(1)Revenues and expenses associated with certain assets are included in the
   Company's Securities segment.

Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 6% in fiscal
2001 and increased 15% in fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2001, the decrease primarily
reflected a less favorable asset mix, primarily due to a shift from equity
products to money market products, which typically generate lower management
fees. The decrease also reflected a lower level of customer assets under
management or supervision as compared with fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2000, the
increase in revenues primarily reflected higher levels of management fees as
well as other revenues resulting from a higher level of assets under management
or supervision. The increase in fiscal 2000 also reflected a more favorable
asset mix, primarily due to a shift in asset mix to a greater percentage of
equity products, which typically generate higher management fees.

As of November 30, 2001, customer assets under management or supervision
decreased $41 billion from fiscal year-end 2000. The decrease largely reflected
a decline in the market value of equity assets, as well as the sale of $6
billion of assets. The decline also was attributable to lower net flows of
customer assets, as redemptions were marginally higher than new sales in fiscal
2001. As of November 30, 2000, assets under management or supervision increased
$30 billion from fiscal year-end 1999. In fiscal 2000, virtually all of the
increase in assets under management or supervision was attributable to net
inflows of customer assets. The increases in assets under management or
supervision due to market appreciation in the first three quarters of fiscal
2000 were offset by market depreciation during the fourth quarter of fiscal
2000. This market depreciation reflected the declines in many global financial
markets that occurred during that period.

Non-Interest Expenses.  Fiscal 2001's total non-interest expenses decreased 7%
to $1,496 million, partially reflecting the favorable impact of synergies
resulting from integration initiatives within Investment Management's operating
platforms. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 9%, reflecting lower
incentive-based compensation costs due to Investment Management's lower level
of revenues and earnings. Fiscal 2001's compensation and benefits expense
included severance and other related costs associated with reduced employment
levels attributable to the Company's focus on managing costs. Excluding
compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 6% to $753
million. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 6%, primarily due to an
increase in space and rental costs. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees
increased 4%, primarily due to a higher level of deferred commission
amortization associated with the sale of




certain funds, partially offset by lower commission expense due to lower sales
of closed-end funds through the non-proprietary distribution channel.
Information processing and communications expense increased 18%, primarily due
to increased data processing costs and the write-off of certain capitalized
software. Marketing and business development expense decreased 22%, primarily
driven by lower advertising costs. Professional services expense decreased 1%,
primarily reflecting lower consulting costs. Other expense decreased 21%,
primarily due to a reduction in various operating expenses in an effort to
reduce discretionary spending, as well as a lower level of allocated expenses.

Fiscal 2000's total non-interest expenses increased 8% to $1,612 million.
Compensation and benefits expense increased 17%, reflecting higher
incentive-based compensation costs due to Investment Management's higher level
of revenues and earnings. Excluding compensation and benefits expense,
non-interest expenses decreased 1% to $798 million. Occupancy and equipment
expense decreased 5%, primarily due to lower depreciation expense on certain
data processing equipment. These decreases were partially offset by higher
occupancy costs at certain office locations. Brokerage, clearing and exchange
fees increased 1%, primarily due to a higher level of deferred commission
amortization, offset by lower sales of closed-end funds through the
non-proprietary distribution channel. Information processing and communications
expense decreased 11%, primarily due to lower costs incurred in fiscal 2000
related to outside data processing and computer software costs. Marketing and
business development expense increased 26%, primarily due to higher promotional
and distribution costs for certain mutual funds. Professional services expense
decreased 21%, reflecting higher consulting costs in fiscal 1999 related to the
Company's preparation for the Year 2000, partially offset by higher consulting
costs in fiscal 2000 for various e-commerce initiatives. Other expense
increased 1%, primarily due to new and increased business activity.





                                CREDIT SERVICES

                             STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                             (dollars in millions)



The Company's Credit Services business is operated by Discover Financial
Services, a business unit which issues quality consumer credit products and
operates Discover Business Services, a proprietary network of merchant and cash
access locations in the U.S. The credit cards issued by the Company include the
Discover Classic Card, the Discover Gold Card, the Discover Platinum Card, the
Morgan Stanley Card and other proprietary general purpose credit cards. Credit
Services financial data reflect the Company's fiscal 2001 adoption of Emerging
Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 00-22, "Accounting for 'Points' and
Certain Other Time-Based or Volume-Based Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for
Free Products or Services to Be Delivered in the Future." Prior to the adoption
of EITF Issue No. 00-22, the Company recorded its Cashback Bonus(R) award
program as a marketing and business development expense. In accordance with
EITF Issue No. 00-22, such incentives are to be considered a reduction in
revenues and are recorded in merchant and cardmember fees. Credit Services data
for all periods presented have been restated to reflect this change.

In fiscal 2001, Credit Services net revenues were $3,559 million, an increase
of 2% from fiscal 2000. Credit Services net income was $689 million, a decrease
of 5% from fiscal 2000. Net income for fiscal 2001 included a charge of $13
million from the cumulative effect of an accounting change associated with the
Company's adoption of SFAS No. 133 on December 1, 2000. Excluding the
cumulative effect of the accounting change for fiscal 2001, net income
decreased 3%. The increase in net revenues was primarily attributable to
increased




servicing fees, partially offset by lower net credit income due to a higher
provision for consumer loan losses and lower net interest income. The increase
also was attributable to higher merchant fees, which reflected modest managed
general purpose credit card loan growth from record sales and transaction
volumes. The higher provision for consumer loan losses reflected the slowdown
in the U.S. economy and a rise in personal bankruptcy filings. The decrease in
net income was due to higher non-interest expenses, partially offset by higher
net revenues.

In fiscal 2000, Credit Services achieved record net income of $725 million, an
increase of 7% from fiscal 1999. The increase reflected higher merchant and
cardmember fees, servicing fees and net interest income, reflecting overall
growth of the business, including higher levels of transaction volume and
average managed general purpose credit card loans. The increase in net income
was partially offset by a higher provision for consumer loan losses and higher
non-interest expenses.

Credit Services statistical data were as follows:



The higher level of managed general purpose credit card loans at November 30,
2001 and November 30, 2000 was primarily attributable to growth in the
Company's Discover Platinum Card.

Merchant and Cardmember Fees.  Merchant and cardmember fees include revenues
from fees charged to merchants on credit card sales, as well as charges to
cardmembers for late payment fees, overlimit fees, insurance fees and cash
advance fees, net of cardmember rewards. Cardmember rewards include the
Cashback Bonus award program, pursuant to which the Company pays Discover
Classic Card, Discover Platinum Card and Morgan Stanley Card cardmembers
electing this feature a percentage of their purchase amounts ranging up to 1%
based upon a cardmember's annual level and type of purchases.

Merchant and cardmember fees increased 2% to $1,345 million during fiscal 2001
and 23% to $1,323 million during fiscal 2000. The increase in fiscal 2001 was
due to higher merchant discount revenue associated with record levels of sales
and transaction volumes, coupled with an increase in the average merchant
discount rate, partially offset by higher cardmember rewards incentives and
lower net overlimit fees. Higher cardmember rewards incentives were due to
record levels of sales volume. The decline in overlimit fees reflected a higher
level of charge-offs of such fees. In fiscal 2000, the increase in merchant and
cardmember fees was primarily due to higher merchant discount revenue and late
payment fees, partially offset by higher cardmember rewards incentives. The
increase in merchant discount revenues and cardmember rewards incentives was
primarily due to a higher level of sales volume. The increase in merchant
discount revenues also reflected an increase in the average merchant discount
rate. The increase in late payment fees in fiscal 2000 was primarily due to a
fee increase introduced during April 1999, coupled with an increase in the
number of late fee occurrences, reflecting higher levels of transaction volume
and general purpose credit card loans subject to such fees.

Servicing Fees.  Servicing fees are revenues derived from consumer loans that
have been sold to investors through asset securitizations. Cash flows from the
interest yield and cardmember fees generated by securitized loans are used to
pay investors in these loans a predetermined fixed or floating rate of return
on their investment, to reimburse investors for losses of principal resulting
from charged-off loans and to pay the Company a fee for servicing the loans.
Any excess cash flows remaining are paid to the Company. The servicing fees and
excess net




cash flows paid to the Company are reported as servicing fees in the
consolidated statements of income. The sale of consumer loans through asset
securitizations, therefore, has the effect of converting portions of net credit
income and fee income to servicing fees. The Company completed credit card
asset securitizations of $7.3 billion in fiscal 2001 and $9.8 billion in fiscal
2000. The credit card asset securitization transactions completed in fiscal
2001 have expected maturities ranging from approximately three to seven years
from the date of issuance.

The table below presents the components of servicing fees:



Servicing fees are affected by the level of securitized loans, the spread
between the interest yield on the securitized loans and the yield paid to the
investors, the rate of credit losses on securitized loans and the level of
cardmember fees earned from securitized loans. Servicing fees increased 31% in
fiscal 2001 and 21% in fiscal 2000. The increases in both fiscal 2001 and
fiscal 2000 were due to a higher level of net interest cash flows and increased
cardmember fee revenue, primarily due to a higher level of average securitized
general purpose credit card loans. In both periods, these increases were
partially offset by higher credit losses. In fiscal 2001, the increase in
credit losses was primarily due to a higher level of average securitized
general purpose credit card loans, coupled with a higher rate of charge-offs
related to the securitized portfolio. In fiscal 2000, the increase in credit
losses was primarily due to a higher level of average securitized general
purpose credit card loans, partially offset by a lower rate of charge-offs
related to the securitized portfolio. Net securitization gains on general
purpose credit card loans, included in servicing fees, were $70 million in
fiscal 2001 and $80 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease primarily reflected a
lower level of asset securitization transactions in fiscal 2001 as compared
with fiscal 2000, partially offset by modifications to certain assumptions in
the gain calculations.

Net Interest Income.  Net interest income represents the difference between
interest revenue derived from Credit Services consumer loans and short-term
investment assets and interest expense incurred to finance those loans and
assets. Credit Services assets, consisting primarily of consumer loans,
currently earn interest revenue at both fixed rates and market-indexed variable
rates. The Company incurs interest expense at fixed and floating rates.
Interest expense also includes the effects of any interest rate contracts
entered into by the Company as part of its interest rate risk management
program. This program is designed to reduce the volatility of earnings
resulting from changes in interest rates by having a financing portfolio that
reflects the existing repricing schedules of consumer loans as well as the
Company's right, with notice to cardmembers, to reprice certain fixed rate
consumer loans to a new interest rate in the future.

Net interest income decreased 11% in fiscal 2001 and increased 9% in fiscal
2000. The decrease in fiscal 2001 was primarily due to lower interest revenue
attributable to lower levels of average general purpose credit card loans and a
lower yield on these loans, partially offset by a decline in interest expense.
The decrease in the level of average general purpose credit card loans was due
to a higher level of securitized credit card loans, partially offset by a
higher level of sales volume. The lower yield on general purpose credit card
loans was primarily due to lower interest rates offered to new cardmembers and
certain existing cardmembers, as well as higher charge-offs. The decrease in
the yield was partially offset by the Company's repricing of certain credit
card receivables. The decrease in interest expense was primarily due to a lower
level of interest bearing liabilities, coupled with a decrease in the Company's
average cost of borrowings, which reflected the Fed's aggressive interest rate
easing




campaign during fiscal 2001. The Company's average cost of borrowings was 6.26%
for fiscal 2001 as compared with 6.50% for fiscal 2000. The increase in net
interest income in fiscal 2000 was primarily due to higher average levels of
general purpose credit card loans, partially offset by a lower yield on these
loans and increased financing costs incurred by the Company. The increase in
average general purpose credit card loans was due to higher levels of sales and
balance transfer volume and promotional programs. The lower yield was primarily
due to lower interest rates offered to new cardmembers and certain existing
cardmembers, partially offset by the Company's repricing of certain credit card
receivables. The lower yield also reflected an increase in general purpose
credit card loans from balance transfers and from promotional purchases, which
generally are offered at lower interest rates for an introductory period. The
increase in interest expense in fiscal 2000 was due to a higher level of
interest bearing liabilities, coupled with an increase in the Company's average
cost of borrowings, reflecting interest rate increases made by the Fed in
fiscal 1999 and the first half of fiscal 2000. The Company's average cost of
borrowings was 6.50% for fiscal 2000 as compared with 5.82% for fiscal 1999.

The following tables present analyses of Credit Services average balance sheets
and interest rates in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999 and changes in
net interest income during those fiscal years:

Average Balance Sheet Analysis.


- --------
(1)Net interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of total
   interest earning assets.
(2)Interest rate spread represents the difference between the rate on total
   interest earning assets and the rate on total interest bearing liabilities.
(3)Certain prior-year information has been reclassified to conform to the
   current year's presentation.




Rate/Volume Analysis.



The supplemental table below provides average managed loan balance and rate
information, which takes into account both owned and securitized loans:

Supplemental Average Managed Loan Information.


- --------
(1)Certain prior-year information has been reclassified to conform to the
   current year's presentation.

Provision for Consumer Loan Losses.   The provision for consumer loan losses is
the amount necessary to establish the allowance for loan losses at a level that
the Company believes is adequate to absorb estimated losses in its consumer
loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. The Company's allowance for loan
losses is regularly evaluated by management for adequacy and was $847 million
at November 30, 2001 and $783 million at November 30, 2000.

The provision for consumer loan losses, which is affected by net charge-offs,
loan volume and changes in the amount of consumer loans estimated to be
uncollectable, increased 30% and 54% in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000,
respectively. The increase in fiscal 2001 was due to higher net charge-off
rates, partially offset by lower levels of average general purpose credit card
loans. In addition, in fiscal 2001 the Company increased the allowance for loan
losses in excess of the charge-off rate to reflect the impact of the difficult
economic environment on the Company's credit card portfolio. The increase in
fiscal 2000 was primarily due to higher levels of average general purpose
credit card loans, partially offset by a lower net charge-off rate.




General purpose credit card loans are considered delinquent when interest or
principal payments become 30 days past due. General purpose credit card loans
are charged off at the end of the month during which an account becomes 180
days past due, except in the case of bankruptcies and fraudulent transactions,
where loans are charged off earlier. Loan delinquencies and charge-offs are
primarily affected by changes in economic conditions and may vary throughout
the year due to seasonal consumer spending and payment behaviors.

During fiscal 2001, net charge-offs in both the owned and managed portfolios
increased as compared with fiscal 2000. In the U.S., the increase in
unemployment, reduced overtime and the rising debt service burden on borrowers,
coupled with the seasoning of the Company's general purpose credit card loan
portfolio and a high level of national bankruptcy filings, contributed to the
higher net charge-off rate. In addition, the Company's delinquency rates in
both the greater than 30-day and 90-day categories increased in fiscal 2001
from fiscal 2000. If these conditions continue to persist, the rate of net
charge-offs may be higher in future periods.

The Company's future charge-off rates and credit quality are subject to
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from what
has been discussed above. Factors that influence the provision for consumer
loan losses include the level and direction of general purpose credit card loan
delinquencies and charge-offs, changes in consumer spending and payment
behaviors, bankruptcy trends, the seasoning of the Company's general purpose
credit card loan portfolio, interest rate movements and their impact on
consumer behavior, and the rate and magnitude of changes in the Company's
general purpose credit card loan portfolio, including the overall mix of
accounts, products and loan balances within the portfolio.

The following table presents delinquency and net charge-off rates with
supplemental managed general purpose credit card loan information:

Asset Quality.




Non-Interest Expenses.   Total non-interest expenses increased 4% to $2,432
million in fiscal 2001 and increased 16% to $2,336 million in fiscal 2000.
Increased business activity related to the Discover Platinum Card contributed
to the increase in non-interest expenses in both fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000.

Employee compensation and benefits expense increased 10% in fiscal 2001 and 19%
in fiscal 2000. The increase in fiscal 2001 was primarily due to higher costs
associated with increased employment levels resulting from higher transaction
volume and collection activities. The increase in fiscal 2000 was due to higher
domestic and international compensation costs, reflecting increased employment
levels associated with higher levels of business activity and transaction
volume.

Occupancy and equipment expense increased 15% in fiscal 2001 and 14% in fiscal
2000. The increases in both fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 were due primarily to
higher occupancy costs associated with increased office space, including new
transaction processing centers.





Information processing and communications expense increased 12% in fiscal 2001
and 5% in fiscal 2000. The increase in fiscal 2001 was due to higher
volume-related external data processing costs as well as higher depreciation
expense associated with equipment at transaction processing facilities. The
increase in fiscal 2000 was primarily due to an increase in volume-related
external data processing costs associated with the Morgan Stanley Card in the
U.K., partially offset by the termination of an external transaction processing
contract in fiscal 1999.

Marketing and business development expense decreased 13% in fiscal 2001 and
increased 19% in fiscal 2000. Marketing and business development expense
decreased in fiscal 2001 due to lower marketing and advertising expense,
including domestic and international direct mailing costs. The increase in
fiscal 2000 was primarily due to increased advertising and direct mailing costs
associated with both domestic and international operations.

Professional services expense increased 9% in fiscal 2001 and decreased 3% in
fiscal 2000. The increase in fiscal 2001 was primarily due to increased costs
associated with enhanced credit and collection strategies, as well as higher
consulting costs. The decrease in fiscal 2000 reflected the exclusion of Year
2000 consulting costs from fiscal 2000's results.

Other expense increased 14% in fiscal 2001 and 37% in fiscal 2000. In fiscal
2001, the increase primarily reflected increases in certain operating expenses
due to higher levels of transaction volume, business activity and a higher
level of allocated costs, partially offset by a decline in inquiry fees
resulting from fewer new account applications. In fiscal 2000, the increase was
primarily due to increases in certain domestic and international operating
expenses due to higher levels of transaction volume and business activity.

Seasonal Factors.  The credit card lending activities of Credit Services are
affected by seasonal patterns of retail purchasing. Historically, a substantial
percentage of general purpose credit card loan growth occurs in the fourth
calendar quarter, followed by a flattening or decline of these loans in the
following calendar quarter. Merchant fees, therefore, historically have tended
to increase in the first fiscal quarter, reflecting higher sales activity in
the month of December. Additionally, higher cardmember rewards incentives
historically have been accrued for as a reduction of merchant and cardmember
fee revenues in the first fiscal quarter, reflecting seasonal growth in retail
sales volume.

Liquidity and Capital Resources.

The Balance Sheet.

The Company's total assets increased to $482.6 billion at November 30, 2001
from $421.3 billion at November 30, 2000, primarily attributable to increases
in cash and cash equivalents, financial instruments owned and securities
borrowed. Securities provided as collateral also increased, primarily due to
the adoption of SFAS No. 140, which required the Company to recognize
securities received as collateral (as opposed to cash received as collateral)
in certain securities lending transactions in the consolidated statements of
financial condition at November 30, 2001. A substantial portion of the
Company's total assets consists of highly liquid marketable securities and
short-term receivables arising principally from securities transactions. The
highly liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in
financing and managing its business.





The following table sets forth the Company's total assets, adjusted assets,
leverage ratios and book value per share:


- --------
(1)Adjusted assets represent total assets less the sum of (i) assets that were
   recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 in fiscal 2001 and (ii)
   the lesser of securities purchased under agreements to resell or securities
   sold under agreements to repurchase.
(2)Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by shareholders' equity ($21,926
   million at November 30, 2001 and $19,671 million at November 30, 2000). For
   purposes of this calculation, shareholders' equity includes preferred and
   common equity and Preferred Securities Issued by Subsidiaries.
(3)Adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by shareholders'
   equity.
(4)Book value per share equals common shareholders' equity divided by common
   shares outstanding of 1,093 million at November 30, 2001 and 1,107 million
   at November 30, 2000.

Funding and Capital Policies.

The Company's senior management establishes the overall funding and capital
policies of the Company, reviews the Company's performance relative to these
policies, monitors the availability of sources of financing, reviews the
foreign exchange risk of the Company, and oversees the liquidity and interest
rate sensitivity of the Company's asset and liability position. The primary
goal of the Company's funding and liquidity activities is to ensure adequate
financing over a wide range of potential credit ratings and market environments.

Many of the Company's businesses are capital-intensive. Capital is required to
finance, among other things, the Company's securities inventories,
underwritings, principal investments, private equity activities, consumer
loans, bridge loans and other financings, and investments in fixed assets,
including aircraft assets. As a policy, the Company attempts to maintain
sufficient capital and funding sources in order to have the capacity to finance
itself on a fully collateralized basis at all times, including periods of
financial stress. Currently, the Company believes it has sufficient capital to
meet its needs. In addition, the Company attempts to maintain total equity, on
a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of all of its subsidiaries'
equity. Subsidiary equity capital requirements are determined by regulatory
requirements (if applicable), asset mix, leverage considerations and earnings
volatility.

The Company views return on equity to be an important measure of its
performance, in the context of both the particular business environment in
which the Company is operating and its peer group's results. In this regard,
the Company actively manages its consolidated capital position based upon,
among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of
return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and
rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract
its capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company
returns internally generated equity capital that is in excess of the needs of
its businesses to its shareholders through common stock repurchases and
dividends.

The Company's liquidity policies emphasize diversification of funding sources.
The Company also follows a funding strategy that is designed to ensure that the
tenor of the Company's liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding
period of the assets being financed. Short-term funding generally is obtained
at rates related to




U.S., Euro or Asian money market rates for the currency borrowed. Repurchase
transactions are effected at negotiated rates. Other borrowing costs are
negotiated depending upon prevailing market conditions (see Notes 6 and 7 to
the consolidated financial statements). Maturities of both short-term and
long-term financings are designed to minimize exposure to refinancing risk in
any one period.

The volume of the Company's borrowings generally fluctuates in response to
changes in the amount of repurchase transactions outstanding, the level of the
Company's securities inventories and consumer loan receivables, and overall
market conditions. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary
depending upon market conditions, the volume of certain trading activities, the
Company's credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. The Company,
therefore, maintains a surplus of unused short-term funding sources at all
times to withstand any unforeseen contraction in credit capacity. In addition,
the Company attempts to maintain cash and unhypothecated marketable securities
equal to at least 110% of its outstanding short-term unsecured borrowings. The
Company has in place a contingency funding strategy, which provides a
comprehensive one-year action plan in the event of a severe funding disruption.
These policies and strategies are designed to ensure that the Company maintains
sufficient liquidity to meet all of its obligations for a one-year period
without issuing any new unsecured debt.

The Company views long-term debt as a stable source of funding for core
inventories, consumer loans and illiquid assets and, therefore, maintains a
long-term debt-to-capitalization ratio at a level appropriate for the current
composition of its balance sheet. In general, fixed assets are financed with
fixed rate long-term debt, and securities inventories and the majority of
current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating
rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating basis.
Both fixed rate and floating rate long-term debt (in addition to sources of
funds accessed directly by the Company's Credit Services business) are used to
finance the Company's consumer loan portfolio. Consumer loan financing is
targeted to match the repricing and duration characteristics of the loans
financed. The Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate,
currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce
borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see Note 7 to the consolidated
financial statements).

The Company's reliance on external sources to finance a significant portion of
its day-to-day operations makes access to global sources of financing
important. The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are
dependent on the Company's short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors
that are significant to the determination of the Company's credit ratings or
otherwise affect the ability of the Company to raise short-term and long-term
financing include its: level and volatility of earnings, relative positions in
the markets in which it operates, global and product diversification, risk
management policies, cash liquidity and capital structure. In addition, the
agencies that rate the Company's debt have focused on certain recent changes in
the market that may require financial services firms to assume more credit risk
in connection with their corporate lending activities. A deterioration in any
of the previously mentioned factors or combination of these factors may lead
rating agencies to downgrade the credit ratings of the Company, thereby
increasing the cost to the Company in obtaining unsecured financings. In
addition, the Company's debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain
trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term
counterparty performance is critical, such as over-the-counter derivative
transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps.

As of January 31, 2002, the Company's credit ratings were as follows:


- --------
(1) In October 2001, Fitch placed the Company's senior debt credit ratings on
negative outlook.
(2) In July 2001, Standard & Poor's placed the Company's senior debt credit
ratings on negative outlook.




As the Company continues to expand globally and derives revenues increasingly
in various currencies, foreign currency management is a key element of the
Company's financial policies. The Company benefits from operating in several
different currencies because weakness in any particular currency often is
offset by strength in another currency. The Company closely monitors its
exposure to fluctuations in currencies and, where cost-justified, adopts
strategies to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company's
financial performance. These strategies include engaging in various hedging
activities to manage income and cash flows denominated in foreign currencies
and using foreign currency borrowings, when appropriate, to finance investments
outside the U.S.

Principal Sources of Funding.

The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis. The Company raises
funding for its Securities and Investment Management businesses through diverse
sources. These sources include the Company's capital, including equity and
long-term debt; repurchase agreements; U.S., Canadian, Euro, Japanese and
Australian commercial paper; letters of credit; unsecured bond borrowings;
securities lending; buy/sell agreements; municipal reinvestments; master notes;
and committed and uncommitted lines of credit. Repurchase agreement
transactions, securities lending and a portion of the Company's bank borrowings
are made on a collateralized basis and, therefore, provide a more stable source
of funding than short-term unsecured borrowings.

The funding sources utilized for the Company's Credit Services business include
the Company's capital, including equity and long-term debt; asset-backed
securitizations; deposits; Federal Funds; and short-term bank notes. The
Company sells consumer loans through asset securitizations using several
transaction structures, including an extendible asset-backed certificate
program.

The asset securitization market is a significant source of funding for the
Company's Credit Services business. By utilizing this market, the Company
further diversifies its funding sources, realizes cost-effective funding and
reduces reliance on the Company's other funding sources, including unsecured
debt. The securitization transaction structures utilized for the Credit
Services business are accounted for as sales, i.e., off-balance sheet
transactions in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). In connection with its
Discover Card securitization program, the Company transfers credit card
receivables, on a revolving basis, to the Discover Card Master Trust I (the
"Trust"), which issues asset-backed securities registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. This structure includes certain features designed to
protect the investors that could result in earlier-than-expected amortization
of the transactions, potentially resulting in the need for the Company to
obtain alternative funding arrangements. The primary such feature relates to
the availability and adequacy of cash flows in the securitized pool of
receivables to meet contractual requirements ("economic early amortization").

Economic early amortization risk reflects the possibility of negative net
securitization cash flows and is driven primarily by the Trust's credit card
receivables performance (in particular, receivables yield, cardmember fees and
credit losses incurred) as well as the contractual rate of return of the
asset-backed securities. In the event of an economic early amortization,
receivables that would otherwise have been subsequently purchased by the Trust
from the Company would instead continue to be recognized on the Company's
consolidated statements of financial condition since the cash flows generated
in the Trust would instead be used to repay investors in the asset-backed
securities. These recognized receivables would require the Company to obtain
alternative funding. Although the Company believes that the combination of
factors that would result in an economic early amortization event is remote,
the Company also believes its access to alternative funding sources would
mitigate this potential liquidity risk.

The Company's bank subsidiaries solicit deposits from consumers, purchase
Federal Funds and issue short-term bank notes. Interest bearing deposits are
classified by type as savings, brokered and other time deposits. Savings
deposits consist primarily of money market deposit accounts sold directly to
cardmembers and savings deposits from individual securities clients. Brokered
deposits consist primarily of certificates of deposits issued by the Company's
bank subsidiaries. Other time deposits include individual and institutional
certificates of deposits.




The Company maintains borrowing relationships with a broad range of banks,
financial institutions, counterparties and others from which it draws funds in
a variety of currencies.

The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks
to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper
(the "MSDW Facility"). Under the terms of the MSDW Facility, the banks are
committed to provide up to $5.5 billion. The MSDW Facility contains restrictive
covenants which require, among other things, that the Company maintain
specified levels of shareholders' equity. At November 30, 2001, the Company
maintained an $8.2 billion surplus shareholders' equity as compared with the
MSDW Facility's restrictive covenant requirement. The Company believes that the
covenant restrictions will not impair its ability to obtain funding under the
MSDW Facility nor impair its ability to pay its current level of dividends. At
November 30, 2001, no borrowings were outstanding under the MSDW Facility.

The Company maintains a master collateral facility that enables Morgan Stanley
& Co. Incorporated ("MS&Co."), one of the Company's U.S. broker-dealer
subsidiaries, to pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters
of credit and other financial accommodations (the "MS&Co. Facility"). As part
of the MS&Co. Facility, MS&Co. also maintains a secured committed credit
agreement with a group of banks that are parties to the master collateral
facility under which such banks are committed to provide up to $1.875 billion.
The credit agreement contains restrictive covenants which require, among other
things, that MS&Co. maintain specified levels of consolidated stockholder's
equity and Net Capital, each as defined in the MS&Co. Facility. At November 30,
2001, MS&Co. maintained a $2.3 billion surplus consolidated stockholder's
equity and a $3.0 billion surplus Net Capital. The Company believes that the
restrictive covenants will not impair its ability to secure loan arrangements,
letters of credit and other financial accommodations under the MS&Co. Facility.
At November 30, 2001, no borrowings were outstanding under the MS&Co. Facility.

The Company also maintains a revolving credit facility that enables Morgan
Stanley & Co. International Limited ("MSIL"), the Company's London-based
broker-dealer subsidiary, to obtain committed funding from a syndicate of banks
(the "MSIL Facility") by providing a broad range of collateral under repurchase
agreements for a secured repo facility and a Company guarantee for an unsecured
facility. The syndicate of banks is committed to provide up to an aggregate of
$1.95 billion, available in six major currencies. The facility agreement
contains restrictive covenants which require, among other things, that MSIL
maintain specified levels of Shareholder's Equity and Financial Resources, each
as defined in the MSIL Facility. At November 30, 2001, MSIL maintained a $1.4
billion surplus Shareholder's Equity and a $1.0 billion surplus Financial
Resources. The MSDW Facility's restrictive covenants described above apply to
the Company as guarantor. The Company believes that the restrictive covenants
will not impair its ability to obtain funding under the MSIL Facility. At
November 30, 2001, no borrowings were outstanding under the MSIL Facility.

Morgan Stanley Japan Limited ("MSJL"), the Company's Tokyo-based broker-dealer
subsidiary, maintains a committed revolving credit facility, guaranteed by the
Company, that provides funding to support general liquidity needs, including
support of MSJL's unsecured borrowings (the "MSJL Facility"). The MSDW
Facility's restrictive covenants described above apply to the Company as
guarantor. Under the terms of the MSJL Facility, a syndicate of banks is
committed to provide up to 70 billion Japanese yen. The Company believes that
the restrictive covenants will not impair its ability to obtain funding under
the MSJL Facility. At November 30, 2001, no borrowings were outstanding under
the MSJL Facility.

The Company anticipates that it will utilize the MSDW Facility, the MS&Co.
Facility, the MSIL Facility or the MSJL Facility for short-term funding from
time to time (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements).

Fiscal 2001 and Subsequent Activity.

During the 12 months ended November 30, 2001, the Company issued senior notes
aggregating $18,101 million, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes
aggregating $5,995 million. These notes have maturities from 2002 to 2031 and
had a weighted average coupon interest rate of 4.8% at November 30, 2001. The
Company has entered into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates
based primarily on short-term London Interbank Offered Rates ("LIBOR") trading
levels. At November 30, 2001, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the




Company's Senior Indebtedness (as defined in the Company's public debt shelf
registration statements) was approximately $80.3 billion (including Senior
Indebtedness consisting of guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of
subsidiaries). Between November 30, 2001 and January 31, 2002, the Company's
long-term borrowings, net of repayments and repurchases, decreased by
approximately $1.7 billion.

The Board of Directors has authorized the Company to purchase, subject to
market conditions and certain other factors, shares of its common stock for
capital management purposes. The Company also has an ongoing repurchase
authorization in connection with awards granted under its equity-based
compensation plans. During fiscal 2001, the Company purchased $1,583 million of
its common stock. Subsequent to November 30, 2001 and through January 31, 2002,
the Company purchased an additional $133 million of its common stock; the
unused portion of the capital management common stock repurchase authorization
at January 31, 2002 was approximately $700 million.

In fiscal 2001, the Company redeemed all 1,000,000 outstanding shares of its
7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $200 per share. The
Company also simultaneously redeemed all corresponding Depositary Shares at a
redemption price of $50 per Depositary Share. Each Depositary Share represented
1/4 of a share of the Company's 7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock.

Subsequent to fiscal 2001, the Company redeemed all 1,725,000 outstanding
shares of its Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock at a
redemption price of $200 per share. The Company also simultaneously redeemed
all corresponding Depositary Shares at a redemption price of $50 per Depositary
Share. Each Depositary Share represented 1/4 of a share of the Company's Series
A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock.

The Company has Capital Units outstanding that were issued by the Company and
Morgan Stanley Finance plc ("MSF"), a U.K. subsidiary. A Capital Unit consists
of (a) a Subordinated Debenture of MSF guaranteed by the Company and maturing
in 2017 and (b) a related Purchase Contract issued by the Company, which may be
accelerated by the Company, requiring the holder to purchase one Depositary
Share representing shares (or fractional shares) of the Company's Cumulative
Preferred Stock. The aggregate amount of Capital Units outstanding was $66
million and $70 million at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000,
respectively.

In fiscal 2001, Morgan Stanley Capital Trust II, a consolidated Delaware
statutory business trust (the "Capital Trust II"), all of the common securities
of which are owned by the Company, issued $810 million of 7-1/4% Capital
Securities (the "Capital Securities II") that are guaranteed by the Company.
The Capital Trust II issued the Capital Securities II and invested the proceeds
in 7-1/4% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures issued by the
Company, which are due July 31, 2031.

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Less Liquid Assets.

In connection with its operating activities, the Company enters into certain
contractual obligations, as well as commitments to fund certain fixed assets
and other less liquid investments.

The Company's future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations
pursuant to its long-term debt, operating leases and aircraft purchase
obligations as of November 30, 2001 are summarized below:


- --------
(1)See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
(2)See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
(3)Approximately 80% of the aircraft to be acquired under these purchase
   obligations are subject to contractual lease arrangements.




The Company's commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit,
private equity and other principal investment activities, and financing
commitments as of November 30, 2001 are summarized below. Since commitments
associated with letters of credit and financing arrangements may expire unused,
the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding
requirements:


- --------
(1)See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

The table above does not include commitments to extend credit for consumer
loans in the amount of $304 billion. Such commitments arise from agreements
with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards, provided
there is no violation of conditions established in the related agreement. These
commitments, substantially all of which the Company can terminate at any time
and which do not necessarily represent future cash requirements, are
periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer creditworthiness (see
Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition, in the ordinary
course of business, the Company guarantees the unsecured debt and/or certain
trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign
exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain
subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are
required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the
subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related unsecured debt
or trading obligations) are included in the Company's consolidated financial
statements.

At November 30, 2001, certain assets of the Company, such as real property,
equipment and leasehold improvements of $2.6 billion, aircraft assets of $4.8
billion and goodwill of $1.4 billion, were illiquid. Certain equity investments
made in connection with the Company's private equity and other principal
investment activities, certain high-yield debt securities, certain
collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-related loan products, bridge
financings, and certain senior secured loans and positions also are not highly
liquid. At November 30, 2001, the Company had aggregate principal investments
associated with its private equity and other principal investment activities
(including direct investments and partnership interests) with a carrying value
of approximately $800 million, of which approximately $300 million represented
the Company's investments in its real estate funds.

In connection with the Company's fixed income securities activities, the
Company underwrites, trades, invests and makes markets in non-investment grade
instruments ("high-yield instruments"). For purposes of this discussion,
high-yield instruments are defined as fixed income, emerging market, preferred
equity securities and distressed debt rated BB+ or lower (or equivalent ratings
by recognized credit rating agencies) as well as non-rated securities which, in
the opinion of the Company, contain credit risks associated with non-investment
grade instruments. For purposes of this discussion, positions associated with
the Company's credit derivatives business are not included because reporting
gross market value exposures would not accurately reflect the risks associated
with these positions due to the manner in which they are risk-managed.
High-yield instruments generally involve greater risk than investment grade
securities due to the lower credit ratings of the issuers, which typically have
relatively high levels of indebtedness and, therefore, are more sensitive to
adverse economic conditions. In addition, the market for high-yield instruments
is, and may continue to be, characterized by periods of volatility and
illiquidity. The Company has credit and other risk policies and procedures to
monitor total inventory




positions and risk concentrations for high-yield instruments that are
administered in a manner consistent with the Company's overall risk management
policies and control structure. The Company records high-yield instruments at
fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are recognized currently in the
Company's consolidated statements of income. At November 30, 2001 and November
30, 2000, the Company had high-yield instruments owned with a market value of
approximately $1.3 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, and had high-yield
instruments sold, not yet purchased with a market value of $0.5 billion and
$0.5 billion, respectively.

In connection with certain of its business activities, the Company provides, on
a selective basis, through certain of its subsidiaries (including Morgan
Stanley Bank) financing or financing commitments to companies in the form of
senior and subordinated debt, including bridge financing. The borrowers may be
rated investment grade or non-investment grade. These loans and funding
commitments typically are secured against the borrower's assets (in the case of
senior loans), have varying maturity dates, and are generally contingent upon
certain representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to
the borrower. As part of these activities, the Company may syndicate and trade
certain of these loans. At November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, the
aggregate value of investment grade loans and positions was $1.5 billion and
$2.1 billion, respectively, and the aggregate value of non-investment grade
loans and positions was $1.4 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively. The
aggregate value and volume of financing activity decreased in fiscal 2001,
primarily due to difficult global market and economic conditions. The Company
expects that requests to provide financing or financing commitments in
connection with certain investment banking activities will continue and may
grow in the future.

In fiscal 2001, the Company sold a 1 million-square-foot office tower in New
York City that has been under construction since 1999. Under the terms of the
sale agreement, the Company is obligated to complete the construction of the
building, which is expected to occur in mid-2002.

Regulatory Capital Requirements.

MS&Co. and Morgan Stanley DW Inc. (formerly Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.)
("MSDWI") are registered broker-dealers and registered futures commission
merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital requirements
of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MSIL, a London-based broker-dealer
subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services
Authority, and MSJL, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the
capital requirements of the Financial Services Agency. MS&Co., MSDWI, MSIL and
MSJL have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory
capital requirements (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements).

Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ("FDIC") and other bank regulatory agencies, FDIC-insured financial
institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to
average assets ("leverage ratio"), (b) 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to
risk-weighted assets ("Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio") and (c) 8% of total
capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ("total risk-weighted capital
ratio"). At November 30, 2001, the leverage ratio, Tier 1 risk-weighted capital
ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company's
FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums.

Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities,
commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements
promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in
which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of
their local capital adequacy requirements. Morgan Stanley Derivative Products
Inc., the Company's triple-A rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains
certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating
agencies.

Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.

Because the Company's assets to a large extent are liquid in nature, they are
not significantly affected by inflation. However, inflation may result in
increases in the Company's expenses, which may not be readily




recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results
in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities
markets, upon the value of financial instruments and upon the markets for
consumer credit services, it may adversely affect the Company's financial
position and profitability.

A portion of the Company's business is conducted in currencies other than the
U.S. dollar. Non-U.S. dollar assets typically are financed by direct borrowing
or swap-based funding in the same currency. Changes in foreign exchange rates
affect non-U.S. dollar revenues as well as non-U.S. dollar expenses. Those
foreign exchange exposures that arise and are not hedged by an offsetting
foreign currency exposure are actively managed by the Company to minimize risk
of loss due to currency fluctuations.

Derivative Financial Instruments.

The Company actively offers to counterparties and trades for its own account a
variety of financial instruments described as "derivative products" or
"derivatives." These products generally take the form of futures, forwards,
options, swaps (including credit default swaps), caps, collars, floors, swap
options and similar instruments that derive their value from underlying
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodities, equity instruments, equity
indices, reference credits or other assets. All of the Company's
trading-related divisions use derivative products as an integral part of their
respective trading strategies, and such products are used extensively to manage
the market exposure that results from a variety of proprietary trading
activities (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). In addition,
as a dealer in certain derivative products, most notably interest rate and
currency swaps, the Company enters into derivative contracts to meet a variety
of risk management and other financial needs of its counterparties. Given the
highly integrated nature of derivative products and related cash instruments in
the determination of overall trading division profitability and the context in
which the Company manages its trading areas, it is not meaningful to allocate
trading revenues between the derivative and underlying cash instrument
components. Moreover, the risks associated with the Company's derivative
activities, including market and credit risks, are managed on an integrated
basis with associated cash instruments in a manner consistent with the
Company's overall risk management policies and control structure (see "Risk
Management" following "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations"). It should be noted that while particular
risks may be associated with the use of derivatives, in many cases derivatives
serve to reduce, rather than increase, the Company's exposure to market, credit
and other risks.

With respect to its derivatives positions, the Company's exposure to market
risk relates to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or
the fair value of the underlying financial instruments or commodities. The
Company's exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the
fair value of such contracts reported as assets. Such total fair value
outstanding as of November 30, 2001 was $32.1 billion. Approximately $25.7
billion of that credit risk exposure was with counterparties rated single-A or
better (see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements).

The Company also uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency
and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing
costs and hedge interest rate risk (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial
statements).

The Company believes that derivatives are valuable tools that can provide
cost-effective solutions to complex financial problems and remains committed to
providing its counterparties with innovative financial products. The Company
established Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc. to offer derivative
products to counterparties that will enter into derivative transactions only
with triple-A rated counterparties. In addition, the Company, through its
continuing involvement with regulatory, self-regulatory and industry
activities, provides leadership in the development of policies and practices in
order to maintain confidence in the markets for derivative products, which is
critical to the Company's ability to assist counterparties in meeting their
overall financial needs.




Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.

                                Risk Management

Risk Management Policy and Control Structure.

Risk is an inherent part of the Company's business and activities. The extent
to which the Company properly and effectively identifies, assesses, monitors
and manages each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is
critical to its soundness and profitability. The Company's broad-based
portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any
particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. The
Company seeks to identify, assess, monitor and manage, in accordance with
defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the
Company's business activities: market risk, credit risk, operational risk,
legal risk and funding risk. Funding risk is discussed in the "Liquidity and
Capital Resources" section of "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations." The Company's currency exposure
relating to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency
subsidiaries is discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.

Risk management at the Company is a multi-faceted process with independent
oversight that requires constant communication, judgment and knowledge of
specialized products and markets. The Company's senior management takes an
active role in the risk management process and has developed policies and
procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to
assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In
recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global
financial services business, the Company's risk management policies, procedures
and methodologies are evolutionary in nature and are subject to ongoing review
and modification.

The Management Committee, composed of the Company's most senior officers,
establishes the overall risk management policies for the Company and reviews
the Company's performance relative to these policies. The Management Committee
has created several Risk Committees to assist it in monitoring and reviewing
the Company's risk management practices. These Risk Committees, as well as
other committees established to manage and monitor specific risks, review the
risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to the
Company's market and credit risk profile, sales practices, pricing of consumer
loans and reserve adequacy, legal enforceability, and operational and systems
risks.

The Market Risk, Credit Risk, Controllers, Treasury, and Law and Compliance
Departments (collectively, the "Control Groups"), which are all independent of
the Company's business units, assist senior management and the Risk Committees
in monitoring and controlling the Company's risk profile. The Market and Credit
Risk Departments have operational responsibility for measuring and monitoring
aggregate market and credit risk, respectively, with respect to the Company's
institutional trading activities and are responsible for risk policy
development, risk analysis and risk reporting to senior management and the Risk
Committees. In addition, the Internal Audit Department, which also reports to
senior management, periodically examines and evaluates the Company's operations
and control environment. The Company is committed to employing qualified
personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and
business areas to implement effectively the Company's risk management and
monitoring systems and processes.

The following is a discussion of the Company's risk management policies and
procedures for its principal risks (other than funding risk). The discussion
focuses on the Company's securities trading (primarily its institutional
trading activities) and consumer lending and related activities. The Company
believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal
risks. This discussion and the estimated amounts of the Company's market risk
exposure generated by the Company's statistical analyses are forward-looking
statements. However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions
of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses
due to events in the markets in which the Company operates and certain other
factors described below.





Market Risk.

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market
prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market factors,
such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio.

Sound risk management is an integral part of the culture at the Company. The
various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that
market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. The Control Groups help
ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made
transparent to senior management. A variety of limits are designed to control
price and liquidity risk. Market risk is monitored through various measures:
statistically (using Value-at-Risk ("VaR") and related analytical measures); by
measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing conducted
in collaboration with the business units by the Market Risk Department. The
material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced
by the Market Risk Department that are circulated to, and discussed with,
senior management.

Trading and Related Activities.

Primary Market Risk Exposures and Market Risk Management.  During fiscal 2001,
the Company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices,
foreign exchange rates and commodity prices--and associated volatilities and
spreads--related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading
activities. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk as a result of its
market-making activities and proprietary trading in interest rate sensitive
financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied
volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of
the yield curve and credit spreads for credit-sensitive instruments). The
Company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of
making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining proprietary
positions. The Company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied
volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign
currency options and from maintaining foreign exchange positions. The Company
is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of
trading in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products,
natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives.

The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk
mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk
exposures and hedging through the purchase or sale of positions in related
securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative
products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). The Company manages the
market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on
a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. The
Company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to
maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well-diversified in the
aggregate with respect to market risk factors and reflects the Company's
aggregate risk tolerance as established by the Company's senior management.

Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Company and for each
major trading division of the Company worldwide (equity, fixed income, foreign
exchange and commodities). Additional market risk limits are assigned to
trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. Trading division risk
managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor
market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior
management.

The Market Risk Department independently reviews the Company's trading
portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing VaR and
other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. The Company's
trading businesses and the Market Risk Department also use, as appropriate,
measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied
volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures. Stress
testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of
specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed
periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk
managers and the Market Risk Department. Reports summarizing material risk
exposures are produced by the Market Risk Department and are disseminated to
senior management.





Value-at-Risk (VaR).  The statistical technique known as VaR is one of the
tools used by the Company to measure, monitor and review the market risk
exposures of its trading portfolios. The Market Risk Department calculates and
distributes daily VaR-based risk measures to various levels of management.

VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations.  The Company estimates VaR using
a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and Monte
Carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income
exposures. Historical simulation involves constructing a distribution of
hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets
of inputs: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or
other market factors ("market risk factors"); and information on the
sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. In the
case of the Company's VaR, approximately four years of historical data are used
to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. The Company's
99%/one-day VaR corresponds to the negative change in portfolio value that,
based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been
exceeded with a frequency of 1%, or once in 100 trading days.

The Company's VaR model generally takes into account linear and non-linear
exposures to price risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks.
Market risks that are incorporated in the VaR model include equity and
commodity prices, interest rates, foreign exchange rates and associated implied
volatilities. As a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major
market risk factors, the Company's VaR model uses Monte Carlo simulation to
capture name-specific risk in equities and in corporate and high-yield bonds.
For example, the model includes measures of name-specific risk for
approximately 10,000 equity names and approximately 200 classes of corporate
and high-yield bonds.

VaR models such as the Company's should be expected to evolve over time in
response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to
improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. For example,
during fiscal 2001, as part of the Company's ongoing program of VaR model
enhancement, position and risk coverage were broadened and risk measurement
methodologies were refined for certain energy (natural gas and electricity) and
fixed income products.

Among their benefits, VaR models permit estimation of a portfolio's aggregate
market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect
risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can
cover a wide range of portfolio assets. However, VaR risk measures should be
interpreted carefully in light of the methodology's limitations, which include
the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield
accurate predictions of the distributions and correlations of future market
movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements
(especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses
calculated by a VaR model; VaR using a one-day time horizon does not fully
capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within
one day; the historical market risk factor data used for VaR estimation may
provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market
conditions that are unusual relative to the historical period used in
estimating the VaR; and published VaR results reflect past trading positions
while future risk depends on future positions. The Company is aware of these
and other limitations and, therefore, uses VaR as only one component in its
risk management oversight process. As explained above, this process also
incorporates stress testing and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and
control at the trading desk, division and Company levels.

VaR for Fiscal 2001.  The table below presents the Company's VaR for each of
the Company's primary market risk exposures and on an aggregate basis at
November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, incorporating substantially all
financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the Company's
institutional trading businesses. This measure of VaR incorporates most of the
Company's trading-related market risks. However, a small proportion of trading
positions generating market risk was not covered, and the modeling of the risk
characteristics of some positions involved approximations that could be
significant under certain circumstances. For example, risks associated with
residential mortgage-backed securities have been approximated as it is
difficult to capture precisely these risks within a VaR context.




Aggregate VaR also incorporates (a) the funding liabilities related to
institutional trading positions and (b) public-company equity positions
recorded as principal investments by the Company. The incremental impact on VaR
of these non-trading positions was not material as of November 30, 2001 and
November 30, 2000, and, therefore, the table below does not separately report
trading and non-trading VaRs.

Non-publicly traded principal investments made by the Company are not reflected
in the VaR results reported below. As of November 30, 2001, the aggregate
carrying value of such investments was approximately
$500 million.

Since VaR statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position
and market data, VaR should not be viewed as predictive of the Company's future
financial performance or its ability to monitor and manage risk. There can be
no assurance that the Company's actual losses on a particular day will not
exceed the VaR amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more
than once in 100 trading days:


- --------
(1)Diversification benefit equals the difference between Aggregate VaR and the
   sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This benefit arises because
   the simulated 99%/one-day losses for each of the four primary market risk
   categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also
   are taken into account within each such category.

The Company's Aggregate VaR at November 30, 2001 was unchanged from the prior
year, as an increase in commodity price VaR, which primarily reflected a model
enhancement resulting in improved capture of geographic basis risk, was offset
by a higher diversification benefit.

In order to facilitate comparisons with other global financial services firms,
the Company's Aggregate
VaR values at November 30, 2001 for other confidence levels and time horizons
were as follows: $30 million for 95%/one-day VaR and $133 million for
99%/two-week VaR.

The table below presents the high, low and average 99%/one-day trading VaR over
the course of fiscal 2001 for substantially all of the Company's institutional
trading activities. Certain market risks included in the year-end VaR discussed
above are excluded from this measure (e.g., equity price risk in public company
equity positions recorded as principal investments by the Company and certain
funding liabilities related to trading positions):






The histogram below presents the Company's daily 99%/one-day VaR for its
institutional trading activities during fiscal 2001:



Description of Histogram: The horizontal axis of the chart categorizes the
99%/one-day Value-at-Risk into numerical ranges. The vertical axis of the chart
indicates the number of trading days that Value-at-Risk fell into a given
numerical range. The histogram shows that distribution of daily 99%/one-day
Value-at-Risk during fiscal year 2001 was:


        Value-at-Risk
(in millions of U.S. dollars)               Number of Days
- ----------------------------                ---------------

     Greater than 57                                3

        55 to 57                                    1

        53 to 55                                    5

        51 to 53                                    6

        49 to 51                                   26

        47 to 49                                   33

        45 to 47                                   51

        43 to 45                                   43

        41 to 43                                   39

        39 to 41                                   19

        37 to 39                                   17

        35 to 37                                   11

      Less than 35                                  0



The histogram below shows the distribution of daily revenues during fiscal 2001
for the Company's institutional trading businesses (net of interest expense and
including commissions and primary revenue credited to the trading businesses):

Description of Histogram: The horizontal axis of the chart categorizes daily net
revenue of the institutional trading businesses into numerical ranges. The
vertical axis of the chart indicates the number of trading days that revenue
fell into a given numerical range. The histogram shows that distribution of
daily institutional trading revenue during fiscal year 2001 was:


 Daily Institutional Trading
           Revenue
(in millions of U.S. dollars)               Number of Days
- -----------------------------               --------------

       Less than -10                               5

         -10 to -5                                 2

          -5 to 0                                  5

          0 to 5                                   6

          5 to 10                                 11

         10 to 15                                 20

         15 to 20                                 26

         20 to 25                                 22

         25 to 30                                 20

         30 to 35                                 22

         35 to 40                                 25

         40 to 45                                 18

         45 to 50                                 11

         50 to 55                                 11

         55 to 60                                 12

         60 to 65                                 12

         65 to 70                                  6

         70 to 75                                  3

         75 to 80                                  2

         80 to 85                                  4

         85 to 90                                  5

    Greater than 90                                4







The Company evaluates the reasonableness of its VaR model by comparing the
potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual
trading results. There were no days during fiscal 2001 in which the Company
incurred daily mark-to-market losses (trading revenue net of interest income
and expense and excluding commissions and primary revenue credited to the
trading businesses) in its institutional trading business in excess of the
99%/one-day VaR.

Consumer Lending and Related Activities.


Interest Rate Risk and Management.  In its consumer lending activities, the
Company is exposed to market risk primarily from changes in interest rates.
Such changes in interest rates impact interest earning assets, principally
credit card and other consumer loans and net excess servicing fees received in
connection with consumer loans sold through asset securitizations, as well as
the interest-sensitive liabilities that finance these assets, including
asset-backed securitizations; long-term borrowings; deposits; Federal Funds;
and short-term bank notes.

The Company's interest rate risk management policies are designed to reduce the
potential volatility of earnings that may arise from changes in interest rates
by having a financing portfolio that reflects the existing repricing schedules
of consumer loans as well as the Company's right, with notice to cardmembers,
to reprice certain fixed rate consumer loans to a new interest rate in the
future. To the extent that asset and related financing repricing
characteristics of a particular portfolio are not matched effectively, the
Company utilizes interest rate derivative contracts, such as swap agreements,
to achieve its objectives. Interest rate swap agreements effectively convert
the underlying asset or financing from fixed to variable repricing or from
variable to fixed repricing.

Sensitivity Analysis Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations.  For its
consumer lending activities, the Company uses a variety of techniques to assess
its interest rate risk exposure, one of which is interest rate sensitivity
simulation. For purposes of presenting the possible earnings effect of a
hypothetical, adverse change in interest rates over the 12-month period from
its fiscal year-end, the Company assumes that all interest rate sensitive
assets and liabilities will be impacted by a hypothetical, immediate
100-basis-point increase in interest rates as of the beginning of the period.

Interest rate sensitive assets are assumed to be those for which the stated
interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period. In
fiscal 2001, a portion of the Company's credit card receivables was repriced to
a fixed interest rate, although the Company has the right, with notice to
cardmembers, to subsequently reprice these receivables to a new interest rate.
Therefore, the Company considers the receivables with a fixed interest rate to
be interest rate sensitive. The Company measured the earnings sensitivity for
these assets from the expected repricing date, which takes into consideration
the required notice period and billing cycles. In addition, assets that have a
market-based index, such as the prime rate, which will reset before the end of
the 12-month period, or assets with rates that are fixed at fiscal year-end but
which will mature, or otherwise contractually reset to a market-based indexed
or other fixed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are
rate-sensitive. The latter category includes certain credit card loans that may
be offered at below-market rates for an introductory period, such as for
balance transfers and special promotional programs, after which the loans will
contractually reprice in accordance with the Company's normal market-based
pricing structure. For purposes of measuring rate-sensitivity for such loans,
only the effect of the hypothetical 100-basis-point change in the underlying
market-based indexed or other fixed rate has been considered rather than the
full change in the rate to which the loan would contractually reprice. For
assets that have a fixed interest rate at fiscal year-end but which
contractually will, or are assumed to, reset to a market-based indexed or other
fixed rate during the next 12 months, earnings sensitivity is measured from the
expected repricing date. In addition, for all interest rate sensitive assets,
earnings sensitivity is calculated net of expected loan losses.

Interest rate sensitive liabilities are assumed to be those for which the
stated interest rate is not contractually fixed for the next 12-month period.
Thus, liabilities that have a market-based index, such as the prime, commercial
paper or LIBOR rates, which will reset before the end of the 12-month period,
or liabilities whose rates are fixed at fiscal year-end but which will mature
and are assumed to be replaced with a market-based




indexed rate prior to the end of the 12-month period, are rate-sensitive. For
these fixed rate liabilities, earnings sensitivity is measured from the
expected repricing date.

Assuming a hypothetical, immediate 100-basis-point increase in the interest
rates affecting all interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities as of
November 30, 2001, it is estimated that the pre-tax income of consumer lending
and related activities over the following 12-month period would be reduced by
approximately $71 million. The comparable reduction of pre-tax income for the
12-month period following November 30, 2000 was estimated to be approximately
$62 million. The reduction in pre-tax income at November 30, 2001 was greater
as compared with the prior year, primarily due to the Company's consumer loan
portfolio comprising a greater proportion of receivables with a fixed interest
rate at fiscal year-end 2001 and the related impact of the funding supporting
the Company's consumer loans.

The hypothetical model assumes that the balances of interest rate sensitive
assets and liabilities at fiscal year-end will remain constant over the next
12-month period. It does not assume any growth, strategic change in business
focus, change in asset pricing philosophy or change in asset/liability funding
mix. Thus, this model represents a static analysis that cannot adequately
portray how the Company would respond to significant changes in market
conditions. Furthermore, the analysis does not necessarily reflect the
Company's expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near
term, including the likelihood of an immediate 100-basis-point change in market
interest rates, nor necessarily the actual effect on earnings if such rate
changes were to occur.

Credit Risk.

The Company's exposure to credit risk arises from the possibility that a
customer or counterparty to a transaction might fail to perform under its
contractual commitment, which could result in the Company incurring losses.
With respect to its institutional securities activities, the Company has credit
guidelines that limit the Company's current and potential credit exposure to
any one customer or counterparty and to aggregates of customers or
counterparties by type of business activity. The Credit Risk Department
administers limits, monitors credit exposure and periodically reviews the
financial soundness of customers and counterparties on a worldwide basis. The
Company manages the credit exposure relating to its trading activities in
various ways, including entering into master netting agreements, collateral
arrangements, and limiting the duration of exposure. Risk is mitigated in
certain cases by closing out transactions, entering into risk-reducing
transactions, assigning transactions to other parties or purchasing credit
protection. With respect to corporate lending, the Capital Commitment
Committee, which is composed of senior managers from various departments within
the Company, reviews each loan request. The Company manages the credit exposure
on corporate loans in various ways, including the structure (collateral and
seniority) of the loan and covenants. Risk is mitigated in certain cases by
selling participation interests in a loan to other lenders, selling loans or
purchasing credit protection.




With respect to certain derivative transactions, the Company requires
collateral from its counterparties, principally cash and U.S. government and
agency securities, to reduce default risk. The following table presents a
summary of counterparty credit ratings for the replacement cost of
over-the-counter derivatives in a gain position by maturity at November 30,
2001. In addition, collateral received by the Company is presented by the
credit rating of the counterparties providing the collateral. The following
table includes credit exposure only from over-the-counter derivative
transactions and does not include other credit exposures, such as the Company's
senior lending activities:

- --------
(1) Credit ratings are determined by external rating agencies or by equivalent
    ratings used by the Company's Credit Risk Department.
(2) Represents netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances
    with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are net within such
    maturity category.

With respect to its consumer lending activities, potential credit card holders
undergo credit reviews by the Credit Department of Discover Financial Services
to establish that they meet standards of ability and willingness to pay. Credit
card applications are evaluated using scoring models (statistical evaluation
models) based on information obtained from applicants and credit bureaus. The
Company's credit scoring systems include both industry and customized models
using the Company's criteria and historical data. Each cardmember's credit line
is reviewed at least annually, and actions resulting from such review may
include raising or lowering a cardmember's credit line or closing the account.
In addition, the Company, on a portfolio basis, performs periodic monitoring
and review of consumer behavior and risk profiles. The Company also reviews the
creditworthiness of prospective Discover Business Services merchants and
conducts annual reviews of merchants with the greatest scrutiny given to
merchants with substantial sales volume.

Concentration Risk.

The Company is subject to concentration risk by holding large positions in
certain types of securities or commitments to purchase securities of a single
issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in
a particular country or geographic area, public and private issuers involving
developing countries or issuers engaged in a particular industry (see Note 10
to the consolidated financial statements). The Company seeks to limit
concentration risk through the use of systems and procedures described in the
preceding discussions of market and credit risk.

Operational Risk.

Operational risk refers generally to the risk of loss resulting from the
Company's operations, including, but not limited to, improper or unauthorized
execution and processing of transactions, deficiencies in the Company's
operating systems and inadequacies or breaches in the Company's control
processes. The Company operates different businesses in diverse markets and is
reliant on the ability of its employees and systems to process high numbers of
transactions. These transactions may cross multiple markets and involve
different currencies. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of
systems or improper action by employees, the Company could suffer financial
loss, regulatory sanctions and damage to its reputation.

In order to mitigate and control operational risk, the Company has developed
and continues to enhance specific policies and procedures that are designed to
identify and manage operational risk at appropriate levels. For




example, the Company's securities business has procedures that require that all
transactions are accurately recorded and properly reflected in the Company's
books and records and are confirmed on a timely basis; that position valuations
are subject to periodic independent review procedures; and that collateral and
adequate documentation (e.g., master agreements) are obtained from
counterparties in appropriate circumstances. With respect to its consumer
lending activities, the Company manages operational risk through its system of
internal controls that provides checks and balances to ensure that transactions
and other account-related activity (e.g., new account solicitation, transaction
authorization and processing, billing and collection of delinquent accounts)
are properly approved, processed, recorded and reconciled. Disaster recovery
plans are in place for critical systems on a Company-wide basis, and
redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. The Company also
uses periodic self-assessments and Internal Audit reviews as a further check on
operational risk.

Legal Risk.

Legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and
regulatory requirements and the risk that a counterparty's performance
obligations will be unenforceable. The Company is generally subject to
extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its
business. The Company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory
requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to ensure compliance with
all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. The Company, principally
through the Law and Compliance Department, also has established procedures that
are designed to ensure that senior management's policies relating to conduct,
ethics and business practices are followed globally. In connection with its
businesses, the Company has various procedures addressing issues, such as
regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, use
and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, collection
activities, money-laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. In addition, the
Company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty's
performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of
counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the
permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable
bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies.





Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition
of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of
fiscal years ended November 30, 2001 and 2000, and the related consolidated
statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in
shareholders' equity for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended
November 30, 2001. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Morgan
Stanley Dean Witter & Co. and subsidiaries at fiscal years ended November 30,
2001 and 2000, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended November 30, 2001,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

New York, New York
January 11, 2002




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
                   (dollars in millions, except share data)







                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

          Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition--(Continued)
                   (dollars in millions, except share data)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                       Consolidated Statements of Income
            (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)


- --------
(1)  Amounts shown are used to calculate basic earnings per common share.

                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
                             (dollars in millions)






                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                             (dollars in millions)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
                             (dollars in millions)



                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.   Introduction and Basis of Presentation.

The Company.  Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (the "Company") is a global
financial services firm that maintains leading market positions in each of its
three business segments--Securities, Investment Management and Credit Services.
The Company's Securities business includes securities underwriting and
distribution; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and
acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; full-service
brokerage services; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in
equity securities and related products and fixed income securities and related
products, including foreign exchange and commodities; principal investing,
including private equity activities; and aircraft financing activities. The
Company's Investment Management business provides global asset management
products and services for individual and institutional investors through three
principal distribution channels: the Company's financial advisors and
investment representatives; a non-proprietary channel consisting of third-party
broker-dealers, banks, financial planners and other intermediaries; and the
Company's institutional channel. The Company's Credit Services business
includes the issuance of the Discover(R) Classic Card, the Discover Gold Card,
the Discover Platinum Card, the Morgan Stanley/ CardSM/ and other proprietary
general purpose credit cards; and the operation of Discover Business Services,
a proprietary network of merchant and cash access locations in the U.S.

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its U.S. and international subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley & Co.
Incorporated ("MS&Co."), Morgan Stanley & Co. International Limited ("MSIL"),
Morgan Stanley Japan Limited ("MSJL"), Morgan Stanley DW Inc. (formerly Dean
Witter Reynolds Inc.) ("MSDWI"), Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors Inc.
(formerly Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Advisors Inc.) and NOVUS Credit Services
Inc.

Basis of Financial Information.  The consolidated financial statements for the
12 months ended November 30, 2001 ("fiscal 2001"), November 30, 2000 ("fiscal
2000") and November 30, 1999 ("fiscal 1999") are prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which requires the
Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding the valuations of certain
financial instruments, consumer loan loss levels, the potential outcome of
litigation and other matters that affect the consolidated financial statements
and related disclosures. The Company believes that the estimates utilized in
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and
reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-year amounts to conform to
the current presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated.

2.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  For purposes of these statements, cash
and cash equivalents consist of cash and highly liquid investments not held for
resale with maturities, when purchased, of three months or less.

In connection with the fiscal 2001 purchase of Quilter Holdings Limited, the
Company issued approximately $37 million of notes payable, including
approximately $13 million of notes that are convertible into common shares of
the Company.

In connection with the fiscal 2000 purchase of Ansett Worldwide Aviation
Services ("Ansett Worldwide"), the Company assumed $1,380 million of long-term
borrowings.

In connection with the fiscal 1999 purchase of Morgan Stanley, S.V., S.A.
(formerly AB Asesores), the Company issued 1.4 million shares of common stock
having a fair value on the date of acquisition of $64 million.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Consumer Loans.  Consumer loans, which consist primarily of general purpose
credit card, mortgage and consumer installment loans, are reported at their
principal amounts outstanding less applicable allowances. Interest on consumer
loans is credited to income as earned.

Interest is accrued on credit card loans until the date of charge-off, which
generally occurs at the end of the month during which an account becomes 180
days past due, except in the case of bankruptcies and fraudulent transactions,
which are charged off earlier. The interest portion of charged-off credit card
loans is written off against interest revenue. Origination costs related to the
issuance of credit cards are charged to earnings over periods not exceeding 12
months.

Allowance for Consumer Loan Losses.  The allowance for consumer loan losses is
a significant estimate that is regularly evaluated for adequacy and is
established through a charge to the provision for consumer loan losses. The
evaluations take into consideration factors such as changes in the nature and
volume of the loan portfolio, overall portfolio quality, review of specific
problem loans and current economic conditions that may affect a borrower's
ability to pay.

The Company uses the results of these evaluations to provide an allowance for
consumer loan losses. The exposure for credit losses from owned loans is
influenced by the performance of the portfolio and other factors discussed
above, with the Company absorbing all related losses.

Financial Instruments Used for Trading and Investment.  Financial instruments,
including derivatives, used in the Company's trading activities are recorded at
fair value, and unrealized gains and losses are reflected in principal trading
revenues. Interest and dividend revenue and interest expense arising from
financial instruments used in trading activities are reflected in the
consolidated statements of income as interest and dividend revenue or interest
expense. The fair values of the trading positions generally are based on listed
market prices. If listed market prices are not available or if the liquidation
of the Company's positions would reasonably be expected to impact market
prices, fair value is determined based on other relevant factors, including
dealer price quotations and price quotations for similar instruments traded in
different markets, including markets located in different geographic areas.
Fair values for certain derivative contracts are derived from pricing models
that consider current market and contractual prices for the underlying
financial instruments or commodities, as well as time value and yield curve or
volatility factors underlying the positions. To the extent financial contracts
have extended maturity dates, the Company's estimates of fair value may involve
greater subjectivity due to the lack of transparent market data available upon
which to base modeling assumptions. Purchases and sales of financial
instruments are recorded in the accounts on trade date. Unrealized gains and
losses arising from the Company's dealings in over-the-counter ("OTC")
financial instruments, including derivative contracts related to financial
instruments and commodities, are presented in the accompanying consolidated
statements of financial condition on a net-by-counterparty basis, when
appropriate.

Equity securities purchased in connection with private equity and other
principal investment activities initially are carried in the consolidated
financial statements at their original costs. The carrying value of such equity
securities is adjusted when changes in the underlying fair values are readily
ascertainable, generally as evidenced by listed market prices or transactions
that directly affect the value of such equity securities. Downward adjustments
relating to such equity securities are made in the event that the Company
determines that the eventual realizable value is less than the carrying value.
The carrying value of investments made in connection with principal real estate
activities that do not involve equity securities is adjusted periodically based
on independent appraisals, estimates prepared by the Company of discounted
future cash flows of the underlying real estate assets or other indicators of
fair value.

Financial Instruments Used for Asset and Liability Management.  The Company
enters into various derivative financial instruments for non-trading purposes.
These instruments include interest rate swaps, foreign currency




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

swaps, equity swaps and foreign exchange forwards. The Company uses interest
rate and currency swaps and equity derivatives to manage interest rate,
currency and equity price risk arising from certain borrowings. The Company
also utilizes interest rate swaps to match the repricing characteristics of
consumer loans with those of the borrowings that fund these loans. Certain of
these derivative financial instruments are designated and qualify as fair value
hedges and cash flow hedges in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities," as amended (see "New Accounting Pronouncements"). For
qualifying fair value hedges, the changes in the fair value of the derivative
and the gain or loss on the hedged asset or liability relating to the risk
being hedged are recorded currently in earnings. These amounts are recorded in
interest expense and provide offset of one another. For qualifying cash flow
hedges, the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in
accumulated other comprehensive income, and amounts in accumulated other
comprehensive income are reclassified into earnings in the same period or
periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Ineffectiveness
relating to fair value and cash flow hedges, if any, is recorded within
interest expense.

The Company also utilizes foreign exchange forward contracts to manage the
currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar
functional currency operations. The gain or loss from revaluing these contracts
is deferred and reported within accumulated other comprehensive income in
shareholders' equity, net of tax effects, with the related unrealized amounts
due from or to counterparties included in receivables from or payables to
brokers, dealers and clearing organizations. The interest elements (forward
points) on these foreign exchange forward contracts are recorded in earnings.

Office Facilities.  Office facilities are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization of buildings,
leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment are provided
principally by the straight-line method. Property and equipment are depreciated
over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, while leasehold
improvements are amortized over the lesser of the economic useful life of the
asset or, where applicable, the remaining term of the lease.

Aircraft Under Operating Leases.  Aircraft under operating leases are stated at
cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated on a
straight-line basis. In accordance with SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,"
the recognition of an impairment loss for an asset held for use is required
when the estimate of undiscounted future cash flows (without interest charges)
expected to be generated by the asset is less than its carrying amount.
Measurement of impairment loss is based on the fair value of the asset. Fair
value reflects the underlying economic value of the aircraft, including
engines, in normal market conditions (where supply and demand are in reasonable
equilibrium) and assumes adequate time for a sale and a willing buyer and
seller. Short-term fluctuations in the marketplace are disregarded, and it is
assumed that there is no necessity either to dispose of a significant number of
aircraft simultaneously or to dispose of aircraft quickly. The fair value of
the assets is based on independent valuations of the aircraft in the fleet.
SFAS No. 121 also requires that certain long-lived assets to be disposed of be
reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less estimated
disposal costs. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company recognized an
impairment loss pursuant to SFAS No. 121 (see Note 19).

Investment Banking.  Underwriting revenues and fees for mergers and
acquisitions and advisory assignments are recorded when services for the
transaction are substantially completed. Transaction-related expenses are
deferred and later expensed to match revenue recognition.

Income Taxes.  Income tax expense is provided for using the asset and liability
method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based
upon the temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax
bases of assets and liabilities, using currently enacted tax rates.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Earnings per Share.  The Company calculates earnings per share ("EPS") in
accordance with SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share." The calculations of
earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common shares
and share equivalents outstanding and give effect to preferred stock dividend
requirements.

"Basic EPS" reflects no dilution from common stock equivalents, and "diluted
EPS" reflects dilution from common stock equivalents and other dilutive
securities based on the average price per share of the Company's common stock
during the period.

Cardmember Rewards.  Cardmember rewards, primarily the Cashback Bonus(R) award,
pursuant to which the Company pays Discover Classic Card, Discover Platinum
Card and Morgan Stanley Card cardmembers electing this feature a percentage of
their purchase amounts ranging up to 1%, are based upon a cardmember's annual
level and type of purchases. The liability for cardmember rewards, included in
other liabilities and accrued expenses, is accrued at the time that qualified
cardmember transactions occur and is calculated on an individual cardmember
basis.

In fiscal 2001, the Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue
No. 00-22, "Accounting for 'Points' and Certain Other Time-Based or
Volume-Based Sales Incentive Offers, and Offers for Free Products or Services
to Be Delivered in the Future." Prior to the adoption of EITF Issue No. 00-22,
the Company recorded its Cashback Bonus award program as a marketing and
business development expense. In accordance with EITF Issue No. 00-22, such
incentives are to be considered a reduction in revenues and are recorded in
merchant and cardmember fees. The Company's consolidated statements of income
for all periods presented have been restated to reflect this change.

Stock-Based Compensation.  SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" encourages, but does not require, companies to record
compensation cost for stock-based employee compensation plans at fair value.
The Company accounts for its stock-based compensation plans using the intrinsic
value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." Under the provisions of APB No. 25,
compensation cost for stock options is measured as the excess, if any, of the
quoted market price of the Company's common stock at the date of grant over the
amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.

Translation of Foreign Currencies.  Assets and liabilities of operations having
non-U.S. dollar functional currencies are translated at year-end rates of
exchange, and income statement accounts are translated at weighted average
rates of exchange for the year. In accordance with SFAS No. 52, "Foreign
Currency Translation," gains or losses resulting from translating foreign
currency financial statements, net of hedge gains or losses and related tax
effects, are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a
separate component of shareholders' equity. Gains or losses resulting from
foreign currency transactions are included in net income.

Goodwill.  Goodwill has been amortized on a straight-line basis over periods
from five to 40 years, generally not exceeding 25 years. At November 30, 2001
and November 30, 2000, goodwill of approximately $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion,
respectively, was included in the Company's consolidated statements of
financial condition as a component of other assets (see "New Accounting
Pronouncements)."

Deferred Compensation Arrangements.  In accordance with EITF Issue No. 97-14,
"Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts Earned Are
Held in a Rabbi Trust and Invested," assets of rabbi trusts are to be
consolidated with those of the employer, and the value of the employer's stock
held in rabbi trusts should be classified in shareholders' equity and generally
accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock. The Company, therefore,
has included its obligations under certain deferred compensation plans in
employee stock trust. Shares that the Company has issued to its rabbi trusts
are recorded in common stock issued to employee trust. Both employee stock
trust and common stock issued to employee trust are components of shareholders'
equity.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Software Costs.  In accordance with American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants ("AICPA") Statement of Position ("SOP") 98-1, "Accounting for the
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," certain
costs incurred in connection with an internal-use software project should be
capitalized and amortized over the expected useful life. The Company adopted
SOP 98-1 effective December 1, 1999.

Securitization Activities.  The Company engages in securitization activities
related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, corporate bonds and
loans, credit card loans and other types of financial assets. The Company may
retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of
the securitization, an undivided seller's interest, cash collateral accounts,
servicing rights, and rights to any excess cash flows remaining after payments
to investors in the securitization trusts of their contractual rate of return
and reimbursement of credit losses. The exposure to credit losses from
securitized loans is limited to the Company's retained contingent risk, which
represents the Company's retained interest in securitized loans, including any
credit enhancement provided. The gain or loss on the sale of financial assets
depends in part on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the
transfer, and each subsequent transfer in revolving structures, allocated
between the assets sold and the retained interests based upon their respective
fair values at the date of sale. To obtain fair values, quoted market prices
are used if available. However, quoted market prices are generally not
available for retained interests, so the Company estimates fair value based on
the present value of expected future cash flows using its best estimates of the
key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, payment rates, forward
yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. The
present value of future net servicing revenues that the Company estimates it
will receive over the term of the securitized loans is recognized in income as
the loans are securitized. A corresponding asset also is recorded and then
amortized as a charge to income over the term of the securitized loans, with
actual net servicing revenues continuing to be recognized in income as they are
earned. Retained interests in securitized financial assets associated with the
Company's Securities business was approximately $100 million at November 30,
2001. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of
financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such
retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. For
the 12 months ended November 30, 2001, the aggregate cash proceeds from
securitizations were approximately $27 billion.

New Accounting Pronouncements.  In June 1998, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 133, which established accounting and
reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. In June
1999, the FASB issued SFAS No. 137, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities--Deferral of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133,"
which deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 133 for one year to fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2000. In June 2000, the FASB issued SFAS No. 138,
"Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging
Activities--an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133." The Company adopted SFAS
No. 133, as amended by SFAS No. 138, effective December 1, 2000. The Company
recorded an after-tax charge to net income from the cumulative effect of the
adoption of SFAS No. 133, as amended, of $59 million and an after-tax decrease
to accumulated other comprehensive income of $13 million. The Company's
adoption of SFAS No. 133, as amended, affects the accounting for, among other
things, the Company's hedging strategies, including those associated with
certain financing activities.

In September 2000, the FASB issued SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities--a replacement
of FASB Statement No. 125." While SFAS No. 140 carries over most of the
provisions of SFAS No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," it provides new
guidelines for reporting financial assets transferred as collateral and new
guidelines for the derecognition of financial assets, in particular
transactions involving the use of special purpose entities. Effective April 1,
2001, the Company was required to recognize securities received as collateral
(as opposed to cash received as collateral) in certain securities lending
transactions in the consolidated statements of financial condition as of
November 30, 2001. SFAS No. 140 also prescribes additional disclosures




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

for collateral transactions and for securitization transactions accounted for
as sales. The new guidelines for collateral transactions were effective for
fiscal years ending after December 15, 2000, while the new guidelines for the
derecognition of financial assets were effective for transfers made after March
31, 2001. The additional disclosure requirements for collateral and
securitization transactions were effective for the second quarter of fiscal
2001 and are reflected herein.

In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS
No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 141 requires that the
purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated
after June 30, 2001. Use of the pooling-of-interests method no longer is
permitted. SFAS No. 141 also includes guidance on the initial recognition and
measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired in a business
combination that is completed after June 30, 2001. The Company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 141 on July 1, 2001.

SFAS No. 142 no longer permits the amortization of goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets. Instead, these assets must be reviewed
annually (or more frequently under certain conditions) for impairment in
accordance with this statement. Intangible assets that do not have indefinite
lives will continue to be amortized over their useful lives and reviewed for
impairment. The Company has early adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 142 as of
the beginning of fiscal year 2002. The full impact of adoption is yet to be
determined; however, annual amortization expense related to goodwill in fiscal
2001 approximated $100 million.

3.   Securities Financing Transactions.

Securities purchased under agreements to resell ("reverse repurchase
agreements") and securities sold under agreements to repurchase ("repurchase
agreements"), principally government and agency securities, are treated as
financing transactions and are carried at the amounts at which the securities
subsequently will be resold or reacquired as specified in the respective
agreements; such amounts include accrued interest. Reverse repurchase
agreements and repurchase agreements are presented on a net-by-counterparty
basis, when appropriate. It is the Company's policy to take possession of
securities purchased under agreements to resell. Securities borrowed and
securities loaned also are treated as financing transactions and are carried at
the amounts of cash collateral advanced and received in connection with the
transactions.

The Company pledges its financial instruments owned to collateralize repurchase
agreements and other securities financings. Pledged securities that can be sold
or repledged by the secured party are identified as financial instruments owned
(pledged to various parties) on the consolidated statements of financial
condition. The carrying value and classification of securities owned by the
Company that have been loaned or pledged to counterparties where those
counterparties do not have the right to sell or repledge the collateral were as
follows:



The Company enters into reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements,
securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned transactions to, among
other things, finance the Company's inventory positions, acquire securities to
cover short positions and settle other securities obligations and to accommodate




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

customers' needs. The Company also engages in securities financing transactions
for customers through margin lending. Under these agreements and transactions,
the Company either receives or provides collateral, including U.S. government
and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, corporate and
other debt, and corporate equities. The Company receives collateral in the form
of securities in connection with reverse repurchase agreements, securities
borrowed transactions and customer margin loans. In many cases, the Company is
permitted to sell or repledge these securities held as collateral and use the
securities to secure repurchase agreements, to enter into securities lending
transactions or for delivery to counterparties to cover short positions. At
November 30, 2001, the fair value of securities received as collateral where
the Company is permitted to sell or repledge the securities was $355 billion,
and the fair value of the portion that has been sold or repledged was $323
billion.

The Company manages credit exposure arising from reverse repurchase agreements,
repurchase agreements, securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned
transactions by, in appropriate circumstances, entering into master netting
agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties that provide the
Company, in the event of a customer default, the right to liquidate collateral
and the right to offset a counterparty's rights and obligations. The Company
also monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared with the
related receivable or payable, including accrued interest, and, as necessary,
requests additional collateral to ensure such transactions are adequately
collateralized. Where deemed appropriate, the Company's agreements with third
parties specify its rights to request additional collateral. Customer
receivables generated from margin lending activity are collateralized by
customer-owned securities held by the Company. For these transactions, the
Company's collateral policies significantly limit the Company's credit exposure
in the event of customer default. The Company may request additional margin
collateral from customers, if appropriate, and if necessary may sell securities
that have not been paid for or purchase securities sold but not delivered from
customers.

4.   Consumer Loans.

Consumer loans were as follows:


Activity in the allowance for consumer loan losses was as follows:

- --------
(1)This amount primarily reflects transfers related to general purpose credit
   card asset securitizations.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Interest accrued on general purpose credit card loans subsequently charged off,
recorded as a reduction of interest revenue, was $172 million, $127 million and
$116 million in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999, respectively.

At November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, $5,037 million and $5,478 million,
respectively, of the Company's consumer loans had minimum contractual
maturities of less than one year. Because of the uncertainty regarding consumer
loan repayment patterns, which historically have been higher than contractually
required minimum payments, this amount may not necessarily be indicative of the
Company's actual consumer loan repayments.

At November 30, 2001, the Company had commitments to extend credit for consumer
loans in the amount of $304 billion. Commitments to extend credit arise from
agreements with customers for unused lines of credit on certain credit cards,
provided there is no violation of conditions established in the related
agreement. These commitments, substantially all of which the Company can
terminate at any time and which do not necessarily represent future cash
requirements, are periodically reviewed based on account usage and customer
creditworthiness.

The Company received net proceeds from consumer loan asset securitizations of
$7,638 million, $10,294 million and $3,333 million in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000
and fiscal 1999, respectively.

The estimated fair value of the Company's consumer loans approximated carrying
value at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000. The Company's domestic
consumer loan portfolio, including securitized loans, is geographically
diverse, with a distribution approximating that of the population of the U.S.

The Company's retained interests in credit card asset securitizations include
an undivided seller's interest, cash collateral accounts, servicing rights and
rights to any excess cash flows ("Residual Interests") remaining after payments
to investors in the securitization trust of their contractual rate of return
and reimbursement of credit losses. The Company receives annual servicing fees
of 2% of the investor principal balance outstanding. At November 30, 2001, the
Company had $7.9 billion of retained interests, including $5.6 billion of
undivided seller's interest, in credit card asset securitizations. The
Company's undivided seller's interest ranks pari passu with investors'
interests in the securitization trust, and the remaining retained interests are
subordinate to investors' interests. The retained interests are subject to
credit, payment and interest rate risks on the transferred credit card assets.
The investors and the securitization trust have no recourse to the Company's
other assets for failure of cardmembers to pay when due.

For fiscal 2001, the Company completed credit card asset securitizations of
$7.3 billion and recognized net securitization gains of $70 million as
servicing fees in the Company's consolidated statements of income. The
uncollected balances of general purpose credit card loans sold through asset
securitizations were $29,247 million and $25,257 million at November 30, 2001
and November 30, 2000, respectively.

Key economic assumptions used in measuring the Residual Interests at the date
of securitization resulting from credit card asset securitizations completed
during fiscal 2001 were as follows:






                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value of the
Residual Interests to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those
assumptions were as follows (dollars in millions):



The sensitivity analysis in the table above is hypothetical and should be used
with caution. Changes in fair value based on a 10% or 20% variation in an
assumption generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the
change in the assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also,
the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the
Residual Interests is calculated independent of changes in any other
assumption; in practice, changes in one factor may result in changes in another
(for example, increases in market interest rates may result in lower payments
and increased credit losses), which might magnify or counteract the
sensitivities. In addition, the sensitivity analysis does not consider any
corrective action that the Company may take to mitigate the impact of any
adverse changes in the key assumptions.

The table below summarizes certain cash flows received from the securitization
master trust (dollars in billions):



The table below presents quantitative information about delinquencies, net
credit losses and components of managed general purpose credit card loans,
including securitized loans (dollars in billions):






                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


5.   Deposits.

Deposits were as follows:


The weighted average interest rates of interest bearing deposits outstanding
during fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 were 6.2% and 6.4%, respectively.

At November 30, 2001, certificate accounts maturing over the next five years
were as follows:



The estimated fair value of the Company's deposits, using current rates for
deposits with similar maturities, approximated carrying value at November 30,
2001 and November 30, 2000.

6.   Short-Term Borrowings.

At November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, commercial paper of $25,158 million
and $18,352 million, with weighted average interest rates of 2.4% and 6.0%,
respectively, was outstanding.

At November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, other short-term borrowings of
$7,684 million and $9,402 million, respectively, were outstanding. These
borrowings included bank loans, Federal Funds and bank notes.

The Company maintains a senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks
to support general liquidity needs, including the issuance of commercial paper
(the "MSDW Facility"). Under the terms of the MSDW Facility, the banks are
committed to provide up to $5.5 billion. The MSDW Facility contains restrictive
covenants which require, among other things, that the Company maintain
specified levels of shareholders' equity. At November 30, 2001, the Company
maintained an $8.2 billion surplus shareholders' equity as compared with the
MSDW Facility's restrictive covenant requirement. The Company believes that the
covenant restrictions will not impair its ability to obtain funding under the
MSDW Facility nor impair its ability to pay its current level of dividends. At
November 30, 2001, no borrowings were outstanding under the MSDW Facility.

The Company maintains a master collateral facility that enables MS&Co. to
pledge certain collateral to secure loan arrangements, letters of credit and
other financial accommodations (the "MS&Co. Facility"). As part of the MS&Co.
Facility, MS&Co. also maintains a secured committed credit agreement with a
group of banks that are parties to the master collateral facility under which
such banks are committed to provide up to $1.875 billion. The credit agreement
contains restrictive covenants which require, among other things, that MS&Co.
maintain specified levels of consolidated stockholder's equity and Net Capital,
each as defined in the MS&Co. Facility. At




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

November 30, 2001, MS&Co. maintained a $2.3 billion surplus consolidated
stockholder's equity and a $3.0 billion surplus Net Capital. The Company
believes that the restrictive covenants will not impair its ability to secure
loan arrangements, letters of credit and other financial accommodations under
the MS&Co. Facility. At November 30, 2001, no borrowings were outstanding under
the MS&Co. Facility.

The Company also maintains a revolving credit facility that enables MSIL to
obtain committed funding from a syndicate of banks (the "MSIL Facility") by
providing a broad range of collateral under repurchase agreements for a secured
repo facility and a Company guarantee for an unsecured facility. The syndicate
of banks is committed to provide up to an aggregate of $1.95 billion, available
in six major currencies. The facility agreement contains restrictive covenants
which require, among other things, that MSIL maintain specified levels of
Shareholder's Equity and Financial Resources, each as defined in the MSIL
Facility. At November 30, 2001, MSIL maintained a $1.4 billion surplus
Shareholder's Equity and a $1.0 billion surplus Financial Resources. The MSDW
Facility's restrictive covenants described above apply to the Company as
guarantor. The Company believes that the restrictive covenants will not impair
its ability to obtain funding under the MSIL Facility. At November 30, 2001, no
borrowings were outstanding under the MSIL Facility.

MSJL, the Company's Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, maintains a committed
revolving credit facility, guaranteed by the Company, that provides funding to
support general liquidity needs, including support of MSJL's unsecured
borrowings (the "MSJL Facility"). The MSDW Facility's restrictive covenants
described above apply to the Company as guarantor. Under the terms of the MSJL
Facility, a syndicate of banks is committed to provide up to 70 billion
Japanese yen. The Company believes that the restrictive covenants will not
impair its ability to obtain funding under the MSJL Facility. At November 30,
2001, no borrowings were outstanding under the MSJL Facility.

The Company anticipates that it will utilize the MSDW Facility, the MS&Co.
Facility, the MSIL Facility or the MSJL Facility for short-term funding from
time to time.

7.   Long-Term Borrowings.

Maturities and Terms.  Long-term borrowings at fiscal year-end consisted of the
following:


- --------
(1)Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing non-U.S. dollar interest
   rates.
(2)U.S. dollar contractual floating rate borrowings bear interest based on a
   variety of money market indices, including London Interbank Offered Rates
   ("LIBOR") and Federal Funds rates. Non-U.S. dollar contractual floating rate
   borrowings bear interest based on euro floating rates.
(3)Amounts include an increase of approximately $850 million to the carrying
   amount of certain of the Company's long-term borrowings associated with fair
   value hedges under SFAS No. 133.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Medium-Term Notes.  Included in the table above are medium-term notes of
$18,390 million and $20,163 million at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000,
respectively. The weighted average interest rate on all medium-term notes was
3.3% in fiscal 2001 and 6.3% in fiscal 2000. Maturities of these notes range
from fiscal 2002 through fiscal 2029.

Structured Borrowings.  U.S. dollar index/equity linked borrowings include
various structured instruments whose payments and redemption values are linked
to the performance of a specific index (e.g., Standard & Poor's 500), a basket
of stocks or a specific equity security. To minimize the exposure resulting
from movements in the underlying equity position or index, the Company has
entered into various equity swap contracts and purchased options that
effectively convert the borrowing costs into floating rates based upon LIBOR.
These instruments are included in the preceding table at their redemption
values based on the performance of the underlying indices, baskets of stocks or
specific equity securities at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000.

Other Borrowings.  Included in the Company's long-term borrowings are
subordinated notes (including the notes issued by MS&Co. discussed below) of
$666 million and $1,332 million at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000,
respectively. The weighted average interest rate on these subordinated notes
was 7.4% in both fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000. Maturities of the subordinated
notes range from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2016.

Certain of the Company's long-term borrowings are redeemable prior to maturity
at the option of the holder. These notes contain certain provisions which
effectively enable noteholders to put the notes back to the Company and,
therefore, are scheduled in the foregoing table to mature in fiscal 2002
through fiscal 2009. The stated maturities of these notes, which aggregate
$4,292 million, are from fiscal 2002 to fiscal 2031.

At November 30, 2001, MS&Co., a U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary of the Company,
had outstanding $243 million of 8.51% fixed rate subordinated Series B notes,
$96 million of 7.03% fixed rate subordinated Series D notes, $82 million of
7.28% fixed rate subordinated Series E notes and $25 million of 7.82% fixed
rate subordinated Series F notes. These notes had maturities from fiscal 2003
to fiscal 2016. The terms of such notes contain restrictive covenants which
require, among other things, that MS&Co. maintain specified levels of
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth and Net Capital, each as defined. During fiscal
2001, MS&Co. redeemed all $357 million of its 8.22% fixed rate subordinated
Series A notes and all $313 million of its 6.81% fixed rate subordinated
Series C notes prior to their scheduled maturity.

Extinguishment of Long-Term Borrowings.  During the third quarter of fiscal
2001, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $30 million, net of income
taxes, resulting from the early extinguishment of certain long-term borrowings
associated with the Company's aircraft financing activities.

Asset and Liability Management.  A portion of the Company's fixed rate
long-term borrowings is used to fund highly liquid marketable securities and
short-term receivables arising from securities transactions. The Company uses
interest rate swaps to more closely match the duration of these borrowings to
the duration of the assets being funded and to manage interest rate risk. These
swaps effectively convert certain of the Company's fixed rate borrowings into
floating rate obligations. In addition, for non-U.S. dollar currency borrowings
that are not used to fund assets in the same currency, the Company has entered
into currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar
obligations. The Company's use of swaps for asset and liability management
affected its effective average borrowing rate as follows:

- --------
(1)Included in the weighted average and effective average calculations are
   non-U.S. dollar interest rates.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


The effective weighted average interest rate on the Company's index/equity
linked notes, which is not included in the table above, was 2.3% and 6.8% in
fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000, respectively, after giving effect to the related
hedges.

The estimated fair value of the Company's long-term borrowings approximated
carrying value based on rates available to the Company at year-end for
borrowings with similar terms and maturities.

Cash paid for interest for the Company's borrowings and deposits approximated
interest expense in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999.

8.   Commitments and Contingencies.

The Company has non-cancelable operating leases covering office space and
equipment. At November 30, 2001, future minimum rental commitments under such
leases (net of subleases, principally on office rentals) were as follows:



Occupancy lease agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for
rent and operating expense escalations resulting from increased assessments for
real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense, net of sublease rental
income, was $423 million, $416 million and $296 million in fiscal 2001, fiscal
2000 and fiscal 1999, respectively.

The Company has an agreement with IBM Corporation, expiring in June 2005, under
which the Company receives information processing, data networking and related
services. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company has an aggregate
minimum annual calendar year commitment of $120 million through 2004 and a $60
million calendar year commitment in 2005, subject to annual cost-of-living
adjustments.

In fiscal 2001, the Company sold a 1 million-square-foot office tower in New
York City that has been under construction since 1999. Under the terms of the
sale agreement, the Company is obligated to complete the construction of the
building, which is expected to occur in mid-2002.

At November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, the Company had approximately $4.5
billion and $6.1 billion, respectively, of letters of credit outstanding to
satisfy various collateral requirements.

The Company has commitments to fund certain fixed assets and other less liquid
investments, including at November 30, 2001 approximately $800 million in
connection with its private equity and other principal investment activities.
Additionally, the Company has provided and will continue to provide financing,
including margin lending and other extensions of credit to clients (including
subordinated loans on an interim basis to companies associated with its
investment banking and its private equity and other principal investment
activities), that may subject the Company to increased credit and liquidity
risks.

In connection with its aircraft financing business, the Company has entered
into agreements to purchase aircraft and related equipment. As of November 30,
2001, the aggregate amount of such purchase commitments was




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

$564 million. Approximately 80% of the aircraft to be acquired under these
purchase obligations are subject to contractual lease arrangements.

At November 30, 2001, the Company had contracted to receive the following
minimum rentals under operating leases in connection with its aircraft
financing activities:



In connection with certain of its business activities, the Company provides, on
a selective basis, through certain of its subsidiaries (including Morgan
Stanley Bank) financing or financing commitments to companies in the form of
senior and subordinated debt, including bridge financing. The borrowers may be
rated investment grade or non-investment grade. These loans and funding
commitments typically are secured against the borrower's assets (in the case of
senior loans), have varying maturity dates and are generally contingent upon
certain representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to
the borrower. As part of these activities, the Company may syndicate and trade
certain of these loans. At November 30, 2001, the Company provided commitments
associated with these activities to investment grade issuers aggregating $6.3
billion and commitments to non-investment grade issuers aggregating $0.8
billion. Since these commitments may expire unused, the total commitment amount
does not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements.

Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased represent obligations of the
Company to deliver specified financial instruments at contracted prices,
thereby creating commitments to purchase the financial instruments in the
market at prevailing prices. Consequently, the Company's ultimate obligation to
satisfy the sale of financial instruments sold, not yet purchased may exceed
the amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

In the normal course of business, the Company has been named as a defendant in
various lawsuits and has been involved in certain investigations and
proceedings. Some of these matters involve claims for substantial amounts.
Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be ascertained at this
time, it is the opinion of management, after consultation with counsel, that
the resolution of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition of the Company but may be material to the
Company's operating results for any particular period, depending, upon other
things, on the level of the Company's income for such period.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

9.   Earnings per Share.

Earnings per share were calculated as follows (in millions, except for per
share data):





10.   Trading Activities.

Trading Revenues.  The Company's trading activities are conducted through the
integrated management of its client-driven and proprietary transactions, along
with the hedging and financing of these positions. While trading activities are
generated by client order flow, the Company also takes proprietary positions
based on expectations of future market movements and conditions.

The Company manages its trading businesses by product groupings and, therefore,
has established distinct, worldwide trading divisions having responsibility for
equity, fixed income, foreign exchange and commodities




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

products. Because of the integrated nature of the markets for such products,
each product area trades cash instruments as well as related derivative
products (e.g., options, swaps, futures, forwards and other contracts with
respect to such underlying instruments or commodities). Principal transaction
trading revenues are summarized below by trading division:



Interest and dividend revenue and interest expense and commissions are integral
components of trading activities. In assessing the profitability of trading
activities, the Company views net interest, commissions and principal trading
revenues in the aggregate.

The Company's trading portfolios are managed with a view toward the risk and
profitability of the portfolios to the Company. The nature of the equities,
fixed income, foreign exchange and commodities activities conducted by the
Company, including the use of derivative products in these businesses, and the
market, credit and concentration risk management policies and procedures
covering these activities are discussed below.

Equities.  The Company makes markets and trades in the global secondary markets
for equities and convertible debt and is a dealer in equity warrants, exchange
traded and OTC equity options, index futures, equity swaps and other
sophisticated equity derivatives. The Company's activities as a dealer
primarily are client-driven, with the objective of meeting clients' needs while
earning a spread between the premiums paid or received on its contracts with
clients and the cost of hedging such transactions in the cash or forward market
or with other derivative transactions. The Company limits its market risk
related to these contracts, which stems primarily from underlying equity/index
price and volatility movements, by employing a variety of hedging strategies.
The Company also takes proprietary positions in the global equity markets by
using derivatives, most commonly futures and options, in addition to cash
positions, intending to profit from market price and volatility movements in
the underlying equities or indices positioned.

The counterparties to the Company's equity transactions include commercial
banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, investment funds and industrial
companies.

Fixed Income.  The Company trades and makes markets in domestic and
international fixed income securities and related products, including preferred
stock, investment grade corporate debt, high-yield securities, senior loans,
U.S. and non-U.S. government securities, municipal securities, and commercial
paper, money market and other short-term securities. The Company also makes
markets in, and acts as principal with respect to, mortgage-related and other
asset-backed securities and real estate loan products and provides financing to
customers for commercial, residential and real estate loan products.

The Company is a dealer in interest rate and currency swaps and other related
derivative products, credit derivatives (including credit default swaps), OTC
options on U.S. and non-U.S. government bonds, and mortgage-backed forward
agreements, options and swaps. The Company also acts as principal in aircraft
finance transactions, under which the Company acquires aircraft outright or
under leases.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


The counterparties to the Company's fixed income transactions include
investment advisors, commercial banks, insurance companies, broker-dealers,
investment funds and industrial companies.

Foreign Exchange.  The Company is a market-maker in a number of foreign
currencies. It actively trades currencies with its customers on a principal
basis in the spot, forward and currency option markets earning a dealer spread.
In connection with its market-making activities, the Company seeks to manage
its market risk by entering into offsetting positions. The Company also takes
proprietary positions in currencies to profit from market price and volatility
movements in the currencies positioned.

The majority of the Company's foreign exchange business relates to major
foreign currencies such as yen, euros, pounds sterling, Swiss francs and
Canadian dollars. The balance of the business covers a broad range of other
currencies.

The counterparties to the Company's foreign exchange transactions include
commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, investment funds and
industrial companies.

Commodities.  The Company, as a major participant in the world commodities
markets, trades in physical precious, base and platinum group metals,
electricity, energy products (principally crude oil, refined oil products and
natural gas) as well as a variety of derivatives related to these commodities
such as futures, forwards, and exchange traded and OTC options and swaps.
Through these activities, the Company provides clients with a ready market to
satisfy end users' current raw material needs and facilitates their ability to
hedge price fluctuations related to future inventory needs.

To facilitate hedging for its clients, the Company often is required to take
positions in the commodity markets in the form of forward, option and swap
contracts involving oil, natural gas, precious and base metals, and
electricity. The Company also maintains proprietary trading positions in
commodity derivatives, including futures, forwards and options in addition to
physical commodities, to profit from price and volatility movements in the
underlying commodities markets.

The counterparties to the Company's OTC commodity business include precious
metals producers, refiners and consumers as well as shippers, central banks,
and oil, gas and electricity producers.

The following discussions of risk management, market risk, credit risk,
concentration risk and customer activities relate to the Company's trading
activities.

Risk Management.  Risk management at the Company is a multi-faceted process
with independent oversight that requires constant communication, judgment and
knowledge of specialized products and markets. The Company's senior management
takes an active role in the risk management process and has developed policies
and procedures that require specific administrative and business functions to
assist in the identification, assessment and control of various risks. In
recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global
financial services business, the Company's risk management policies, procedures
and methodologies are evolutionary in nature and are subject to ongoing review
and modification. Many of the Company's risk management and control practices
are subject to periodic review by the Company's Internal Audit Department as
well as to interactions with various regulatory authorities.

The Management Committee, composed of the Company's most senior officers,
establishes the overall risk management policies for the Company and reviews
the Company's performance relative to these policies. The




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

Management Committee has created several Risk Committees to assist it in
monitoring and reviewing the Company's risk management practices. These Risk
Committees, as well as other committees established to manage and monitor
specific risks, review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and
procedures relating to the Company's market and credit risk profile, sales
practices, legal enforceability, and operational and systems risks. The Market
Risk, Credit Risk, Controllers, Treasury, and Law and Compliance Departments,
which are all independent of the Company's business units, assist senior
management and the Risk Committees in monitoring and controlling the Company's
risk profile. The Market Risk and Credit Risk Departments have operational
responsibility for measuring and monitoring aggregate market risk and credit
risk, respectively, with respect to the Company's institutional trading
activities and are responsible for risk policy development, risk analysis and
risk reporting to senior management and the Risk Committees. In addition, the
Internal Audit Department, which also reports to senior management,
periodically examines and evaluates the Company's operations and control
environment. The Company is committed to employing qualified personnel with
appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas
to implement effectively the Company's risk management and monitoring systems
and processes.

Market Risk.  Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one
or more market prices, rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other
market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or
portfolio.

The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a
Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual
product basis. Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Company
and for each major trading division of the Company worldwide. Additional market
risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and
regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the
Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in
accordance with policies set by senior management.

The Market Risk Department independently reviews the Company's trading
portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing
Value-at-Risk and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and
analyses. The Company's trading businesses and the Market Risk Department also
use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates,
prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk
exposures. Stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing
portfolios of specified changes in market factors for certain products, is
performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk
risk managers and the Market Risk Department. Reports summarizing material risk
exposures are produced by the Market Risk Department and are disseminated to
senior management.

Credit Risk.  The Company's exposure to credit risk arises from the possibility
that a customer or counterparty to a transaction might fail to perform under
its contractual commitment, which could result in the Company incurring losses.
The Company has credit guidelines that limit the Company's current and
potential credit exposure to any one customer or counterparty and to aggregates
of customers or counterparties by type of business activity. Specific credit
risk limits based on these credit guidelines also are in place for each type of
customer or counterparty (by rating category).

The Credit Risk Department administers limits, monitors credit exposure and
periodically reviews the financial soundness of customers and counterparties on
a worldwide basis. The Company manages the credit exposure relating to its
trading activities in various ways, including entering into master netting
agreements, collateral arrangements, and limiting the duration of exposure.
Risk is mitigated in certain cases by closing out transactions, entering into
risk-reducing transactions, assigning transactions to other parties, or
purchasing credit protection.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Concentration Risk.  The Company is subject to concentration risk by holding
large positions in certain types of securities or commitments to purchase
securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other
entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic area, public
and private issuers involving developing countries or issuers engaged in a
particular industry. Financial instruments owned by the Company include U.S.
government and agency securities and securities issued by other sovereign
governments (principally Germany, Japan, Italy and the United Kingdom), which,
in the aggregate, represented approximately 10% of the Company's total assets
at November 30, 2001. In addition, substantially all of the collateral held by
the Company for resale agreements or bonds borrowed, which together represented
approximately 23% of the Company's total assets at November 30, 2001, consist
of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal agencies or other
sovereign government obligations. Positions taken and commitments made by the
Company, including positions taken and underwriting and financing commitments
made in connection with its private equity and principal investment activities,
often involve substantial amounts and significant exposure to individual
issuers and businesses, including non-investment grade issuers. The Company
seeks to limit concentration risk through the use of the systems and procedures
described in the preceding discussions of risk management, market risk and
credit risk.

Customer Activities.  The Company's customer activities involve the execution,
settlement and financing of various securities and commodities transactions on
behalf of customers. Customer securities activities are transacted on either a
cash or margin basis. Customer commodities activities, which include the
execution of customer transactions in commodity futures transactions (including
options on futures), are transacted on a margin basis.

The Company's customer activities may expose it to off-balance sheet credit
risk. The Company may have to purchase or sell financial instruments at
prevailing market prices in the event of the failure of a customer to settle a
trade on its original terms or in the event cash and securities in customer
margin accounts are not sufficient to fully cover customer losses. The Company
seeks to control the risks associated with customer activities by requiring
customers to maintain margin collateral in compliance with various regulations
and Company policies.

Fair Value of Derivatives.  The fair value (carrying amount) of derivative
instruments represents the cost of replacing these instruments and is further
described in Note 2. Future changes in interest rates, foreign currency
exchange rates or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities or
indices underlying these contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements
exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of
financial condition. The amounts in the following table represent unrealized
gains on purchased exchange-traded and OTC options and other contracts
(including interest rate, foreign exchange, and other forward contracts and
swaps), net of any unrealized losses owed to the counterparties on offsetting
positions in situations where netting is appropriate. These amounts are not
reported net of collateral, which the Company obtains with respect to certain
of these transactions to reduce its exposure to credit losses.

Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a
counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The Company's
exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value
of the contracts reported as assets. The Company monitors the creditworthiness
of counterparties to these transactions on an ongoing basis and requests
additional collateral when deemed necessary. The Company believes the ultimate
settlement of the transactions outstanding at November 30, 2001 will not have a
material effect on the Company's financial condition.





                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

The credit quality of the Company's trading-related derivatives (both listed
and over-the-counter) at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000 is summarized
in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets by
counterparty credit rating. The actual credit ratings are determined by
external rating agencies or by equivalent ratings used by the Company's Credit
Risk Department:








                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


11.  Preferred Stock, Capital Units and Preferred Securities Issued by
Subsidiaries.

Preferred stock of the Company was composed of the following issues:



In fiscal 2001, the Company redeemed all 1,000,000 outstanding shares of its 7-
3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $200 per share. The
Company also simultaneously redeemed all corresponding Depositary Shares at a
redemption price of $50 per Depositary Share. Each Depositary Share represented
1/4 of a share of the Company's 7-3/4% Cumulative Preferred Stock.

Subsequent to November 30, 2001, on December 3, 2001, the Company redeemed all
1,725,000 outstanding shares of its Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative
Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $200 per share. The Company also
simultaneously redeemed all corresponding Depositary Shares at a redemption
price of $50 per Depositary Share. Each Depositary Share represented 1/4 of a
share of the Company's Series A Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred
Stock.

The Company has Capital Units outstanding that were issued by the Company and
Morgan Stanley Finance plc ("MSF"), a U.K. subsidiary. A Capital Unit consists
of (a) a Subordinated Debenture of MSF guaranteed by the Company and maturing
in 2017 and (b) a related Purchase Contract issued by the Company, which may be
accelerated by the Company, requiring the holder to purchase one Depositary
Share representing shares (or fractional shares) of the Company's Cumulative
Preferred Stock. The aggregate amount of Capital Units outstanding was $66
million and $70 million at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000,
respectively.

MSDW Capital Trust I, a consolidated Delaware statutory business trust (the
"Capital Trust I"), all of the common securities of which are owned by the
Company, has $400 million of 7.10% Capital Securities (the "Capital Securities
I") outstanding that are guaranteed by the Company. The Capital Trust I issued
the Capital Securities I and invested the proceeds in 7.10% Junior Subordinated
Deferrable Interest Debentures issued by the Company, which are due February
28, 2038.

In fiscal 2001, Morgan Stanley Capital Trust II, a consolidated Delaware
statutory business trust (the "Capital Trust II"), all of the common securities
of which are owned by the Company, issued $810 million of 7-1/4% Capital
Securities (the "Capital Securities II") that are guaranteed by the Company.
The Capital Trust II issued the Capital Securities II and invested the proceeds
in 7-1/4% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures issued by the
Company, which are due July 31, 2031.

12.  Shareholders' Equity.

MS&Co. and MSDWI are registered broker-dealers and registered futures
commission merchants and, accordingly, are subject to the minimum net capital
requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock
Exchange and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS&Co. and MSDWI have
consistently operated in excess of these requirements. MS&Co.'s net capital
totaled $5,159 million at November 30, 2001, which exceeded the amount required
by $4,454 million. MSDWI's net capital totaled




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

$1,495 million at November 30, 2001, which exceeded the amount required by
$1,370 million. MSIL, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to
the capital requirements of the Financial Services Authority, and MSJL, a
Tokyo-based broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements of the
Financial Services Agency. MSIL and MSJL have consistently operated in excess
of their respective regulatory capital requirements.

Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ("FDIC") and other bank regulatory agencies, FDIC-insured financial
institutions must maintain (a) 3% to 5% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to
average assets ("leverage ratio"), (b) 4% of Tier 1 capital, as defined, to
risk-weighted assets ("Tier 1 risk-weighted capital ratio") and (c) 8% of total
capital, as defined, to risk-weighted assets ("total risk-weighted capital
ratio"). At November 30, 2001, the leverage ratio, Tier 1 risk-weighted capital
ratio and total risk-weighted capital ratio of each of the Company's
FDIC-insured financial institutions exceeded these regulatory minimums.

Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities,
commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements
promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of the countries in
which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of
their local capital adequacy requirements. Morgan Stanley Derivative Products
Inc., the Company's triple-A rated derivative products subsidiary, maintains
certain operating restrictions that have been reviewed by various rating
agencies.

The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain covenants
contained in various agreements governing indebtedness of the Company, may
restrict the Company's ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries. At
November 30, 2001, approximately $6.5 billion of net assets of consolidated
subsidiaries may be restricted as to the payment of cash dividends and advances
to the Company.

Cumulative translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from
translating foreign currency financial statements from their respective
functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of hedge gains or losses and related
tax effects. The Company uses foreign currency contracts and designates certain
non-U.S. dollar currency debt as hedges to manage the currency exposure
relating to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency
subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the value of the Company's net foreign
investments generally are tax deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge
gains and losses are taxable currently. The Company attempts to protect its net
book value from the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on its
net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar subsidiaries by selling the
appropriate non-U.S. dollar currency in the forward market. However, under some
circumstances, the Company may elect not to hedge its net monetary investments
in certain foreign operations due to market conditions, including the
availability of various currency contracts at acceptable costs. Information
relating to the hedging of the Company's net monetary investments in non-U.S.
dollar functional currency subsidiaries and their effects on cumulative
translation adjustments is summarized below:






                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


13.  Employee Compensation Plans.

The Company has adopted a variety of compensation plans for certain of its
employees. These plans are designed to facilitate a pay-for-performance policy,
provide compensation commensurate with other leading financial services
companies and provide for internal stock ownership in order to align the
interests of employees with the long-term interests of the Company's
shareholders. Certain of these plans are summarized below.

Equity-Based Compensation Plans.  The Company is authorized to issue up to
approximately 618 million shares of its common stock in connection with awards
under its equity-based compensation plans. At November 30, 2001, approximately
243 million shares were available for future grant under these plans.

Stock Option Awards.  Stock option awards have been granted pursuant to several
equity-based compensation plans. Historically, these plans have generally
provided for the granting of stock options having an exercise price not less
than the fair value of the Company's common stock (as defined in the plans) on
the date of grant. Such options generally become exercisable over a one- to
five-year period and expire seven to 10 years from the date of grant.

The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company's stock option
awards (share data in millions):


- --------
(1)Amounts include stock options granted to employees subsequent to fiscal
   year-end but as part of year-end compensation for the fiscal year.

The following table presents information relating to the Company's stock
options outstanding at November 30, 2001 (share data in millions):






                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Deferred Compensation Awards.  The Company has made deferred compensation
awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans. These plans provide
for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees' compensation with
payments made in the form of the Company's common stock or in the right to
receive unrestricted shares (collectively, "Restricted Stock"). Compensation
expense for all such awards (including those subject to forfeiture) amounted to
$612 million, $855 million and $699 million in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and
fiscal 1999, respectively. Compensation expense for Restricted Stock awards was
determined based on the fair value of the Company's common stock (as defined in
the plans). The number of Restricted Stock shares outstanding was 96 million at
November 30, 2001 and 115 million at both November 30, 2000 and November 30,
1999.

Restricted Stock awarded under these plans are subject to restrictions on sale,
transfer or assignment until the end of a specified restriction period,
generally five to 10 years from the date of grant. Holders of Restricted Stock
generally may forfeit ownership of all or a portion of their award if
employment is terminated before the end of the relevant restriction period.
Holders of vested Restricted Stock generally will also forfeit ownership in
certain limited situations, including termination for cause during the
restriction period.

Profit Sharing Plans.  The Company sponsors qualified profit sharing plans
covering substantially all U.S. employees and also provides cash payment of
profit sharing to employees of its international subsidiaries. Contributions
are made to eligible employees at the discretion of the Board of Directors
based upon the financial performance of the Company. Profit sharing expense for
fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999 was $149 million, $182 million and
$153 million, respectively.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan.  The Company has a $140 million leveraged
employee stock ownership plan, funded through an independently managed trust.
The Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") was established to broaden internal
ownership of the Company and to provide benefits to its employees in a
cost-effective manner. In January 2000, each share of the ESOP Convertible
Preferred Stock was converted into 6.6 common shares of the Company. The ESOP
trust funded its stock purchase through a loan of $140 million from the
Company. The ESOP trust note, due September 19, 2005 (extendible at the option
of the ESOP trust to September 19, 2010), bears a 10- 3/8% interest rate per
annum with principal payable without penalty on or before the due date. The
ESOP trust expects to make principal and interest payments on the note from
funds provided by dividends on the shares of common stock and contributions
from the Company, if required. The note receivable from the ESOP trust is
reflected as a reduction in the Company's shareholders' equity. Shares
allocated to employees generally may not be withdrawn until the employee's
death, disability, retirement or termination. Contributions to the ESOP by the
Company and allocation of ESOP shares to employees are made annually at the
discretion of the Board of Directors based on the financial performance of the
Company. The cost of shares allocated to participants' accounts amounted to $13
million in fiscal 2001, $11 million in fiscal 2000 and $5 million in fiscal
1999. The ESOP debt service costs for fiscal 2001 and fiscal 1999 were paid
from dividends received on stock held by the ESOP trust and from Company
contributions. The ESOP debt service costs for fiscal 2000 were paid from
dividends received on stock held by the ESOP trust.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Pro Forma Effect of SFAS No. 123.  Had the Company elected to recognize
compensation cost pursuant to SFAS No. 123 for its stock option plans and its
employee stock purchase plan, net income would have been reduced by $375
million, $488 million and $327 million for fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal
1999, respectively, resulting in pro forma net income and earnings per share as
follows:



The weighted average fair value at date of grant for stock options granted
during fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999 was $26.43, $30.48 and $23.58
per option, respectively. The fair value of stock options at date of grant was
estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model utilizing the following
weighted average assumptions:



14.  Employee Benefit Plans.

The Company sponsors various pension plans for the majority of its worldwide
employees. The Company provides certain other postretirement benefits,
primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible employees. The Company
also provides certain benefits to former employees or inactive employees prior
to retirement. The following summarizes these plans:

Pension Plans.  Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Company and its
U.S. affiliates are covered by non-contributory pension plans that are
qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Qualified
Plans"). Unfunded supplementary plans (the "Supplemental Plans") cover certain
executives. In addition to the Qualified Plans and the Supplemental Plans
(collectively, the "U.S. Plans"), certain of the Company's international
subsidiaries also have pension plans covering substantially all of their
employees. These pension plans generally provide pension benefits that are
based on each employee's years of credited service and on compensation levels
specified in the plans. For the Qualified Plans and the other international
plans, the Company's policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet
minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax
regulations. Liabilities for benefits payable under the Supplemental Plans are
accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.





                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

The following tables present information for the Company's pension plans on an
aggregate basis.

Pension expense included the following components:



The following table provides the assumptions used in determining the Company's
benefit obligation for the U.S. Plans:



The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the U.S. Plans'
benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for fiscal 2001 and fiscal
2000 as well as a summary of the U.S. Plans' funded status at November 30, 2001
and November 30, 2000:






                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


For the Supplemental Plans, the aggregate accumulated benefit obligation was
$126 million and $91 million at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000,
respectively.

The Company also maintains separate defined contribution pension plans that
cover substantially all employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under such
plans, benefits are determined by the purchasing power of the accumulated value
of contributions paid. In fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999, the
Company's expense related to these plans was $68 million, $46 million and $27
million, respectively.

Postretirement Benefits.  The Company has unfunded postretirement benefit plans
that provide medical and life insurance for eligible retirees and dependents.
At November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000, the Company's accrued
postretirement benefit liability was $112 million and $106 million,
respectively.

Postemployment Benefits.  Postemployment benefits include, but are not limited
to, salary continuation, severance benefits, disability-related benefits, and
continuation of health care and life insurance coverage provided to former
employees or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. These
benefits were not material to the Company's consolidated financial statements
in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999.

15.  Income Taxes.

The provision for income taxes consisted of:



The following table reconciles the provision to the U.S. federal statutory
income tax rate:



As of November 30, 2001, the Company had approximately $4.7 billion of earnings
attributable to foreign subsidiaries for which no provisions have been recorded
for income tax that could occur upon repatriation. Except to the extent such
earnings can be repatriated tax efficiently, they are permanently invested
abroad. It is not practicable to determine the amount of income taxes payable
in the event all such foreign earnings are repatriated.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are
measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
differences are expected to reverse. Significant components of the Company's
deferred tax assets and liabilities at November 30, 2001 and November 30, 2000
were as follows:



Cash paid for income taxes was $910 million, $3,401 million and $1,736 million
in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999, respectively.

The Company recorded income tax benefits of $460 million, $467 million and $367
million related to employee stock compensation transactions in fiscal 2001,
fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999, respectively. Such benefits were credited to
paid-in capital.

16.  Segment and Geographic Information.

Pursuant to SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information," which establishes standards for disclosures that relate
to business operating segments ("segments"), the Company structures its
segments primarily based upon the nature of the financial products and services
provided to customers and the Company's management organization. The Company
operates in three business segments: Securities, Investment Management and
Credit Services through which it provides a wide range of financial products
and services to its customers.

The Company's Securities business includes securities underwriting and
distribution; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and
acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; full-service
brokerage services; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in
equity securities and related products and fixed income securities and related
products, including foreign exchange and commodities; principal investing,
including private equity activities; and aircraft financing activities. The
Company's Investment Management business provides global asset management
products and services for individual and institutional investors through three
principal distribution channels: the Company's financial advisors and
investment representatives; a non-proprietary channel consisting of third-party
broker-dealers, banks, financial planners and other intermediaries; and the
Company's institutional channel. The Company's Credit Services business
includes the issuance of the Discover Classic Card, the Discover Gold Card, the
Discover Platinum Card, the Morgan Stanley Card and other proprietary general
purpose credit cards; and the operation of Discover Business Services, a
proprietary network of merchant and cash access locations in the U.S.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Revenues and expenses directly associated with each respective segment are
included in determining their operating results. Other revenues and expenses
that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated based
upon the Company's allocation methodologies, generally based on each segment's
respective revenues or other relevant measures. Selected financial information
for the Company's segments is presented in the table below:

- --------
(1)Credit Services business segment information includes the operating results
   of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Credit Corporation ("MSDWCC"). Prior to fiscal
   2001, the Company had included MSDWCC's results within its Securities
   business segment. In addition, the operating results of the Investment
   Management business segment includes certain revenues and expenses
   associated with the Company's Investment Consulting Services business. Prior
   to fiscal 2001, such revenues and expenses were included within the
   Company's Securities business segment. The selected financial information
   for fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999 have been restated to reflect these changes.
(2)Corporate assets have been fully allocated to the Company's business
   segments.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


The Company operates in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The Company's non-U.S.
business activities are principally conducted through European and Asian
locations. The following table presents selected income statement information
and the total assets of the Company's operations by geographic area. The
principal methodologies used in preparing the geographic area data are as
follows: commission revenues are recorded based on the location of the sales
force; trading revenues are principally recorded based on location of the
trader; investment banking revenues are based on location of the client; and
asset management and portfolio service fees are recorded based on the location
of the portfolio manager:



17.   Business Acquisitions and Disposition.

In fiscal 2001, the Company acquired Quilter Holdings Limited ("Quilter").
Quilter is a well-established U.K.-based investment management business
providing segregated account management and advisory services to private
individuals, pension funds and trusts. The Company's fiscal 2001 results
include the operations of Quilter since March 13, 2001, the date of acquisition.

In fiscal 2000, the Company acquired Ansett Worldwide, one of the world's
leading aircraft leasing groups, leasing new and used commercial jet aircraft
to airlines around the world. The Company's fiscal 2000 results include the
operations of Ansett Worldwide since April 27, 2000, the date of acquisition.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998, the Company sold its Global Custody
business to The Chase Manhattan Corporation ("Chase"). At that time, the
Company recorded a pre-tax gain of $323 million from the sale. Such gain
included estimates for certain payments and purchase price adjustments which,
under certain circumstances pursuant to the sales agreement, were payable by
the Company to Chase. As a result of the resolution of these payments and
purchase price adjustments during fiscal 2000, the Company recorded an
additional pre-tax gain of $35 million related to the sale of its Global
Custody business.




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


In fiscal 1999, the Company acquired Morgan Stanley, S.V., S.A. (formerly AB
Asesores), the largest independent financial services firm in Spain. The
Company's fiscal 1999 results include the operations of Morgan Stanley, S.V.,
S.A. since March 25, 1999, the date of acquisition.

The pro forma impact of each of the above acquisitions was not material to the
Company's consolidated financial statements.

18.  Terrorist Attacks.

On September 11, 2001, the U.S. experienced terrorist attacks targeted against
New York City and Washington, D.C. The attacks in New York resulted in the
destruction of the World Trade Center complex, where approximately 3,700 of the
Company's employees were located, and the temporary closing of the debt and
equity financial markets in the U.S. Through the implementation of its business
recovery plans, the Company relocated its displaced employees to other
facilities.

The terrorist attacks had an immediate adverse impact on global economies,
financial markets and certain industries, including the global aviation
industry. These conditions had an adverse impact on the Company's results of
operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, including an asset impairment
charge and higher expenses associated with its aircraft financing activities.
In addition to the immediate impact, there is much uncertainty regarding the
potential long-term impact of these attacks. In the future, fears of global
recession, war and additional acts of terrorism in the aftermath of the
September 11, 2001 attacks may continue to impact global economies and
financial markets.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company recorded costs related to
the terrorist attacks, which were offset by an expected insurance recovery.
These costs and the related expected insurance recovery pertain to write-offs
of leasehold improvements and destroyed technology and telecommunications
equipment in the World Trade Center complex, employee relocation and certain
employee-related expenditures, and other business recovery costs.

19.  Asset Impairment.

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 (see Note 18) had an adverse impact
on the global aviation industry, including the Company's aircraft financing
business. As a result of these conditions, and in accordance with SFAS No. 121,
the Company incurred a non-cash pre-tax charge of $87 million in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2001 to reflect the impairment of certain aircraft. The fair
values of the affected aircraft were obtained from independent appraisals. The
impairment charge is reflected in "other expenses" in the Company's
consolidated statements of income. The results of the aircraft financing
business are included in the Company's "Securities" business segment (see Note
16).




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

20.  Quarterly Results (unaudited).


- --------
(1)Certain reclassifications have been made to previously reported fiscal 2000
   quarterly amounts.
(2)Summation of the quarters' earnings per common share may not equal the
   annual amounts due to the averaging effect of the number of shares and share
   equivalents throughout the year.
(3)Amounts represent the range of closing prices per share on the New York
   Stock Exchange for the periods indicated. The number of shareholders of
   record at November 30, 2001 approximated 146,000. The number of beneficial
   owners of common stock is believed to exceed this number.




Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure.  None.

                                   Part III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.  The information
relating to directors and nominees of Morgan Stanley is set forth under the
caption "Item 1--Election of Directors" in Morgan Stanley's proxy statement for
its 2002 annual meeting of shareholders ("Morgan Stanley's Proxy Statement")
and is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation.   The information relating to executive
compensation is set forth under the captions "Summary compensation table,"
"Option grants in last fiscal year," "Aggregated option exercises in last
fiscal year and fiscal year-end option values," "Pension plans" and "Director
compensation" in Morgan Stanley's Proxy Statement and such information is
incorporated by reference herein.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.
The information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is set forth under the caption "Beneficial ownership of Company
common stock" in Morgan Stanley's Proxy Statement and such information is
incorporated by reference herein.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.  The information
regarding certain relationships and related transactions is set forth under the
caption "Certain transactions" in Morgan Stanley's Proxy Statement and such
information is incorporated by reference herein.

                                    Part IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a)  Documents filed as part of this Report.

1.   Financial Statements. The financial statements required to be filed
hereunder are listed on page S-1.

2.   Financial Statement Schedules. The financial statement schedules required
to be filed hereunder are listed on page S-1.

3.   Exhibits. An exhibit index has been filed as part of this Report beginning
on page E-1 and is incorporated herein by reference.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.  A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 21,
2001, was filed with the SEC in connection with the announcement that John E.
Jacob had been elected as a director and of Morgan Stanley's third quarter
financial results.




                                  Signatures

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 14, 2002.

                                          MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                                          (REGISTRANT)

                                          By:   /S/   PHILIP J. PURCELL
                                             ----------------------------------
                                                (Philip J. Purcell)
                                                Chairman of the Board and
                                                Chief Executive Officer

                               Power of Attorney

We, the undersigned directors and executive officers of Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co., hereby severally constitute Donald G. Kempf, Jr., Stephen S.
Crawford and Ronald T. Carman, and each of them singly, our true and lawful
attorneys with full power to them and each of them to sign for us, and in our
names in the capacities indicated below, any and all amendments to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said
attorneys to any and all amendments to said Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 14th day of February, 2002.

        Signature                                Title
        ---------                                -----

  /S/  PHILIP J. PURCELL       Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
 ------------------------
   (Philip J. Purcell)

   /S/  ROBERT G. SCOTT        President, Chief Operating Officer and Director
 ------------------------
    (Robert G. Scott)


 /S/  STEPHEN S. CRAWFORD      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
 ------------------------        Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
  (Stephen S. Crawford)

     /S/  JOANNE PACE          Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)
 ------------------------
      (Joanne Pace)

  /S/  ROBERT P. BAUMAN                         Director
 ------------------------
    (Robert P. Bauman)

  /S/  EDWARD A. BRENNAN                        Director
 ------------------------
   (Edward A. Brennan)

    /S/  JOHN E. JACOB                          Director
 ------------------------
     (John E. Jacob)




          Signature                               Title
          ---------                               -----

    /S/  C. ROBERT KIDDER                        Director
  -------------------------
     (C. Robert Kidder)

   /S/  CHARLES F. KNIGHT                        Director
  -------------------------
     (Charles F. Knight)

    /S/  JOHN W. MADIGAN                         Director
  -------------------------
      (John W. Madigan)

     /S/  MILES L. MARSH                         Director
  -------------------------
      (Miles L. Marsh)

    /S/  MICHAEL A. MILES                        Director
  -------------------------
     (Michael A. Miles)

  /S/  LAURA D'ANDREA TYSON                      Director
  -------------------------
   (Laura D'Andrea Tyson)




                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.

                       INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                        ITEMS (14)(a)(1) AND (14)(a)(2)




                                      S-1



                                                                     SCHEDULE I

                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)

                  Condensed Statements of Financial Condition
                   (dollars in millions, except share data)



                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

                                      S-2



                                                                     SCHEDULE I

                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)

            Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income
                             (dollars in millions)




                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

                                      S-3



                                                                     SCHEDULE I

                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)

                      Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
                             (dollars in millions)



                 See Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.

                                      S-4



                       MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.
                             (Parent Company Only)

                    NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  Introduction and Basis of Presentation

  Basis of Financial Information

   The accompanying condensed financial statements (the "Parent Company
Financial Statements"), including the notes thereto, should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. (the "Company") and the notes thereto found on pages 64 to 101 of
the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders which is included in this Form 10-K.

   The Parent Company Financial Statements for the 12 months ended November 30,
2001 ("fiscal 2001"), November 30, 2000 ("fiscal 2000") and November 30, 1999
("fiscal 1999") are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the U.S., which require management to make estimates and
assumptions regarding valuations of certain financial instruments, the
potential outcome of litigation and other matters that affect the Parent
Company Financial Statements and related disclosures. Management believes that
the estimates utilized in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial
Statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ materially
from these estimates.

   Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-year amounts to conform to
the current presentation. All material intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated.

  Employee Stock Ownership Plan

   The Company has a $140 million leveraged employee stock ownership plan,
funded through an independently managed trust. The Employee Stock Ownership
Plan ("ESOP") was established to broaden internal ownership of the Company and
to provide benefits to its employees in a cost-effective manner.

   In January 2000, each share of the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock was
converted into 6.6 common shares of the Company.

2.  Transactions with Subsidiaries

   The Company has transactions with its consolidated subsidiaries determined
on an agreed-upon basis and has guaranteed certain unsecured lines of credit
and contractual obligations of certain of its consolidated subsidiaries.

   The Company received cash dividends from its consolidated subsidiaries
totaling $3,647 million, $3,020 million and $3,566 million in fiscal 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively.

3.  Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Subsidiaries

   The Company has two consolidated Delaware statutory business trusts (MSDW
Capital Trust I and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust II) that have issued an
aggregate $1.2 billion of Capital Securities (see Note 11 to the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements). These Capital Securities are guaranteed by
the Company.

                                      S-5



                         INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.:

   We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Morgan Stanley Dean
Witter & Co. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of fiscal years ended November
30, 2001 and 2000, and for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended
November 30, 2001, and have issued our report thereon dated January 11, 2002;
such consolidated financial statements and report are included in your 2001
Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our audits also included Schedule I listed in the
Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules. These
financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion, based on our audits, the condensed financial statement schedules
of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co. (Parent Company Only), when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth herein.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

New York, New York
January 11, 2002

                                      S-6



================================================================================

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   EXHIBITS

                                      TO

                                   FORM 10-K

                  For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2001


                          Commission File No. 1-11758

                       Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.

================================================================================



                                 Exhibit Index

Certain of the following exhibits, as indicated parenthetically, were
previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley
or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or
to reports or registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its
predecessor companies under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the "Exchange Act"), respectively, and are hereby incorporated by reference to
such statements or reports. Morgan Stanley's Exchange Act file number is
1-11758. Prior to the Merger, Morgan Stanley Group's Exchange Act file number
was 1-9085./1/


- --------
(1)For purposes of this Exhibit Index, references to "JPMorgan Chase Bank" mean
   the entity formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, in some instances as
   the successor to Chemical Bank; references to "Bank One Trust Company, N.A."
   mean as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago; and references to
   "Discover Bank" mean the entity formerly known as Greenwood Trust Company.

                                      E-1





                                      E-2





                                      E-3




- --------
* Filed herewith.

+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
  as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c).

                                      E-4



[LOGO] [RECYCLED LOGO -- PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER]



