
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997



 
================================================================================
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
 
(MARK ONE)
[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
 
                                       OR
 
[ ]         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4174
 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
              Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                 (918) 588-2000
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
 
                                      None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]
 
     The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by
nonaffiliates as of the close of business on March 23, 1998, was approximately
$10.3 billion.
 
     The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding at March
23, 1998, was 323,219,054, excluding 6,541,475 shares held by the Company.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement prepared for the solicitation
of proxies in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company
for 1998 are incorporated by reference in Part III.
================================================================================

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
(a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS
 
     The Williams Companies, Inc. (the "Company" or "Williams") was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Nevada in 1949 and was reincorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in 1987. The principal executive offices of the
Company are located at One Williams Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172 (telephone
(918) 588-2000). Unless the context otherwise requires, references to the
"Company" and "Williams" herein include The Williams Companies, Inc. and its
subsidiaries.
 
     On November 24, 1997, the Company announced that it had entered into a
definitive merger agreement to acquire MAPCO Inc. ("MAPCO") in a stock-for-stock
transaction based upon a fixed exchange ratio of 1.665 shares of the Company's
Common Stock and .555 associated preferred stock purchase rights (adjusted to
reflect the Company's two-for-one stock split on December 29, 1997) for each
share of MAPCO Common Stock and associated preferred stock purchase rights. The
Company's and MAPCO's shareholders approved actions necessary to complete the
transaction at special stockholder meetings on February 26, 1998. See Note 19 to
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Federal Trade Commission
announced on March 27, 1998, that it would allow the parties to consummate the
transaction, and the parties closed the transaction on March 28, 1998.
 
     MAPCO is a Tulsa, Oklahoma-based diversified energy company. Subsidiaries
of MAPCO engage in the transportation by pipeline of natural gas liquids
("NGLs"), anhydrous ammonia, crude oil, and refined petroleum products; the
transportation by truck and rail of NGLs and refined petroleum products; the
refining of crude oil; the marketing and trading of NGLs, refined petroleum
products, and crude oil; NGL storage; and the marketing of motor fuel and
merchandise through convenience store operations. MAPCO's subsidiary,
Mid-America Pipeline Company, owns and operates 7,668 miles of pipeline and
related pumping, metering, and storage facilities. Subsidiaries of MAPCO also
own and operate two petroleum products refineries, one in Alaska, which markets
approximately 44,000 barrels of refined products per day in Alaska, Canada, and
the Pacific Rim, and one in Tennessee, which markets approximately 110,000
barrels of refined products per day. MAPCO's subsidiary, Thermogas Company, is
the fourth largest propane marketer in the United States and sells propane in 18
states to more than 350,000 customers. Its MAPCO Express subsidiaries operate
approximately 230 convenience stores and travel centers primarily in Tennessee
and Alaska. MAPCO also owns subsidiaries providing fleet operators with motor
fuel and data management and providing energy-related information services.
MAPCO also holds equity investments in other businesses.
 
     Management believes the acquisition furthers its strategy of seeking growth
through strategic acquisitions and alliances and that MAPCO's assets and
operations complement the Company's existing lines of business. Following the
acquisition, the Company will operate the MAPCO businesses through Williams
Energy Group.
 
     On January 5, 1998, the Company's three-year non-compete agreement
resulting from the 1995 sale of the network services operations of its
telecommunications subsidiary expired, and the Company announced plans to
re-enter the long-distance telecommunications market as a provider of wholesale
communications services over an 18,000-mile network expected to be in operation
by the beginning of 1999.
 
     In April 1997, the Company merged its wholly owned subsidiary, Williams
Telecommunications Systems, Inc. with Nortel Communications Systems, Inc., which
was a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Telecom, Inc. The Company holds a 70
percent interest in the newly formed entity, Williams Communications Solutions,
LLC. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     In January 1996, the Company acquired a 49.9 percent interest from its
partner in Kern River Gas Transmission Company giving the Company 99.9 percent
ownership of this natural gas pipeline system. The purchase price was $206
million. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company
acquired the remaining 0.1 percent interest in the partnership in February 1997,
for $387,600.
 

 
(b) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
     See Part II, Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
(c) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
     The Company, through subsidiaries, engages in the transportation and sale
of natural gas and related activities; natural gas gathering, processing, and
treating activities; the transportation and terminaling of petroleum products;
hydrocarbon exploration and production activities; the production and marketing
of ethanol; and energy commodity marketing and trading and provides a variety of
other products and services, including price risk management services, to the
energy industry. The Company also engages in the communications business. In
1997, the Company's energy subsidiaries owned and operated: (i) five interstate
natural gas pipeline systems; (ii) natural gas production properties; (iii)
natural gas gathering and processing facilities; (iv) a common carrier petroleum
products and crude oil pipeline system; (v) petroleum products terminals; and
(vi) ethanol production facilities. The Company's communications subsidiaries
offer: (i) data-, voice- and video-related products and services; (ii)
advertising distribution services; (iii) video services and other multimedia
services for the broadcast industry; (iv) enhanced facsimile and audio- and
videoconferencing services for businesses; (v) customer-premise voice and data
equipment, including installation, maintenance, and integration; and (vi)
network integration and management services nationwide. The Company also has
investments in the equity of certain other companies.
 
     Substantially all operations of Williams are conducted through
subsidiaries. Williams performs management, legal, financial, tax, consultative,
administrative, and other services for its subsidiaries. Williams' principal
sources of cash are from external financings, dividends and advances from its
subsidiaries, investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered and
interest payments from subsidiaries on cash advances. The amount of dividends
available to Williams from subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary's
earnings and operating capital requirements. The terms of certain subsidiaries'
borrowing arrangements limit the transfer of funds to the Company.
 
     To achieve organizational and operating efficiencies, the Company's
interstate natural gas pipelines are grouped together under its wholly owned
subsidiary, Williams Interstate Natural Gas Systems, Inc. All other operating
companies are owned by Williams Holdings of Delaware, Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company. The energy operations of Williams Holdings of
Delaware, Inc. are grouped into a wholly-owned subsidiary, Williams Energy
Group, and its communications operations are grouped into a wholly-owned
subsidiary, Williams Communications Group, Inc. Item 1 of this report is
formatted to reflect this structure.
 
                 WILLIAMS INTERSTATE NATURAL GAS SYSTEMS, INC.
 
     The Company's interstate natural gas pipeline group, comprised of Williams
Interstate Natural Gas Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries, owns and operates a
combined total of approximately 27,000 miles of pipelines with a total annual
throughput of approximately 3,700 TBtu* of natural gas and peak-day delivery
capacity of approximately 15 Bcf of natural gas. The interstate natural gas
pipeline group consists of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, Northwest
Pipeline Corporation, Kern River Gas Transmission Company, Texas Gas
Transmission Corporation and Williams Gas Pipelines Central, Inc. The pipeline
group also holds minority interests in joint venture interstate natural gas
pipeline systems. The Company acquired Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
Corporation and Texas Gas Transmission Corporation in 1995. For the accounting
treatment of the acquisition, see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. As noted above, the Company acquired an additional 49.9 percent
interest in Kern River Gas Transmission Company in January 1996 and the
remaining 0.1 percent interest in February 1997.
 
- - ---------------
 
* The term "Mcf" means thousand cubic feet, "MMcf" means million cubic feet and
  "Bcf" means billion cubic feet. All volumes of natural gas are stated at a
  pressure base of 14.73 pounds per square inch absolute at 60 degrees
  Fahrenheit. The term "Btu" means British Thermal Unit, "MMBtu" means one
  million British Thermal Units and "TBtu" means one trillion British Thermal
  Units. The term "Dth" means dekatherm. The term "Mbbl" means one thousand
  barrels. The term "GWh" means gigawatt hour.
 

 
     In 1997, the Company's gas pipeline group began the process of combining
certain administrative functions, such as human resources, information services,
technical services, and finance, of its operating companies in an effort to
lower costs and increase effectiveness. In addition, the Company combined the
management teams of two of the operating companies, Northwest Pipeline
Corporation and Kern River Gas Transmission Company, in 1997. Also in 1997, the
senior vice president and general manager of Texas Gas Transmission Corporation
assumed additional responsibilities as senior vice president and general manager
of Williams Gas Pipelines Central, Inc. The Company made these management
changes to increase the organizational efficiency of its natural gas pipeline
group; however, each of these operating companies continues to operate as a
separate legal entity. The Company's gas pipeline subsidiaries employ
approximately 3,600 employees.
 
     The interstate natural gas pipeline group's transmission and storage
activities are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
("FERC") under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 ("Natural Gas Act") and under the
Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA"), and, as such, their rates and charges
for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, the extension,
enlargement or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities, and accounting, among
other things, are subject to regulation. Each pipeline holds certificates of
public convenience and necessity issued by FERC authorizing ownership and
operation of all pipelines, facilities and properties considered jurisdictional
for which certificates are required under the Natural Gas Act. Each pipeline is
also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended by Title
I of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, which regulates safety requirements in the
design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate gas transmission
facilities.
 
     A business description of each company in the interstate natural gas
pipeline group follows.
 
TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION (TRANSCO)
 
     Transco is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns a
10,500-mile natural gas pipeline system extending from Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through the states of Alabama,
Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and
New Jersey to the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers
in Texas and eleven southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major
metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina, New York, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania. Effective May 1, 1995, Transco transferred the operation of
certain production area facilities to Williams Field Services Group, Inc., an
affiliated company.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     At December 31, 1997, Transco's system had a mainline delivery capacity of
approximately 3.8 Bcf of gas per day from production areas to its primary
markets. Using its Leidy Line and market-area storage capacity, Transco can
deliver an additional 2.9 Bcf of gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity
total of approximately 6.7 Bcf of gas per day. Excluding the production area
facilities operated by Williams Field Services Group, Inc., Transco's system is
composed of approximately 7,300 miles of mainline and branch transmission
pipelines, 39 compressor stations and six storage locations. Compression
facilities at a sea level-rated capacity total approximately 1.3 million
horsepower.
 
     Transco's major gas transportation customers are public utilities and
municipalities that provide service to residential, commercial, industrial and
electric generation end users. Shippers on Transco's pipeline system include
public utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users,
electrical generators, marketers and producers. Transco's largest customer in
1997 accounted for approximately 12 percent of Transco's total operating
revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of total
operating revenues in 1997. Transco's firm transportation agreements are
generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and account for the
major portion of Transco's business. Additionally, Transco offers interruptible
transportation services under shorter term agreements.
 
     Transco has natural gas storage capacity in five underground storage fields
located on or near its pipeline system and/or market areas and operates three of
these storage fields and a liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage facility. The
total top gas storage capacity available to Transco and its customers in such
storage fields
 

 
and LNG facility is approximately 216 Bcf of gas. Storage capacity permits
Transco's customers to inject gas into storage during the summer and off-peak
periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.
 
  Expansion Projects
 
     In February 1997, Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC, which is owned by Transco
and several of its major customers, commenced construction of an LNG storage
project in Guilford County, North Carolina. The project will have 4 Bcf of
storage capacity and 400 MMcf per day of withdrawal capacity, and is expected to
be placed into service on or about May 1, 1999. The project is estimated to cost
approximately $107 million. Transco will operate the facility and have a 35
percent ownership interest. Transco expects to make equity investments of
approximately $19 million in this project.
 
     In March 1997, Transco announced its MarketLink Expansion Project.
MarketLink will expand Transco's Leidy Line and market-area mainline facilities,
providing the final transportation link for several pipeline projects designed
to transport Canadian and Rocky Mountain gas supplies to eastern markets. The
total cost and capacity of the project, which is targeted to be in service for
the 1999-2000 winter heating season, will be determined based on market
subscriptions. Transco plans to file for FERC approval of the project during the
first quarter of 1998.
 
     In March 1997, Independence Pipeline Company filed with FERC an
application, which was amended in December 1997, for approval to construct and
operate a pipeline consisting of approximately 400 miles of 36-inch diameter
pipe from ANR Pipeline Company's existing compressor station at Defiance, Ohio
to Transco's facilities at Leidy, Pennsylvania. Independence will provide
approximately 916 MMcf per day of firm gas transportation capacity and is
expected to be in service in the 1999-2000 time frame. The estimated cost of the
project is $678 million, and Transco's equity contributions will be
approximately $68 million based on its expected one-third ownership interest in
the project.
 
     In April 1997, Transco withdrew its FERC certificate application for the
Seaboard Expansion Project and filed an application with the FERC for the Pocono
Expansion Project, which was completed and placed into service in November 1997.
Pocono added 35 MMcf per day of firm gas transportation capacity on Transco's
Leidy Line in Pennsylvania. The cost of the expansion is approximately $10
million.
 
     In August 1997, FERC issued a certificate authorizing Transco to expand its
existing Maiden Lateral to Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. in Lincoln and
Catawba Counties, North Carolina. The project facilities include approximately
18 miles of 16-inch pipeline loop and an expansion of Transco's existing
Lowesville Meter Station. The project was placed into service in November 1997.
The cost for the facilities is approximately $13 million.
 
     In November 1997, Transco completed and placed into service the SunBelt
Expansion Project. This project added approximately 146 MMcf per day of firm gas
transportation capacity to markets in Georgia, South Carolina, and North
Carolina. The total cost of the expansion was approximately $85 million, of
which $61 million was expended in 1997.
 
     In November 1997, the North Carolina Utilities Commission issued an order
approving the Cardinal Pipeline System Project. Wholly owned subsidiaries of
Transco and three of its North Carolina customers will own the pipeline, which
will involve the acquisition of the existing 37-mile Cardinal pipeline in North
Carolina and construction of an approximately 67-mile extension of the pipeline
to new interconnections near Clayton County, North Carolina. This project will
provide 140 MMcf per day of additional firm gas transportation capacity to North
Carolina markets and is expected to be placed into service by the end of 1999. A
wholly owned subsidiary of Transco will operate the pipeline and have a 45
percent ownership interest in the project. Transco expects to make equity
investments of approximately $22 million in this project, of which approximately
$900,000 was invested during 1997.
 
     In December 1997, Transco and AGL Resources Inc. (AGL) formed Cumberland
Gas Pipeline Company. Under this project, existing pipeline facilities of
Transco and AGL will be expanded northward into Tennessee, establishing a
135-mile pipeline that is expected to provide firm transportation capacity to
markets in Georgia and Tennessee by the 2000-2001 winter heating season. The
project is expected to be submitted for
 

 
FERC approval in the third quarter of 1998. Transco will operate the pipeline
facilities and have a 50 percent ownership interest. Transco estimates that the
total cost of this project will be up to $115 million, and expects to make
equity investments of up to $29 million. To complement the Cumberland project,
Transco will offer additional pipeline capacity from the terminus of its
existing Mobile Bay Lateral in Choctaw County, Alabama, to its interconnect with
Cumberland at Transco's Station 125 in Walton County, Georgia, at a cost of up
to $120 million.
 
     In January 1998, the FERC approved the Mobile Bay Lateral Expansion
Project, an expansion of Transco's existing 123-mile Mobile Bay Lateral. The
project is expected to provide new firm transportation capacity of 350 MMcf of
gas per day from the outer continental shelf to Transco's Station 82 and
increase capacity on the existing onshore lateral from 520 MMcf of gas per day
to 784 MMcf of gas per day. The project is targeted to be placed into service in
two phases during 1998 at a cost of approximately $120 million, of which
approximately $36 million was invested during 1997.
 
     In January 1998, FERC approved the 1998 Cherokee Expansion Project, an
incremental expansion of Transco's pipeline system in its southern market area
which will provide approximately 84 MMcf of gas per day of new firm gas
transportation capacity on Transco's system by a proposed in-service date of
November 1, 1998. The estimated cost for this project is $68 million, of which
$9.3 million was invested during 1997.
 
     In January 1998, Transco and Duke Energy Corporation announced plans to
form a joint venture to develop a new natural gas pipeline project into New York
City. The project, called the Cross Bay Pipeline, will combine Duke's previously
announced Excelsior(sm) project with the existing Long Beach delivery facilities
on Transco's system into a new integrated delivery pipeline. The project will
provide up to 700 MMcf of gas per day on a phased-in basis, with the in-service
date of the initial phase being targeted for 1999.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated, including the portion of 1995 during which the
Company did not own Transco (in TBtus):
 

 
NORTHWEST PIPELINE CORPORATION (NORTHWEST PIPELINE)
 
     Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transmission company that
owns and operates a pipeline system for the mainline transmission of natural gas
extending from the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern
Colorado through Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon and Washington to a
point on the Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides
services for markets in California, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming,
Idaho, Oregon and Washington, directly or indirectly through interconnections
with other pipelines.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     At December 31, 1997, Northwest Pipeline's system, having an aggregate
mainline deliverability of approximately 2.5 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of
approximately 3,900 miles of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and 40
mainline compressor stations with a combined capacity of approximately 307,000
horsepower.
 

 
     In 1997, Northwest Pipeline transported natural gas for a total of 153
customers. Transportation customers include distribution companies,
municipalities, interstate and intrastate pipelines, gas marketers and direct
industrial users. The five largest customers of Northwest Pipeline in 1997
accounted for approximately 17 percent, 16.9 percent, 11.8 percent, 10.6 percent
and 10.4 percent, respectively, of its total operating revenues. No other
customer accounted for more than 10 percent of total operating revenues.
Northwest Pipeline's firm transportation agreements are generally long-term
agreements with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of
Northwest Pipeline's business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline offers
interruptible transportation service under agreements that are generally short
term.
 
     As a part of its transportation services, Northwest Pipeline utilizes
underground storage facilities in Utah and Washington enabling it to balance
daily receipts and deliveries. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates a
liquefied natural gas storage facility in Washington that provides a
needle-peaking service for the system. These storage facilities have an
aggregate delivery capacity of approximately 973 MMcf of gas per day.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtus):
 

 
     Transportation volumes declined from 1996 to 1997 as a result of Northwest
Pipeline's sale in late 1996 of a majority of its South End Facilities.
 
KERN RIVER GAS TRANSMISSION COMPANY (KERN RIVER)
 
     Kern River is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and
operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from Wyoming through Utah and
Nevada to California. Kern River had been jointly owned and operated by Williams
Western Pipeline Company, a subsidiary of the Company, and a subsidiary of an
unaffiliated company. As previously indicated, the Company acquired an
additional 49.9 percent interest in Kern River in January 1996. See Note 2 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 1997, the Company
acquired the remaining 0.1 percent interest in Kern River. The transmission
system, which commenced operations in February 1992 following completion of
construction, delivers natural gas primarily to the enhanced oil recovery fields
in southern California. The system also transports natural gas for utilities,
municipalities and industries in California, Nevada and Utah.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     As of December 31, 1997, Kern River's pipeline system was composed of
approximately 705 miles of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and five
compressor stations having an aggregate mainline delivery capacity of 700 MMcf
of gas per day. The pipeline system interconnects with the pipeline facilities
of another pipeline company at Daggett, California. From the point of
interconnection, Kern River and the other pipeline company have a common
219-mile pipeline which is owned 63.6 percent by Kern River and 36.4 percent by
the other pipeline company, as tenants in common, and is designed to accommodate
the combined throughput of both systems. This common facility has a capacity of
1.1 Bcf of gas per day.
 
     Kern River transports gas for others under firm long-term transportation
contracts totaling 694 MMcf of gas per day. In 1997, Kern River transported
natural gas for customers in California, Nevada, and Utah. Gas was transported
for reinjection as a part of enhanced oil recovery in Kern County, California,
and for local distribution customers, electric utilities, cogeneration projects,
and commercial and other industrial customers. The four largest customers of
Kern River in 1997 accounted for approximately 16 percent, 14 percent, 12
percent, and 10 percent, respectively, of its total operating revenues. Three of
these customers serve the enhanced oil recovery fields. No other customer
accounted for more than 10 percent of total operating revenues in 1997.
 

 
     Kern River has executed a seasonal firm transportation contract to deliver
natural gas into the Las Vegas, Nevada, market area during the winter months.
Kern River began deliveries of approximately 10 MMcf of gas per day during 1997
and expects to escalate such deliveries to 40 MMcf of gas per day on a seasonal
basis by 1999.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated, including periods during which the Company owned less
than 100 percent of Kern River (in TBtus):
 

 
TEXAS GAS TRANSMISSION CORPORATION (TXG)
 
     TXG is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and
operates a natural gas pipeline system originating in the Louisiana Gulf Coast
area and in east Texas and running generally north and east through Louisiana,
Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and into Ohio, with smaller
diameter lines extending into Illinois. TXG's direct market area encompasses
eight states in the South and Midwest, and includes the Memphis, Tennessee;
Louisville, Kentucky; Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio; and Indianapolis, Indiana,
metropolitan areas. TXG also has indirect market access to the Northeast through
interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     At December 31, 1997, TXG's system, having a mainline delivery capacity of
approximately 2.8 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of approximately 6,000 miles
of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and 32 compressor stations having
a sea level-rated capacity totaling approximately 549,000 horsepower.
 
     In 1997, TXG transported gas to customers in Louisiana, Arkansas,
Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois, and Ohio and to customers
in the Northeast served indirectly by TXG. TXG transported gas for 110
distribution companies and municipalities for resale to residential, commercial
and industrial users. TXG provided transportation services to approximately 20
industrial customers located along the system. At December 31, 1997, TXG had
transportation contracts with approximately 588 shippers. Transportation
shippers include distribution companies, municipalities, intrastate pipelines,
direct industrial users, electrical generators, marketers and producers. The
largest customer of TXG in 1997 accounted for approximately 12.4 percent of its
total operating revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent
of total operating revenues during 1997. TXG's firm transportation and storage
agreements are generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and
account for the major portion of TXG's business. Additionally, TXG offers
interruptible transportation and storage services under agreements that are
generally short-term.
 
     TXG owns and operates natural gas storage reservoirs in 10 underground
storage fields located on or near its pipeline system and/or market areas. The
storage capacity of TXG's certificated storage fields is approximately 177 Bcf
of gas. TXG's storage gas is used in part to meet operational balancing needs on
its system, in part to meet the requirements of TXG's firm and interruptible
storage customers, and in part to meet the requirements of TXG's "no-notice"
transportation service, which allows TXG's customers to temporarily draw from
TXG's storage gas to be repaid in-kind during the following summer season. A
large portion of the gas delivered by TXG to its market area is used for space
heating, resulting in substantially higher daily requirements during winter
months.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes total system
transportation volumes for the periods indicated, including the portion of 1995
during which the Company did not own TXG (in TBtus):
 

 

 
WILLIAMS GAS PIPELINES CENTRAL, INC. (CENTRAL)
 
     Central, formerly known as Williams Natural Gas Company, is an interstate
natural gas transmission company that owns and operates a natural gas pipeline
system located in Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas, and
Wyoming. The system serves customers in seven states, including major
metropolitan areas of Kansas and Missouri, its chief market areas.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     At December 31, 1997, Central's system, having a mainline delivery capacity
of approximately 2.2 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of approximately 6,000
miles of mainline and branch transmission and storage pipelines and 42
compressor stations having a sea level-rated capacity totaling approximately
218,000 horsepower.
 
     In 1997, Central transported gas to customers in Colorado, Kansas,
Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas, and Wyoming. Gas was transported for 70
distribution companies and municipalities for resale to residential, commercial
and industrial users in approximately 530 cities and towns. Transportation
services were provided to approximately 303 industrial customers, federal and
state institutions and agricultural processing plants located principally in
Kansas, Missouri and Oklahoma. At December 31, 1997, Central had transportation
contracts with approximately 201 shippers. Transportation shippers included
distribution companies, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial
users, electrical generators, marketers and producers.
 
     In 1997, approximately 68 percent (approximately 34 percent each) of total
operating revenues were generated from gas transportation services to Central's
two largest customers, Kansas Gas Service Company, a division of Oneok, Inc.,
formerly Western Resources, Inc., and Missouri Gas Energy Company. Kansas Gas
Service Company sells or resells gas to residential, commercial and industrial
customers principally in certain major metropolitan areas of Kansas. Missouri
Gas Energy sells or resells gas to residential, commercial and industrial
customers principally in certain major metropolitan areas of Missouri. No other
customer accounted for more than 10 percent of operating revenues during 1997.
 
     In 1997, Central reached agreement with its two major customers to renew a
major portion of their firm capacity that was to expire under then-existing
contracts. The majority of the new contracts have terms ranging from four to
five years. Central's remaining firm transportation agreements have various
expiration dates ranging from one year to twenty years, with the majority
expiring in three to eight years. Additionally, Central offers interruptible
transportation services under agreements that are generally short term.
 
     Central operates nine underground storage fields with an aggregate working
gas storage capacity of approximately 43 Bcf and an aggregate delivery capacity
of approximately 1.2 Bcf of gas per day. Central's customers inject gas in these
fields when demand is low and withdraw it to supply their peak requirements.
During periods of peak demand, approximately two-thirds of the firm gas
delivered to customers is supplied from these storage fields. Storage capacity
enables the system to operate more uniformly and efficiently during the year.
 
     During 1997, Central completed four expansion projects which resulted in
additional firm transportation contracts totaling over 71,000 Dth per day.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtus):
 

 
REGULATORY MATTERS
 
     In 1992, FERC issued Order 636, which required interstate pipeline
companies to restructure their tariffs to eliminate traditional on-system sales
services. In addition, the Order required implementation of various
 

 
changes in forms of service, including unbundling of gathering, transmission and
storage services; terms and conditions of service; rate design; gas supply
realignment cost recovery; and other major rate and tariff revisions. Kern River
implemented its restructuring on August 1, 1993; Central implemented its
restructuring on October 1, 1993; and Transco, Northwest Pipeline and TXG
implemented their restructurings on November 1, 1993. Certain aspects of three
pipeline companies' Order 636 restructurings are under appeal.
 
     Each interstate natural gas pipeline has various regulatory proceedings
pending. Rates are established primarily through FERC's ratemaking process. Key
determinants in the ratemaking process are (1) costs of providing service,
including depreciation rates, (2) allowed rate of return, including the equity
component of the capital structure, and (3) volume throughput assumptions. FERC
determines the allowed rate of return in each rate case. Rate design and the
allocation of costs between the demand and commodity rates also impact
profitability. As a result of such proceedings, the pipeline companies have
collected a portion of their revenues subject to refund. See Note 13 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for the amount of revenues reserved for
potential refund as of December 31, 1997.
 
     Each of the interstate natural gas pipeline companies that were formerly
gas supply merchants has undertaken the reformation of its respective gas supply
contracts. None of the pipelines have any significant pending supplier
take-or-pay, ratable-take or minimum-take claims. Central has an accrued
liability recorded of $94 million for its estimated remaining contract
reformation and gas supply realignment costs under Order 636. These contracts
are presently subject to certain FERC proceedings. For information on
outstanding issues with respect to contract reformation, gas purchase
deficiencies and related regulatory issues, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 
COMPETITION
 
     FERC continues to regulate each of the Company's interstate natural gas
pipeline companies pursuant to the Natural Gas Act and the NGPA. However,
competition for natural gas transportation has intensified in recent years due
to customer access to other pipelines, rate competitiveness among pipelines,
customers' desire to have more than one transporter and regulatory developments.
FERC's stated purpose for implementing Order 636 was to improve the competitive
structure of the natural gas pipeline industry. Future utilization of pipeline
capacity will depend on competition from other pipelines, use of alternative
fuels, the general level of natural gas demand and weather conditions.
Electricity and distillate fuel oil are primary competitive forms of energy for
residential and commercial markets. Coal and residual fuel oil compete for
industrial and electric generation markets. Nuclear and hydroelectric power and
power purchased from grid arrangements among electric utilities also compete
with gas-fired power generation in certain markets.
 
     As mentioned, when restructured tariffs became effective under Order 636,
all suppliers of natural gas were able to compete for any gas markets capable of
being served by the pipelines using nondiscriminatory transportation services
provided by the pipelines. As the Order 636 regulated environment has matured,
many pipelines have faced reduced levels of subscribed capacity as contractual
terms expire and customers opt to reduce firm capacity under contract in favor
of alternative sources of transmission and related services. This situation,
known in the industry as "capacity turnback," is forcing the pipelines to
evaluate the consequences of major demand reductions in traditional long-term
contracts. It could also result in significant shifts in system utilization, and
possible realignment of cost structure for remaining customers since all
interstate natural gas pipeline companies continue to charge rates approved by
FERC on a cost of service basis.
 
     The Company is aware that several state jurisdictions have been involved in
implementing changes similar to the changes that have occurred at the federal
level under Order 636. Such activity, frequently referred to as "LDC
unbundling," has been most pronounced in the states of New York, New Jersey,
Georgia, and Pennsylvania. New York and New Jersey began establishing LDC
unbundling regulations in 1995 and continue to develop regulations regarding LDC
unbundling. Georgia enacted an LDC unbundling program in 1997. Pennsylvania is
currently considering LDC unbundling and may enact such legislation in 1998. In
addition, Maryland and Delaware currently have pilot unbundling programs for
industrial, commercial, and
 

 
residential end-users. Management expects these regulations to encourage greater
competition in the natural gas marketplace.
 
OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
 
     Each of the Company's interstate natural gas pipeline subsidiaries
generally owns its facilities in fee. However, a substantial portion of each
pipeline's facilities is constructed and maintained pursuant to rights-of-way,
easements, permits, licenses or consents on and across properties owned by
others. Compressor stations, with appurtenant facilities, are located in whole
or in part either on lands owned or on sites held under leases or permits issued
or approved by public authorities. The storage facilities are either owned or
contracted under long-term leases or easements.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
     Each interstate natural gas pipeline is subject to the National
Environmental Policy Act and federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that, with
respect to any capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses
required to meet applicable environmental standards and regulations, FERC would
grant the requisite rate relief so that, for the most part, the pipeline
subsidiaries could recover such expenditures in their rates. For this reason,
management believes that compliance with applicable environmental requirements
by the interstate pipelines is not likely to have a material effect upon the
Company's earnings or competitive position.
 
     For a discussion of specific environmental issues involving the interstate
pipelines, including estimated cleanup costs associated with certain pipeline
activities, see "Environmental" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and "Environmental Matters" in
Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
            WILLIAMS HOLDINGS OF DELAWARE, INC. (WILLIAMS HOLDINGS)
 
     Williams Holdings' energy subsidiaries are engaged in exploration and
production; natural gas gathering, processing and treating activities; petroleum
products transportation and terminaling; ethanol production and marketing; and
energy commodity marketing and trading and price risk management and energy
finance services. In addition, these subsidiaries provide a variety of other
products and services to the energy industry. Williams Holdings' communications
subsidiaries offer data-, voice-, and video-related products and services and
customer premise voice and data equipment, including installation, maintenance,
and integration, nationwide. Williams Holdings also has certain other equity
investments.
 
WILLIAMS ENERGY GROUP (WILLIAMS ENERGY)
 
     In 1996, Williams Holdings reorganized its energy operations under a newly
created, wholly owned subsidiary, Williams Energy Group, and began reporting
such operations for financial reporting purposes on this basis in the fourth
quarter of 1996.
 
     Williams Energy is comprised of four major business units: Exploration and
Production, Field Services, Petroleum Services, and Energy Marketing and
Trading. Through its business units, Williams Energy engages in energy
production and exploration activities; natural gas gathering, processing, and
treating; petroleum liquids transportation and terminal services; ethanol
production; and energy commodity marketing and trading.
 
     Williams Energy, through its subsidiaries, owns 600 Bcf of proved natural
gas reserves located primarily in the San Juan Basin of Colorado and New Mexico
and owns or operates approximately 11,000 miles of gathering pipelines
(including certain gathering lines owned by an affiliate but operated by Field
Services), 10 gas treating plants, 10 gas processing plants, 53 petroleum
products terminals, and approximately 9,100 miles of liquids pipeline. Physical
and notional volumes marketed and traded by Williams Energy's Energy Marketing
and Trading unit approximated 11,018 TBtu equivalents in 1997. In support of its
power marketing activities, Williams Energy acquired a cogeneration plant in
Hazleton, Pennsylvania, in 1997 and also owns a cogeneration plant in
northwestern New Mexico. These facilities add approximately 113
 

 
megawatts of capacity to its portfolio. Williams Energy, through its
subsidiaries, employs approximately 2,800 employees.
 
     Revenues and operating profit for Williams Energy by business unit are
reported in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein.
 
     A business description of each of Williams Energy's business units follows.
 
EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 
     Williams Energy, through its wholly owned subsidiary Williams Production
Company (Williams Production), owns and operates producing natural gas leasehold
properties in the United States. In addition, Williams Production is actively
exploring for oil and gas.
 
     Oil and gas properties. Exploration and production properties are located
primarily in the Rocky Mountains and Gulf Coast areas. Rocky Mountain properties
are located in the San Juan Basin in New Mexico and Colorado, in Wyoming, and in
Utah. Gulf Coast properties include North Louisiana, the Houma Embayment and
Transition Zone in Southern Louisiana, Pinnacle Reef play in East Texas, Sligo
and Wilcox trends in South Texas, and offshore Gulf of Mexico.
 
     Gas Reserves. As of December 31, 1997, 1996, and 1995, Williams Production
had proved developed natural gas reserves of 362 Bcf, 323 Bcf, and 292 Bcf,
respectively, and proved undeveloped reserves of 238 Bcf, 208 Bcf, and 222 Bcf,
respectively. Of Williams Production's total proved reserves, 89 percent are
located in the San Juan Basin of Colorado and New Mexico. No major discovery or
other favorable or adverse event has caused a significant change in estimated
gas reserves since year end.
 
     Customers and Operations. As of December 31, 1997, the gross and net
developed leasehold acres owned by Williams Production totaled 268,331 and
115,728 respectively, and the gross and net undeveloped acres owned were 447,458
and 121,351 respectively. As of such date, Williams Production owned interests
in 3,113 gross producing wells (558 net) on its leasehold lands. The following
tables summarize drilling activity for the periods indicated:
 

 

 
     The majority of Williams Production's gas production is currently being
sold in the spot market at market prices. Total net production sold during 1997,
1996, and 1995 was 37.1 Bcf, 31.0 Bcf, and 30.0 Bcf, respectively. The average
production costs, including production taxes, per Mcf of gas produced were $.42,
$.23, and $.23, in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. The average wellhead
sales price per Mcf was $1.62, $.98, and $.88, respectively, for the same
periods. Net production sold and average production costs for 1996 and 1995 have
been restated to include net profits volumes not previously reported.
 
     In 1993, Williams Production conveyed a net profits interest in certain of
its properties to the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust. Williams
subsequently sold Trust Units to the public in an underwritten public offering.
Williams Holdings owns 3,568,791 Trust Units representing 36.8 percent of
outstanding Units. Substantially all of the production attributable to the
properties conveyed to the Trust was from the Fruitland
 

 
coal formation and constituted coal seam gas. Production information reported
herein includes Williams Production's interest in such Units.
 
FIELD SERVICES
 
     Williams Energy, through Williams Field Services Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries (Field Services), owns and operates natural gas gathering,
processing, and treating facilities located in northwestern New Mexico,
southwestern Colorado, southwestern Wyoming, northwestern Oklahoma, southwestern
Kansas, and also in areas offshore and onshore in Texas and Louisiana. Field
Services also operates gathering facilities that are owned by Transco, an
affiliated company, and that are currently regulated by the FERC. In February
1996, Field Services and Transco filed applications with FERC to spindown all of
Transco's gathering facilities to Field Services. FERC subsequently denied the
request in September 1996. Field Services and Transco sought rehearing in
October 1996. In August 1997, Field Services and Transco filed a second request
for expedited treatment of the rehearing request. FERC has yet to rule on this
request for rehearing.
 
     Expansion Projects. Field Services continued to expand its operations in
the gulf coast region during 1997 primarily through the Mobile Bay Project.
During the year, Field Services obtained a life-of-reserves commitment from SOCO
Offshore to anchor the construction of the Field Services' facilities required
to gather and process near the Outer Continental Shelf. These committed reserves
along with existing production from the Mobile Bay area will more than
adequately supply this plant, scheduled to begin operations in early 1999. In
addition, Field Services has acquired the remaining 50 percent interest in the
500 MMcfd Cameron Meadows processing plant in south Texas, has reached an
agreement to partner in a 200 MMcfd processing plant in Louisiana, and finalized
construction plans for a deep water gathering line to Green Canyon Federal Block
205 off Transco's Southeast Louisiana gathering system where planned capacity is
expected to reach 90 MMcfd in the fourth quarter of 1998.
 
     Customers and Operations. Facilities owned and/or operated by Field
Services consist of approximately 11,000 miles of gathering pipelines (including
certain gathering lines owned by an affiliate but operated by Field Services),
10 gas treating plants and 10 gas processing plants (one of which is partially
owned). The aggregate daily inlet capacity is approximately 7.9 Bcf for the
gathering systems and 6.7 Bcf of gas for the gas processing, treating, and
dehydration facilities. Gathering and processing customers have direct access to
interstate pipelines, including affiliated pipelines, which provide access to
multiple markets.
 
     During 1997, Field Services gathered natural gas for 296 customers. The
largest gathering customer accounted for approximately 17 percent of total
gathered volumes. During 1997, Field Services processed natural gas for a total
of 130 customers. The largest customer accounted for approximately 24 percent of
total processed volumes. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of
gathered or processed volumes. Field Services' gathering and processing
agreements with large customers are generally long-term agreements with various
expiration dates. These long-term agreements account for the majority of the gas
gathered and processed by Field Services.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes gathering, processing,
and natural gas liquid sales volumes for the periods indicated. The information
includes operations attributed to facilities owned by affiliated entities but
operated by Field Services, including the portion of 1995 during which the
Company did not own such facilities:
 

 

 
PETROLEUM SERVICES
 
     Williams Energy, through wholly owned subsidiaries in its Petroleum
Services unit, owns and operates a petroleum products and crude oil pipeline
system, two ethanol production plants (one of which is partially owned), and
petroleum products terminals and provides services and markets products related
thereto.
 
     Transportation. A subsidiary in the Petroleum Services unit, Williams Pipe
Line Company (Williams Pipe Line), owns and operates a petroleum products and
crude oil pipeline system which covers an 11-state area extending from Oklahoma
in the south to North Dakota and Minnesota in the north and Illinois in the
east. The system is operated as a common carrier offering transportation and
terminaling services on a nondiscriminatory basis under published tariffs. The
system transports refined products, LP-gases, lube extracted fuel oil, and crude
oil.
 
     At December 31, 1997, the system traversed approximately 7,100 miles of
right-of-way and included approximately 9,100 miles of pipeline in various sizes
up to 16 inches in diameter. The system includes 77 pumping stations, 23 million
barrels of storage capacity, and 40 delivery terminals. The terminals are
equipped to deliver refined products into tank trucks and tank cars. The maximum
number of barrels which the system can transport per day depends upon the
operating balance achieved at a given time between various segments of the
system. Because the balance is dependent upon the mix of products to be shipped
and the demand levels at the various delivery points, the exact capacity of the
system cannot be stated.
 
     An affiliate of Williams Pipe Line, Longhorn Enterprises of Texas, Inc.
("LETI"), owns a 31.5 percent interest in Longhorn Partners Pipeline, LP, a
joint venture formed to construct and operate a refined products pipeline from
Houston to El Paso, Texas. The pipeline is expected to commence operations in
1998. Williams Pipe Line will design, construct, and operate the pipeline, and
LETI has irrevocably committed to contribute $87.4 million to the joint venture
in 1998.
 
     Operating Statistics. The operating statistics set forth below relate to
the system's operations for the periods indicated:
 

 
     Environmental regulations and changing crude supply patterns continue to
affect the refining industry. The industry's response to environmental
regulations and changing supply patterns will directly affect volumes and
products shipped on the Williams Pipe Line system. Environmental Protection
Agency ("EPA") regulations, driven by the Clean Air Act, require refiners to
change the composition of fuel manufactured. A pipeline's ability to respond to
the effects of regulation and changing supply patterns will determine its
ability to maintain and capture new market shares. Williams Pipe Line has
successfully responded to changes in diesel fuel composition and product supply
and has adapted to new gasoline additive requirements. Reformulated gasoline
regulations have not yet significantly affected Williams Pipe Line. Williams
Pipe Line will continue to attempt to position itself to respond to changing
regulations and supply patterns but cannot predict how future changes in the
marketplace will affect its market areas.
 

 
     Ethanol. Williams Energy, through its wholly owned subsidiary Williams
Energy Ventures, Inc. (WEV), is engaged in the production and marketing of
ethanol. WEV owns and operates two ethanol plants of which corn is the principal
feedstock. The Pekin, Illinois, plant, which WEV purchased in 1995, has an
annual production capacity of 100 million gallons of fuel-grade and industrial
ethanol and also produces various coproducts. The Aurora, Nebraska, plant (in
which WEV owns a 74.68 percent interest) began operations in November 1995 and
has an annual production capacity of 30 million gallons. WEV also markets
ethanol produced by third parties.
 
     The sales volumes set forth below include ethanol produced by third parties
as well as by WEV for the periods indicated:
 

 
     Terminals and Services. Williams Energy, through its subsidiary WEV,
operates petroleum products terminals in the western and southeastern United
States and provides services including performance additives and ethanol
blending. In September 1996, WEV acquired a 45.5 percent interest in eight
petroleum products terminals located in the southeast United States. In 1997,
these terminals loaded approximately 17.3 million barrels of refined products.
In December 1997, WEV acquired a terminal in Dallas, Texas. The preceding volume
data do not reflect activity at this terminal.
 
ENERGY MARKETING AND TRADING
 
     Williams Energy, through subsidiaries, primarily Williams Energy Services
Company and its subsidiaries ("WESCO"), is a national energy services provider
that buys, sells, and transports a full suite of energy commodities, including
natural gas, electricity, refined products, natural gas liquids, crude oil, and
liquefied natural gas, on a wholesale and retail level, serving over 3,500
companies. In addition, WESCO offers a comprehensive array of price-risk
management products and services and capital services to the diverse energy
industry.
 
     WESCO markets natural gas throughout North America and grew its total
volumes (physical and notional) to an average of 22.3 Bcf per day in 1997. The
core of WESCO's business has traditionally been the Gulf Coast and eastern
regions, using the pipeline systems owned by the Company, but also includes
marketing on approximately 50 non-Williams' pipelines. During 1997,
approximately one-third of WESCO's volumes were from the Mid-Continent region,
up from 10 percent in 1996. WESCO's natural gas customers include producers,
industrials, local distribution companies, utilities, and other marketers.
 
     During 1997, WESCO also marketed refined products, natural gas liquids,
crude, and liquefied natural gas with total volumes (physical and notional)
averaging 1,208.2 Mbbl per day. WESCO's acquisition in 1997 of the wholesale
propane business of Level Energy significantly enhanced its natural gas liquids
marketing effort.
 
     WESCO entered the power marketing and trading business in 1996. During
1997, WESCO marketed 8.3 GWh per hour (physical and notional) of electricity.
 
     WESCO provides price-risk management services through a variety of
financial instruments including forwards, futures, and option and swap
agreements related to various energy commodities. Through its energy capital
services, WESCO provides participants in both the upstream and downstream
portions of the energy industry with capital for energy-related projects
including acquisitions of proved reserves and related drilling projects.
 
     During 1997, WESCO has continued to develop its retail energy services
group through acquisitions and alliances. As part of that strategy, WESCO
acquired Utility Management Corporation, an energy management services and
marketing company in the southeastern United States, serving small- to mid-sized
 

 
commercial, industrial, and municipal customers. WESCO also has signed a letter
of intent with GPU Advanced Resources to form an alliance which will serve
markets in six mid-Atlantic states.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes operating profit and
marketing volumes for the periods indicated:
 

 
REGULATORY MATTERS
 
     Field Services. In May 1994, after reviewing its legal authority in a
Public Comment Proceeding, FERC determined that while it retains some regulatory
jurisdiction over gathering and processing performed by interstate pipelines,
pipeline-affiliated gathering and processing companies are outside its authority
under the Natural Gas Act. An appellate court has affirmed FERC's determination
and the U.S. Supreme Court has denied requests for certiorari. As a result of
these FERC decisions, some of the individual states in which Field Services
conducts its operations have considered whether to impose regulatory
requirements on gathering companies. Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas currently
regulate gathering activities using complaint mechanisms under which the state
commission may resolve disputes involving an individual gathering arrangement.
Other states may also consider whether to impose regulatory requirements on
gathering companies.
 
     Petroleum Services. Williams Pipe Line, as an interstate common carrier
pipeline, is subject to the provisions and regulations of the Interstate
Commerce Act. Under this Act, Williams Pipe Line is required, among other
things, to establish just, reasonable and nondiscriminatory rates, to file its
tariffs with FERC, to keep its records and accounts pursuant to the Uniform
System of Accounts for Oil Pipeline Companies, to make annual reports to FERC
and to submit to examination of its records by the audit staff of FERC.
Authority to regulate rates, shipping rules, and other practices and to
prescribe depreciation rates for common carrier pipelines is exercised by FERC.
The Department of Transportation, as authorized by the 1995 Pipeline Safety
Reauthorization Act, is the oversight authority for interstate liquids
pipelines. Williams Pipe Line is also subject to the provisions of various state
laws applicable to intrastate pipelines.
 
     On December 31, 1989, a rate cap, which resulted from a settlement with
several shippers, effectively freezing Williams Pipe Line's rates for the
previous five years, expired. Williams Pipe Line filed a revised tariff on
January 16, 1990, with FERC and the state commissions. The tariff set an average
increase in rates of 11 percent and established volume incentives and
proportional rate discounts. Certain shippers on the Williams Pipe Line system
and a competing pipeline carrier filed protests with FERC alleging that the
revised rates are not just and reasonable and are unlawfully discriminatory.
Williams Pipe Line elected to bifurcate this proceeding in accordance with the
then-current FERC policy. Phase I of FERC's bifurcated proceeding provides a
carrier the opportunity to justify its rates and rate structure by demonstrating
that its markets are workably competitive. Any issues unresolved in Phase I
require cost justification in Phase II.
 
     FERC's Presiding Judge issued the Initial Decision in Phase II on May 29,
1996. The Judge ruled that Williams Pipe Line failed to demonstrate that the
rates at issue for the 12 less competitive markets were just and reasonable and
that Williams Pipe Line must roll back those rates to pre-1990 levels and pay
refunds with interest to its shippers. The Initial Decision held that Williams
Pipe Line's individual rates must be judged on the basis of cost allocations,
although Williams Pipe Line was given no notice of this particular basis of
judgment and the Commission expressly declined to adopt such standards in its
Opinion No. 391. Moreover, the Commission clarified its final order in Phase I
(Opinion No. 391-A) by stating that Williams Pipe Line was not required to
defend its rates with cost allocations. Primarily on this basis, Williams Pipe
Line sought a review of the Initial Decision by the full Commission by filing a
brief on exceptions on June 28, 1996. The review of the Phase II Initial
Decision is pending before the Commission, and a shipper's appeal of the Phase I
 

 
order in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
has been stayed pending the completion of Phase II. Williams Pipe Line is not
required to comply with the Initial Decision in Phase II prior to the
Commission's issuance of a final order. Williams Pipe Line continues to believe
that its revised tariffs will ultimately be found lawful. See Note 18 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     Energy Marketing and Trading. Management believes that WESCO's activities
are conducted in substantial compliance with the marketing affiliate rules of
FERC Order 497. Order 497 imposes certain nondiscrimination, disclosure, and
separation requirements upon interstate natural gas pipelines with respect to
their natural gas trading affiliates. WESCO has taken steps to ensure it does
not share employees with affiliated interstate natural gas pipelines and does
not receive information from such affiliates that is not also available to
unaffiliated natural gas trading companies.
 
COMPETITION
 
     Exploration and Production. Williams Energy's exploration and production
unit competes with a wide variety of independent producers as well as integrated
oil and gas companies for markets for its production.
 
     Field Services. Williams Energy competes for gathering and processing
business with interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers, and independent
gatherers and processors. Numerous factors impact any given customer's choice of
a gathering or processing services provider, including rate, term, timeliness of
well connections, pressure obligations, and the willingness of the provider to
process for either a fee or for liquids taken in-kind.
 
     Petroleum Services. Williams Energy's petroleum services operations are
subject to competition because Williams Pipe Line operates without the
protection of a federal certificate of public convenience and necessity that
might preclude other entrants from providing like service in its area of
operations. Further, Williams Pipe Line must plan, operate and compete without
the operating stability inherent in a broad base of contractually obligated or
owner-controlled usage. Because Williams Pipe Line is a common carrier, its
shippers need only meet the requirements set forth in its published tariffs in
order to avail themselves of the transportation services offered by Williams
Pipe Line.
 
     Competition exists from other pipelines, refineries, barge traffic,
railroads, and tank trucks. Competition is affected by trades of products or
crude oil between refineries that have access to the system and by trades among
brokers, traders and others who control products. Such trades can result in the
diversion from the Williams Pipe Line system of volume that might otherwise be
transported on the system. Shorter, lower revenue hauls may also result from
such trades. Williams Pipe Line also is exposed to interfuel competition whereby
an energy form shipped by a liquids pipeline, such as heating fuel, is replaced
by a form not transported by a liquids pipeline, such as electricity or natural
gas. While Williams Pipe Line faces competition from a variety of sources
throughout its marketing areas, the principal competition is other pipelines. A
number of pipeline systems, competing on a broad range of price and service
levels, provide transportation service to various areas served by the system.
The possible construction of additional competing products or crude oil
pipelines, conversions of crude oil or natural gas pipelines to products
transportation, changes in refining capacity, refinery closings, changes in the
availability of crude oil to refineries located in its marketing area, or
conservation and conversion efforts by fuel consumers may adversely affect the
volumes available for transportation by Williams Pipe Line.
 
     Williams Energy's ethanol operations compete in local, regional, and
national fuel additive markets with one large ethanol producer, numerous smaller
ethanol producers, and other fuel additive producers, such as refineries.
 
     Energy Marketing and Trading. Williams Energy's energy marketing and
trading operations directly compete with large independent energy marketers,
marketing affiliates of regulated pipelines and utilities, electric wholesalers
and retailers, and natural gas producers. The financial trading business
competes with other energy-based companies offering similar services as well as
certain brokerage houses. This level of competition contributes to a business
environment of constant pricing and margin pressure.
 

 
OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
 
     The majority of Williams Energy's ownership interests in exploration and
production properties are held as working interests in oil and gas leaseholds.
 
     Williams Energy's gathering and processing facilities are owned in fee.
Gathering systems are constructed and maintained pursuant to rights-of-way,
easements, permits, licenses, and consents on and across properties owned by
others. The compressor stations and gas processing and treating facilities are
located in whole or in part on lands owned by subsidiaries of Williams Energy or
on sites held under leases or permits issued or approved by public authorities.
 
     Williams Energy's petroleum pipeline system is owned in fee. However, a
substantial portion of the system is operated, constructed and maintained
pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses, or consents on and
across properties owned by others. The terminals, pump stations, and all other
facilities of the system are located on lands owned in fee or on lands held
under long-term leases, permits, or contracts. Management believes that the
system is in such a condition and maintained in such a manner that it is
adequate and sufficient for the conduct of business.
 
     The primary assets of Williams Energy's energy marketing and trading unit
are its term contracts, employees, and related systems and technological
support.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
     Williams Energy is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and
regulations relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that
Williams Energy's operations are in substantial compliance with existing
environmental legal requirements. Management expects that compliance with such
existing environmental legal requirements will not have a material adverse
effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position of
Williams Energy.
 
     The EPA has named Williams Pipe Line as a potentially responsible party as
defined in Section 107(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act, for a site in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The
EPA placed this site on the National Priorities List in July 1990. In April
1991, Williams Pipe Line and the EPA executed an administrative consent order
under which Williams Pipe Line agreed to conduct a remedial investigation and
feasibility study for this site. The EPA issued its "No Action" Record of
Decision in 1994, concluding that there were no significant hazards associated
with the site subject to two additional years of monitoring for arsenic in
certain existing monitoring wells. Williams Pipe Line completed monitoring in
the second quarter of 1997 and has submitted a report of results to the EPA.
Management believes no significant additional expenditures will be required for
investigation and follow-up at this site.
 
WILLIAMS COMMUNICATIONS GROUP, INC. (WILLIAMS COMMUNICATIONS)
 
     As of December 31, 1997, Williams Communications has organized its
operating companies into three business units: Solutions, which provides
customer-premise voice and data equipment, including installation, integration,
and maintenance; Network, which operates the Company's fiber optic network; and
Applications, which provides video services and other multimedia services for
the broadcast industry; advertising distribution; business television
applications; and audio- and videoconferencing services and enhanced facsimile
services for businesses. Management believes that the new structure will better
position it to provide total enterprise network solutions and superior customer
service. In addition, management believes this structure will facilitate growth
and diversification while recognizing the convergence of customers, markets and
product offerings of its communications entities. In Canada, Solutions operates
through its subsidiary, WilTel Communications (Canada), Inc. In late 1997,
Williams Communications announced plans to sell its product and content training
services business, Williams Learning Network, Inc. See Note 6 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     Williams Communications and its subsidiaries own an approximately
11,000-mile communications network (with an additional 21,000-route miles
planned or under construction), maintain 155 offices primarily across North
America but also in London, Singapore, and Australia, service approximately
133,000 customer
 

 
sites with approximately 11 million customer ports. In addition, Williams
Communications owns or manages five teleports in the United States and has
rights to capacity on domestic and international satellite transponders.
Williams Communications employed approximately 8,000 employees as of December
31, 1997.
 
     Consolidated revenues by business unit and operating profit/loss for
Williams Communications were as follows for 1997 (dollars in millions):
 

 
     The revenues for the Solutions business unit include only eight months of
revenues resulting from the merger, which is discussed below, with Nortel
Communications Systems, Inc., effective April 30, 1997. The operating loss
includes $49.8 million in fourth quarter charges related to the previously noted
decision to sell the learning content business and the write-down of assets and
the development costs associated with certain advanced applications.
 
     A business description of each of Williams Communications' business units
follows.
 
SOLUTIONS
 
     The Solutions unit of Williams Communications provides data, voice and
video communications products and services to customers in the United States and
Canada. In April 1997, Williams Communications merged its wholly owned
subsidiary, Williams Telecommunications Systems, Inc. with Nortel Communications
Systems Inc., which was a wholly owned subsidiary of Northern Telecom, Inc.
(Northern Telecom). Williams Communications holds a 70 percent interest in the
newly formed entity, Williams Communications Solutions, LLC (WCS). Northern
Telecom owns the remaining 30 percent. This merger effectively doubled the size
of Williams Communications Solutions Customer premise and network solutions
operations.
 
     Williams Communications, through subsidiaries including WCS, serves its
customers through more than 120 sales and service locations throughout the
United States, over 6,000 employees and over 2,200 stocked service vehicles. WCS
employs more than 2,500 technicians and more than 700 sales representatives and
sales support personnel to serve an estimated 133,000 commercial, governmental
and institutional customer sites. WCS's customer base ranges from large,
publicly-held corporations and the federal government to small privately-owned
entities.
 
     WCS offers its customers a full array of data, multimedia, voice and video
network interconnect products including digital key systems (generally designed
for voice applications with fewer than 100 lines), private branch exchange (PBX)
systems (generally designed for voice applications with greater than 100 lines),
voice processing systems, interactive voice response systems, automatic call
distribution applications, call accounting systems, network monitoring and
management systems, desktop video, routers, channel banks, intelligent hubs and
cabling. WCS's services also include the design, configuration and installation
of voice and data networks and call centers and the management of customers'
telecommunications operations and facilities. WCS's National Technical Resource
Center provides customers with on-line order entry and trouble reporting
services, advanced technical assistance and training. Other service capabilities
include Local Area Network and PBX remote monitoring and toll fraud detection.
 

 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes the results of
operations for Williams Communications Solutions for the periods indicated
(dollars and ports in millions):
 

 
     A port is defined as an electronic address resident in a customer's PBX or
key system that supports a station, trunk, or data port.
 
     In 1997, WCS derived approximately 47.8 percent of its revenues from its
existing customer base and approximately 52.2 percent from the sale of new
telecommunications systems. WCS's three largest suppliers accounted for
approximately 86 percent of equipment sold in 1997. A single manufacturer,
Northern Telecom, supplied 73 percent of all equipment sold. In this case, WCS
is the largest independent distributor in the United States of certain of this
company's products. About 63 percent of WCS's active customer base consists of
this manufacturer's products. The distribution agreement with this supplier is
scheduled to expire at the end of 2000. Management believes there is minimal
risk as to the availability of products from suppliers.
 
NETWORK
 
     The Network unit of Williams Communications owns and operates an
approximately 11,000-route mile communications network, which is restricted to
multi-media applications, and is currently constructing an unrestricted network
along a 1,600 mile route from Houston to Washington, D.C. in proximity to
pipeline right-of-way owned by an affiliated company. Williams Communications
Inc., a subsidiary of Williams Communications, has entered into an exchange
agreement with IXC Communications under which it will provide IXC Communications
rights to use dark fiber along the Houston-to-Washington, D.C. route and obtain
rights to use dark fiber along a 4,500-mile route from Los Angeles to New York,
which IXC Communications is constructing. In addition, Williams Communications,
Inc. also owns an interest in a joint venture constructing a 1,600-mile fiber
optic network on a route connecting Portland, Salt Lake City, and Las Vegas,
with a dark fiber agreement extending the network to Los Angeles. With these
construction projects and dark fiber agreements and other projects, Williams
Communications, Inc. anticipates having an 18,000-route mile fiber optic network
in operation by the end of 1998. Williams Communications, Inc. has also signed
an agreement to acquire a 350-mile fiber network in Florida and plans to
construct additional fiber to connect the Florida network to its existing
network in the southeastern United States, and to construct a new fiber route in
the Midwestern United States from Chicago westward. The Network unit has
ultimate plans for a 32,000-route mile network.
 
     Upon the expiration of the non-compete agreement related to the Company's
1995 sale of its network services operations on January 5, 1998, Williams
Communications announced that it was re-entering the long-distance
communications market as a wholesale provider of telecommunications services and
had entered into a five-year, multimillion dollar agreement with U S WEST
Communications Group to provide wholesale services using its fiber optic
network. Williams Communications has also entered into an agreement with
Concentric Network Corporation to provide wholesale communications services.
 
     During 1997, Williams Communications acquired Critical Technologies, Inc.,
a professional services company deriving revenue from integrating, designing,
building, implementing, and maintaining large-scale business communications
systems. In addition, Williams Communications acquired a 12.5 percent interest
in Concentric Network Corporation, a provider of Internet protocol-based
networking services for business and consumer markets.
 

 
APPLICATIONS
 
  Vyvx
 
     Vyvx, an unincorporated business unit of Williams Communications, Inc.,
offers broadcast-quality television and multimedia transmission services
nationwide by means of Network's 11,000-mile multimedia network, five satellite
uplink/downlink facilities and satellite capacity on 30 transponders. Vyvx owns
53 television switching centers, 20 sales and service locations in the United
States, and sales and service offices in London, Singapore, and Australia. Vyvx
primarily provides backhaul or point-to-point transmission of sports, news and
other programming between two or more customer locations. With satellite
facilities, Vyvx provides point-to-multipoint transmission service. Vyvx's
customers include all of the major broadcast and cable networks. Vyvx is also
engaged in the business of advertising distribution and is exploring other
multimedia communication opportunities.
 
     Vyvx owns four teleports (including satellite earth station facilities)
located near Atlanta, Denver, Los Angeles, and New York, and operates a fifth
teleport in Kansas City. Vyvx also owns assets for the distribution of
television advertising, which provide connectivity and presence in more than 550
television broadcast stations around the country.
 
  Global Access
 
     Global Access, offers multi-point videoconferencing, audioconferencing and
enhanced facsimile services as well as single point to multi-point business
television services. Global Access enables Williams Communications to provide
customers with integrated media conferences, bringing together voice, video and
facsimile by utilizing Williams Communications's existing fiber-optic and
satellite services.
 
     In March 1997, Global Access acquired Satellite Management, Inc., a
U.S.-based satellite integrator for business television applications,
interactive long distance learning, and corporate communications.
 
     In December 1996, Williams Communications announced the formation of The
Business Channel, a joint venture with the Public Broadcast Service (PBS), to
utilize Internet, video-on-demand, fiber-optic and satellite technologies to
bring professional development and training services to the business community.
 
REGULATORY MATTERS
 
     The equipment WCS sells must meet the requirements of Part 68 of the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules governing the equipment
registration, labeling and connection of equipment to telephone networks. WCS
relies on the equipment manufacturers' compliance with these requirements for
its own compliance regarding the equipment it distributes. These regulations
have a minimal impact on WCS's operations.
 
     Williams Communications, Inc. is subject to FCC regulations as common
carriers with regard to certain of their transmission services and are subject
to the laws of certain states governing public utilities. An FCC rulemaking to
eliminate domestic, common carrier tariffs has been stayed pending judicial
review. In the interim, the FCC is requiring such carriers to operate under
traditional tariff rules. Operations of intrastate microwave communications,
satellite earth stations and certain other related transmission facilities are
also subject to FCC licensing and other regulations. These regulations do not
significantly impact Williams Communications, Inc.'s operations. In 1997, the
FCC began implementation of the Universal Service Fund contemplated in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996. Williams Communications, Inc. is required to
contribute to this fund based upon certain revenues. Although Williams
Communications, Inc. intends to pass on such charges to its customers, FCC
rulings raise questions about the right of companies like Williams
Communications, Inc. to do so.
 
COMPETITION
 
     WCS has many competitors ranging from Lucent Technologies and the Regional
Bell Operating Companies to small individually-owned companies that sell and
service customer premise equipment.
 

 
Competitors include companies that sell equipment comparable or identical to
that sold by WCS. There are virtually no barriers to entry into this market.
 
     Vyvx's video and multimedia transmission operations compete primarily with
companies offering video or multimedia transmission services by means of
satellite facilities and to a lesser degree with companies offering transmission
services via microwave facilities or fiber-optic cable.
 
     Network faces existing competition from a number of large, well-established
interexchange carriers, some with extensive fiber optic networks. Several other
carriers are constructing or have plans to construct new fiber optic networks or
are establishing networks based on dark fiber rights obtained from
facilities-based carriers.
 
     Federal telecommunications reform legislation enacted in February 1996 is
designed to increase competition both in the long distance market and local
exchange market by significantly liberalizing current restrictions on market
entry. In particular, the legislation establishes procedures permitting Regional
Bell Operating Companies to provide long distance services including, but not
limited to, video transmission services, subject to certain restrictions and
conditions precedent. Moreover, electric and gas utilities may provide
telecommunications services, including long distance services, through separate
subsidiaries. The legislation also calls for elimination of federal tariff
filing requirements and relaxation of regulation over common carriers. At this
time, management cannot predict the impact such legislation may have on the
operations of Williams Communications, Inc.
 
     In late 1997, a Federal District Court decision, which has been stayed
pending appeal, invalidated provisions of the 1996 federal legislation. While
legislation or rulings by appellate courts may overturn this lower court ruling,
the Regional Bell Operating companies continue to seek regulatory approval to
provide national long distance services. As courts or regulators remove
restrictions on the Regional Bell Operating Companies, they will be both
important potential customers and important potential competitors of Network.
 
OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
 
     Williams Communications owns part of its fiber-optic transmission
facilities and leases the remainder. Approximately 11,000-route miles of its
owned facilities are comprised of a single fiber, which is on a portion of the
fiber optic network of WorldCom, Inc. ("WorldCom") and is restricted to
multimedia content usage. Williams Communications retained this fiber when a
predecessor of WorldCom purchased the Company's network services operations in
1995. Williams Communications and WorldCom are currently in litigation to
clarify, among other things, whether the usage restriction would permit internet
services and Williams Communications' right to purchase additional WorldCom
fiber. Williams Communications carries signals by means of its own fiber-optics
facilities, as well as carrying signals over fiber-optic facilities leased from
third-party interexchange carriers and the various local exchange carriers.
Williams Communications holds its satellite transponder capacity under various
agreements. Williams Communications owns part of its teleport facilities and
holds the remainder under either a management agreement or long-term facilities
leases.
 
     Williams Network intends to obtain capacity primarily by means of the fiber
optic networks Williams Communications is constructing or plans to construct or
acquire, as well as acquiring dark fiber rights on fiber optic facilities of
other carriers. Network obtains dark fiber rights in the form of the purchase or
lease of "indefeasible rights of use" or "IRUs" in specific fiber strands.
Purchased IRUs have many of the characteristics of ownership, including many of
the associated risks, but the owner of the fiber optic cable retains legal title
to the fibers.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
     Williams Communications is subject to federal, state, and local laws and
regulations relating to the environmental aspects of its business. Management
believes that Williams Communications' operations are in substantial compliance
with existing environmental legal requirements. Management expects that
compliance with such existing environmental legal requirements will not have a
material adverse effect on the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive
position of Williams Communications.
 

 
                               OTHER INFORMATION
 
     Williams believes that it has adequate sources and availability of raw
materials to assure the continued supply of its services and products for
existing and anticipated business needs. Williams' pipeline systems are all
regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on the investments
made in the systems being limited to standards permitted by the regulatory
bodies. Each of the pipeline systems has ongoing capital requirements for
efficiency and mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also
necessitating periodic capital outlays.
 
     A plant site in Pensacola, Florida, that was previously operated by a
former subsidiary of Williams, has been placed on the National Priorities List.
This former subsidiary has also been identified as a potentially responsible
party at a National Priorities List cleanup site in Michigan. A third site,
located in Lakeland, Florida, which was formerly owned and operated by this
subsidiary, is under investigation by the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection and cleanup is anticipated. Williams does not believe that the
ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after
consideration of insurance coverage, contribution or other indemnification
arrangements, will have a material adverse financial effect on the Company. See
Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     At December 31, 1997, the Company had approximately 15,000 full-time
employees, of whom approximately 2,300 were represented by unions and covered by
collective bargaining agreements. The Company considers its relations with its
employees to be generally good.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
 
     Certain matters discussed in this report, excluding historical information,
include forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes such
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can
be given that every objective will be reached. Such statements are made in
reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
     As required by such Act, the Company hereby identifies the following
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any
results projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted by the Company in
forward-looking statements: (i) risks and uncertainties impacting the Company as
a whole relate to changes in general economic conditions in the United States;
the availability and cost of capital; changes in laws and regulations to which
the Company is subject, including tax, environmental and employment laws and
regulations; the cost and effects of legal and administrative claims and
proceedings against the Company or its subsidiaries or which may be brought
against the Company or its subsidiaries; conditions of the capital markets
utilized by the Company to access capital to finance operations; and, to the
extent the Company increases its investments and activities abroad, such
investments and activities will be subject to foreign economies, laws, and
regulations; (ii) for the Company's regulated businesses, risks and
uncertainties primarily relate to the impact of future federal and state
regulations of business activities, including allowed rates of return and the
resolution of other matters discussed herein; and (iii) risks and uncertainties
associated with the Company's unregulated businesses primarily relate to energy
prices and the ability of such entities to develop expanded markets and product
offerings as well as their ability to maintain existing markets. It is also
possible that certain aspects of the Company's businesses that are currently
unregulated may be subject to both federal and state regulation in the future.
In addition, future utilization of pipeline capacity will depend on energy
prices, competition from other pipelines and alternate fuels, the general level
of natural gas and petroleum product demand and weather conditions, among other
things. Further, gas prices, which directly impact transportation and gathering
and processing throughput and operating profit, may fluctuate in unpredictable
ways as may corn prices, which directly affect the Company's ethanol business.
Factors impacting future results of the Company's communications business
include successful completion of its network build, technological developments,
high levels of competition, lack of customer diversification, and general
uncertainties of governmental regulation.
 
(d) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
     Williams has no significant foreign operations.
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     See Item 1(c) for description of properties.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     For information regarding certain proceedings pending before federal
regulatory agencies, see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Williams is also subject to other ordinary routine litigation incidental to its
businesses.
 
  Contract reformations and gas purchase deficiencies
 
     As a result of FERC Order 636, which requires interstate gas pipelines to
change the way they do business, each of the natural gas pipeline subsidiaries
has undertaken the reformation or termination of its respective gas supply
contracts. None of the pipelines has any significant pending supplier
take-or-pay, ratable take or minimum take claims.
 
     Current FERC policy associated with Orders 436 and 500 requires interstate
gas pipelines to absorb some of the cost of reforming gas supply contracts
before allowing any recovery through direct bill or surcharges to transportation
as well as sales commodity rates. Under Orders 636, 636-A, 636-B and 636-C,
costs incurred to comply with these rules are permitted to be recovered in full,
although a percentage of such costs must be allocated to interruptible
transportation service.
 
     Pursuant to a stipulation and agreement approved by the FERC, Williams Gas
Pipelines Central (Central) has made 11 filings to direct bill take-or-pay and
gas supply realignment costs. The total amount approved for direct billing, net
of certain amounts collected subject to refunds, is $67 million. An intervenor
has filed protests seeking to have the FERC review the prudence and eligibility
of approximately $40 million of costs covered by these filings. On July 31,
1996, the administrative law judge issued an initial decision rejecting the
intervenor's prudency challenge. On September 30, 1997, the FERC, by a
two-to-one vote, reversed the administrative law judge and determined that three
life-of-lease producer contracts were imprudently entered into in 1982. Central
has filed for rehearing, and management plans to vigorously defend the prudency
of these contracts. An intervenor has also filed a protest seeking to have the
FERC decide whether non-settlement costs are eligible for recovery under Order
No. 636. In January 1997, the FERC held that none of the non-settlement costs
could be recovered by Central if these costs were not eligible for recovery
under Order No. 636. This order was affirmed on rehearing in April 1997. An
initial decision from the administrative law judge is expected in the first
quarter of 1998. If the FERC's final ruling on eligibility is unfavorable,
Central will appeal these orders to the courts. Central will make additional
filings under the applicable FERC orders to recover such additional costs as may
be incurred in the future.
 
     Because of the uncertainties pertaining to the outcome of these issues
currently pending at the FERC and the status of settlement negotiation and
various other factors, Central cannot reasonably estimate the costs that may be
incurred nor the related amounts that could be recovered from customers. Central
is actively pursuing negotiations with the producers to resolve all outstanding
obligations under the contracts. Based on the terms of what Central believes
would be a reasonable settlement, $94 million has been accrued as a liability at
December 31, 1997, including a $5 million fourth-quarter 1997 charge to expense
for additional absorption of future costs. Central also has an $88 million
regulatory asset at December 31, 1997, for estimated recovery of future costs
from customers. Central cannot predict the final outcome of the FERC's rulings
on contract prudency and cost recovery under Order No. 636 and is unable to
determine the ultimate liability and loss, if any, at this time. If Central does
not prevail in these FERC proceedings or any subsequent appeals, and if Central
is able to reach a settlement with the producers consistent with the $94 million
accrued liability, the loss could be the total of the regulatory asset and the
$40 million of protested assets. Central continues to believe that it entered
into the gas purchase contracts in a prudent manner under FERC rules in place at
the time. Central also believes that the future recovery of these costs would be
in accordance with the terms of Order No. 636.
 

 
     The foregoing accruals are in accordance with Williams' accounting policies
regarding the establishment of such accruals which take into consideration
estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk-weighted, as well as costs and
other risks associated with the difference between the time costs are incurred
and the time such costs are recovered from customers. The estimated portion of
such costs recoverable from customers is deferred or recorded as a regulatory
asset based on an estimate of expected recovery of the amounts allowed by FERC
policy. While Williams believes that these accruals are adequate and the
associated regulatory assets are appropriate, costs actually incurred and
amounts actually recovered from customers will depend upon the outcome of
various court and FERC proceedings, the success of settlement negotiations and
various other factors, not all of which are presently foreseeable.
 
  Environmental matters
 
     Since 1989, Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line have had studies
under way to test certain of their facilities for the presence of toxic and
hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation may be
necessary. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line has responded to data requests
regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites. The costs of any
such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation. At December 31,
1997, these subsidiaries had reserves totaling approximately $28 million for
these costs.
 
     Certain Williams subsidiaries, including Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, have been identified as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at
various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these
subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other
hazardous materials removal or remediation obligations under environmental laws.
Although no assurances can be given, Williams does not believe that the PRP
status of these subsidiaries will have a material adverse effect on its
financial position, results of operations or net cash flows.
 
     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have identified
polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in air compressor systems, soils
and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have also been involved in negotiations with
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies to develop
screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In addition, negotiations with certain
environmental authorities and other programs concerning investigative and
remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at certain gas
metering sites have been commenced by Central, Texas Gas and Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line. As of December 31, 1997, Central had recorded a liability for
approximately $17 million, representing the current estimate of future
environmental cleanup costs to be incurred over the next six to ten years. The
Field Services unit of Energy Services had recorded an aggregate liability of
approximately $12 million, representing the current estimate of its future
environmental and remediation costs, including approximately $5 million relating
to former Central facilities. Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
likewise had recorded liabilities for these costs which are included in the $28
million reserve mentioned above. Actual costs incurred will depend on the actual
number of contaminated sites identified, the actual amount and extent of
contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and
other governmental authorities and other factors. Texas Gas, Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line and Central have deferred these costs pending recovery as incurred
through future rates and other means.
 
     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company,
Williams agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs
resulting from certain conditions at specified locations, to the extent such
costs exceed a specified amount. Such costs have exceeded this amount. At
December 31, 1997, Williams had approximately $11 million accrued for such
excess costs. The actual costs incurred will depend on the actual amount and
extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the
EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors.
 
     A lawsuit was filed in May 1993 in a state court in Colorado in which
certain claims have been made against various defendants, including Northwest
Pipeline, contending that gas exploration and development activities in portions
of the San Juan Basin have caused air, water and other contamination. The
plaintiffs in the case sought certification of a plaintiff class. In June 1994,
the lawsuit was dismissed for failure to join an
 

 
indispensable party over which the state court had no jurisdiction. The Colorado
court of appeals has affirmed the dismissal and remanded the case to Colorado
district court for action consistent with the appeals court's decision. Since
June 1994, eight individual lawsuits have been filed against Northwest Pipeline
and others in U.S. district court in Colorado, making essentially the same
claims. The district court has stayed all of the cases involving Northwest
Pipeline until the plaintiffs exhaust their remedies before the Southern Ute
Indian Tribal Court. Some plaintiffs filed cases in the Tribal court, but none
named Northwest Pipeline as a defendant.
 
  Other legal matters
 
     Williams Communications owns one fiber, which is restricted to media
content usage, on a portion of the fiber optic network of WorldCom, Inc.
("WorldCom"). Williams Communications retained this fiber, along with an option
to purchase additional fiber from WorldCom in connection with WorldCom's
subsequent fiber builds, acquisitions, and expansions, when a predecessor of
WorldCom purchased the Company's network services operations in 1995. On March
20, 1998, Williams Communications filed suit in Oklahoma District Court in Tulsa
County against WorldCom claiming that WorldCom had failed to fulfill its
obligations associated with the single fiber as well as a number of other
obligations arising from the agreements entered into in 1995 in conjunction with
the network services operations sale.
 
     In 1991, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe (the Tribe) filed a lawsuit against
Williams Production Company (Williams Production), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Williams, and other gas producers in the San Juan Basin area, alleging that
certain coal strata were reserved by the United States for the benefit of the
Tribe and that the extraction of coal-seam gas from the coal strata was
wrongful. The Tribe seeks compensation for the value of the coal-seam gas. The
Tribe also seeks an order transferring to the Tribe ownership of all of the
defendants' equipment and facilities utilized in the extraction of the coal-seam
gas. In September 1994, the court granted summary judgment in favor of the
defendants and the Tribe lodged an interlocutory appeal with the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Williams Production agreed to indemnify the
Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (Trust) against any losses that may arise
in respect of certain properties subject to the lawsuit. In addition, if the
Tribe is successful in showing that Williams Production has no rights in the
coal-seam gas, Williams Production has agreed to pay to the Trust for
distribution to then-current unitholders, an amount representing a return of a
portion of the original purchase price paid for the units. On July 16, 1997, the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed the decision of the
district court, held that the Tribe owns the coal-seam gas produced from certain
coal strata on fee lands within the exterior boundaries of the Tribe's
reservation, and remanded the case to the district court for further
proceedings. On September 16, 1997, Amoco Production Company, the class
representative for the defendant class (of which Williams Production is a part),
filed its motion for rehearing en banc before the Court of Appeals. On December
4, 1997, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed to rehear the appeal.
 
     In connection with agreements to resolve take-or-pay and other contract
claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and
Texas Gas each entered into certain settlements with producers which may require
the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties which the
producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. In one of the
two remaining cases, a jury verdict found that Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
was required to pay to a producer damages of $23.3 million including $3.8
million in attorneys' fees. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line is considering an
appeal. In the other remaining case, a producer has asserted damages, including
interest calculated through December 31, 1996, of approximately $6 million.
 
  Summary
 
     While no assurances may be given, Williams does not believe that the
ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after
consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery from customers or
other indemnification arrangements, will have a materially adverse effect upon
Williams' future financial position, results of operations or cash flow
requirements.
 

 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF WILLIAMS
 
     The names, ages, positions and earliest election dates of the executive
officers of Williams are:
 

 
     All of the above officers have been employed by Williams or its
subsidiaries as officers or otherwise for more than five years and have had no
other employment during such period.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS
 
     Williams' Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Stock
exchanges under the symbol "WMB." At the close of business on December 31, 1997,
Williams had approximately 12,250 holders of record of its Common Stock. The
daily closing price ranges (composite transactions) and dividends declared by
quarter for each of the past two years (adjusted to reflect the December 29,
1997, two-for-one common stock split and distribution) are as follows:
 

 
     On December 29, 1997, the Company distributed one additional share of
Common Stock of the Company, $1 par value, for every share of Common Stock
outstanding on December 5, 1997, pursuant to a two-for-one stock split.
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The following financial data are an integral part of, and should be read in
conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.
Information concerning significant trends in the financial condition and results
of operations is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations on pages F-1 THROUGH F-13 of this report.
 

 
- - ---------------
 
(1) See Notes 2 and 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    discussion of the gain on sale of interest in subsidiary, significant asset
    sales and write-offs in 1997, 1996 and 1995. Income from continuing
    operations in 1994 includes a $22.7 million pre-tax gain from the sale of a
    portion of Williams' interest in Northern Border Partners, L.P. Income from
    continuing operations in 1993 includes a pre-tax gain of $51.6 million as a
    result of the sale of 6.1 million units in the Williams Coal Seam Gas
    Royalty Trust.
 
(2) See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
    the gain from the 1995 sale of discontinued operations. Amounts prior to
    1995 reflect operating results of the network services' operations.
 
(3) See Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
    the 1997 extraordinary loss.
 
(4) Per-share amounts reflect the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share," and the effect of the December 29,
    1997, common stock split and distribution as discussed in Notes 1 and 15,
    respectively, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS, AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  1997 vs. 1996
 
     CENTRAL'S revenues increased $6 million, or 3 percent, due primarily to the
net effect of adjustments to certain accruals in 1997. Total throughput
decreased 4.2 TBtu, or 1 percent, due primarily to lower interruptible volumes.
 
     Other (income) expense -- net includes a $7 million gain from the
sale-in-place of natural gas from a decommissioned storage field.
 
     Operating profit increased $12.2 million, or 27 percent, due primarily to
the gain from the sale-in-place of natural gas, lower operating and maintenance
expenses, an increase in firm reserved capacity and lower general and
administrative expenses.
 
     KERN RIVER GAS TRANSMISSION'S (KERN RIVER) revenues increased $6.5 million,
or 4 percent, due primarily to a full year of Williams' ownership in 1997 as
compared to 1996 and increased transportation revenues. Results for 1996 reflect
operations from January 16, 1996, when Williams acquired the remaining interest
in
 
                                       F-1

 
Kern River. Total throughput increased 15.5 TBtu, or 6 percent, due primarily to
the full year of Williams' ownership in 1997 and increased firm transportation
volumes during the last half of 1997.
 
     Operating profit increased $7.3 million, or 6 percent, due primarily to the
full year of Williams' ownership in 1997, higher transportation revenues and
lower operations and maintenance expenses, partially offset by the impact of
Kern River's levelized rate design.
 
     NORTHWEST PIPELINE'S revenues increased $3.4 million, or 1 percent, due
primarily to a new rate design, effective March 1, 1997, that enabled greater
short-term firm and interruptible transportation volumes and a $3.5 million gain
on the sale of system balancing gas. Largely offsetting these increases were $7
million of adjustments to rate refund accruals in 1997 and the effect of $9
million of revenue in 1996 associated with reserve reversals and favorable
regulatory decisions. Total throughput decreased 120.3 TBtu, or 14 percent, as a
result of the 1996 sale of the south-end facilities.
 
     Operating profit decreased $900,000, or 1 percent, due primarily to the
combined impact of the increase to rate reserve accruals in 1997 and recognition
in 1996 of favorable regulatory actions, significantly offset by the new
transportation rates effective in 1997, lower operating and maintenance expenses
and the $3.5 million gain on the sale of system balancing gas.
 
     TEXAS GAS TRANSMISSION'S revenues decreased $13.1 million, or 4 percent,
and costs and operating expenses decreased $13 million, or 8 percent, due
primarily to lower reimbursable costs passed through to customers as provided in
Texas Gas' rates including $6 million related to the suspension of gas supply
realignment cost recovery from firm transportation customers. Total throughput
decreased 20.9 TBtu, or 3 percent.
 
     Operating profit increased $2.5 million, or 3 percent, due primarily to
cost reductions and efficiency efforts and the favorable resolutions in 1997 of
certain contractual and regulatory issues, partially offset by lower gas
processing revenue and favorable 1996 adjustments to rate refund accruals.
 
     TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE'S (TRANSCO) revenues increased $5.9 million,
or 1 percent, due primarily to the effects of a mainline expansion placed into
service in late 1996, new services begun in late 1997, new rates effective May
1, 1997, to recover costs associated with increased capital expenditures, and
the effects of a 1996 downward adjustment (offset in costs) of $14 million to
reflect a rate case settlement, partially offset by $23 million of lower
reimbursable costs passed through to customers as provided in Transco's rates.
Total throughput decreased 21.1 TBtu, or 1 percent, due primarily to milder
weather during 1997 as compared to 1996, which lowered firm long-haul and
production area interruptible transportation volumes.
 
     Costs and operating expenses decreased $17.3 million, or 4 percent, due
primarily to the lower reimbursable costs charged to Transco and passed through
to customers, lower operation and maintenance expenses and a $5.4 million
settlement related to a prior rate proceeding, partially offset by the effect of
a 1996 downward adjustment (offset in revenues) of $14 million to depreciation
expense to reflect a rate case settlement and higher depreciation expense in
1997 associated with recent capital expenditures.
 
     Operating profit increased $30.7 million, or 16 percent, due primarily to
lower operation and maintenance expenses, the $5.4 million settlement and the
effects of the mainline expansion, new services and the new rates effective May
1, 1997, slightly offset by higher depreciation expense.
 
     ENERGY MARKETING & TRADING'S revenues decreased $125.3 million, or 48
percent, and costs and operating expenses decreased $141 million, or 93 percent,
due primarily to the 1997 reporting on a net margin basis of certain natural gas
and gas liquids marketing operations previously not considered to be included in
trading operations. Excluding this decrease, revenues increased $16 million due
primarily to the initial income recognition from long-term electric power
contracts, increased physical and notional natural gas volumes of 22 percent and
44 percent, respectively, and higher petroleum trading volumes, partially offset
by lower natural gas trading margins as a result of decreased price volatility.
Revenues also increased from project financing services for energy producers and
the sale of excess transportation capacity.
 
                                       F-2

 
     Operating profit increased $4.2 million, or 6 percent, due primarily to the
$16 million increase in net revenues and a $6.3 million recovery of an account
previously written off, largely offset by the expenses associated with expansion
of business growth platforms.
 
     EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION'S revenues increased $47.7 million, or 58 percent,
due primarily to higher average natural gas sales prices for company-owned
production and from the marketing of Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust
(Royalty Trust) natural gas, and a 21 percent increase in company-owned
production volumes.
 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $23 million, or 32 percent, due
primarily to higher Royalty Trust natural gas purchase prices, increased
production activities and higher dry hole costs.
 
     Operating profit increased $27.5 million, from $2.8 million in 1996, due
primarily to the increase in average natural gas prices and company-owned
production volumes, partially offset by higher expenses associated with
increased activity levels.
 
     FIELD SERVICES' revenues increased $74 million, or 12 percent, due
primarily to higher natural gas liquids sales of $44 million, receipt of $8
million of business interruption insurance proceeds related to a 1996 claim, and
higher gathering, processing and condensate revenues of $7 million, $5 million
and $11 million, respectively. Natural gas liquids sales increased due to a 37
percent increase in volumes, slightly offset by lower average sales prices.
 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $79 million, or 20 percent, due
primarily to $56 million higher fuel and replacement gas purchases, a $9 million
increase in operating and maintenance expenses, and $8 million higher
depreciation.
 
     Other (income) expense -- net for 1996 includes a $20 million gain from the
property insurance coverage associated with construction of replacement
gathering facilities and $6 million of gains from the sale of two small
gathering systems, partially offset by $5 million of environmental remediation
accruals.
 
     Operating profit decreased $24.4 million, or 13 percent, due primarily to
lower per-unit liquids margins, the $12 million net effect of lower insurance
recoveries between 1997 and 1996, higher operating and maintenance expenses,
increased depreciation, and higher gathering fuel and replacement gas purchase
costs, partially offset by increased liquids and processing volumes.
 
     PETROLEUM SERVICES' revenues increased $55.4 million, or 11 percent, due
primarily to a $24 million increase in product sales from transportation
activities and a $27 million increase in ethanol sales. Ethanol sales increased
as a result of 22 percent higher sales volumes, partially offset by lower
average ethanol sales prices. Ethanol production was reduced during the second
half of 1996 due to unfavorable market conditions. Pipeline shipments and
average rates were comparable to 1996.
 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $33 million, or 9 percent, due
primarily to the increase in refined product sales and ethanol production,
partially offset by lower corn costs.
 
     Operating profit increased $21.3 million, or 28 percent, due primarily to
increased ethanol sales volumes and per-unit margins.
 
     COMMUNICATIONS' revenues increased $734 million, or 103 percent, due
primarily to acquisitions which contributed revenues of approximately $650
million, including $536 million from the acquisition of the customer premise
equipment sales and services operations of Northern Telecom. Additionally,
increased business activity resulted in a $119 million revenue increase in new
system sales, partially offset by a $46 million decrease in system modification
revenues. The number of ports in service at December 31, 1997, more than doubled
as compared to December 31, 1996, due primarily to the Nortel acquisition. Fiber
billable minutes from occasional service increased 47 percent. Dedicated service
voice-grade equivalent miles at December 31, 1997, increased 26 percent as
compared with December 31, 1996.
 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $550 million, or 102 percent, due
primarily to acquired operations, the overall increase in business activity,
higher expenses for developing advanced network applications and increased
depreciation associated with added capacity. Selling, general and administrative
                                       F-3

 
expenses increased $198 million, or 121 percent, due primarily to acquired
operations, the overall increase in business activity, higher expenses for
developing advanced network applications and expanding the infrastructure of
this business for future growth.
 
     Other (income) expense -- net includes $49.8 million of charges in 1997
related to the decision to sell the learning content business, and the
write-down of assets and the development expenses associated with certain
advanced applications.
 
     Operating profit decreased $62.3 million from a $6.6 million operating
profit in 1996 to a $55.7 million operating loss in 1997, due primarily to the
other expense charges of $49.8 million and the expense of developing
infrastructure while integrating the most recent acquisitions, partially offset
by improved operating profit from Communications Solutions including the impact
of the Nortel acquisition.
 
     GENERAL CORPORATE EXPENSES increased $9.5 million, or 23 percent, due
primarily to costs related to the pending MAPCO acquisition and higher
consulting fees. Interest accrued increased $44.6 million, or 12 percent, due
primarily to higher borrowing levels including increased borrowing under the $1
billion bank-credit facility and Williams Holdings' commercial paper program,
partially offset by a lower average interest rate. The lower average interest
rate reflects lower rates on new 1997 borrowings as compared to previously
outstanding borrowings. Interest capitalized increased $9 million, or 132
percent, due primarily to capital expenditures for Communications' fiber-optic
network. For information concerning the 1997 gain on sale of interest in
subsidiary, see Note 2. The 1996 gain on sales of assets results from the sale
of certain communication rights. The minority interest in income of consolidated
subsidiaries in 1997 is related primarily to the 30 percent interest held by
Williams Communications Solutions, LLC's minority shareholders (see Note 2). The
$12 million unfavorable change in other income (expense) -- net in 1997 is due
primarily to the costs associated with expansion of the sale of receivables
program in 1997 and the effect of $10 million of reserve reversals in 1996,
partially offset by lower environmental accruals in 1997.
 
     The provision for income taxes on continuing operations decreased $5.1
million, or 3 percent. The effective income tax rate in 1997 is less than the
federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of the non-taxable gain
recognized in 1997 (see Note 2) and income tax credits from coal-seam gas
production, partially offset by the effects of state income taxes. The effective
tax rate in 1996 is less than the federal statutory rate due primarily to income
tax credits from research activities and coal-seam gas production, partially
offset by the effects of state income taxes. In addition, 1996 includes
recognition of favorable adjustments totaling $13 million related to previously
provided deferred income taxes on certain regulated capital projects and state
income tax adjustments.
 
     The 1997 extraordinary loss results from the early extinguishment of debt
(see Note 8).
 
  1996 vs. 1995
 
     CENTRAL'S revenues increased $4.1 million, or 2 percent, due primarily to
increased transportation revenue resulting from new tariff rates that became
effective August 1, 1995. Total throughput increased 6.9 TBtu, or 2 percent.
 
     Operating profit was substantially the same as the prior year as the effect
of a $4 million 1995 reversal of a regulatory accrual was offset by new tariff
rates that became effective August 1, 1995.
 
     KERN RIVER'S remaining interest was acquired by Williams on January 16,
1996. Revenues and operating profit amounts for 1996 include the operating
results of Kern River since the acquisition date. Kern River's revenues were
$160.6 million for 1996, while costs and operating expenses were $35 million,
selling, general and administrative expenses were $13 million and operating
profit was $113 million. Prior to the acquisition, Williams accounted for its 50
percent ownership in Kern River using the equity method of accounting, with its
share of equity earnings recorded in investing income. Throughput was 269.9 TBtu
during 1996 (for the period subsequent to the acquisition date). Throughput for
1996 is comparable to 1995.
 
     NORTHWEST PIPELINE'S revenues increased $14.5 million, or 6 percent, due
primarily to increased transportation rates, effective February 1, 1996,
associated with the expansion of mainline capacity placed into
 
                                       F-4

 
service on December 1, 1995. In addition, $9 million of revenue in 1996
associated with reserve reversals and favorable regulatory decisions was more
than offset by the effect of the 1995 reversal of approximately $16 million of
accrued liabilities for estimated rate refund accruals. Total throughput
increased 8 TBtu, or 1 percent.
 
     Operating profit increased $9.2 million, or 8 percent, due primarily to
increased transportation rates associated with the expansion of mainline
capacity, and the reserve reversals and favorable regulatory decisions.
Partially offsetting were higher depreciation expense associated with the
mainline expansion and the approximate $11 million net favorable effect of two
1995 reserve accrual adjustments. The 1995 reserve accrual adjustments included
a $16 million favorable adjustment of rate refund accruals based on a favorable
rate case order, partially offset by a loss accrual (included in other (income)
expense -- net) in connection with a lawsuit involving a former transportation
customer.
 
     TEXAS GAS TRANSMISSION'S revenues and operating profit increased $29.8
million, or 11 percent, and $21.1 million, or 33 percent, respectively, due
primarily to new rates that became effective April 1, 1995, and an adjustment to
regulatory accruals based upon a recent rate case settlement. Also, 1995
reflected operations from January 18, when Williams acquired a majority interest
in Transco Energy. Revenues associated with the period January 1 through January
17, 1995, were $16 million. Total throughput increased 141.1 TBtu, or 22
percent, due primarily to a full year of Williams' ownership in 1996 compared to
a partial year in 1995 and the impact of a colder winter in 1996.
 
     TRANSCO'S revenues increased $35.1 million, or 5 percent, due primarily to
higher natural gas transportation revenues and liquids and liquefiable
transportation revenues of $20 million and $9 million, respectively.
Additionally, revenue for 1996 reflects a full year of Williams' ownership as
compared with 1995, which reflected operations from January 18, 1995, when
Williams acquired a majority interest in Transco Energy. Revenues associated
with the period January 1 through January 17, 1995, were approximately $36
million. Offsetting these increases were lower revenues resulting from lower
transportation costs charged to Transco by others and passed through to
customers as provided in Transco's rates. Transportation revenues increased due
primarily to increased long-haul throughput, which benefitted from a two-phase
system expansion placed in service in late 1996 and late 1995, and new rates
effective September 1, 1995, which allowed the passthrough of increased costs.
Total throughput increased 176.1 TBtu, or 12 percent, due primarily to a full
year of Williams' ownership in 1996 compared to a partial year in 1995.
 
     Operating profit increased $29.6 million, or 18 percent, due primarily to
increased transportation revenues, lower general and administrative expenses and
a full year of Williams' ownership in 1996, partially offset by higher operation
and maintenance expenses and higher taxes other than income taxes.
 
     ENERGY MARKETING & TRADING'S revenues increased $107.6 million, or 70
percent, due primarily to higher natural gas and gas liquids marketing,
price-risk management activities and petroleum product marketing of $77 million,
$24 million and $18 million, respectively, partially offset by lower contract
origination revenues of $10 million. Natural gas and gas liquids marketing
revenues increased due to higher marketing volumes and prices. In addition, net
physical trading revenues increased $3 million, due to a 19 percent increase in
natural gas physical trading volumes from 754 TBtu to 896 TBtu, largely offset
by lower physical trading margins.
 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $73 million, or 94 percent, due
primarily to higher natural gas purchase volumes and prices.
 
     Operating profit increased $33.2 million, or 100 percent, due primarily to
higher price-risk management revenues, a reduction of development costs
associated with its information products business and increased natural gas
marketing volumes. Partially offsetting were higher selling, general and
administrative expenses and lower contract origination revenues resulting from
the impact of profits realized from certain long-term natural gas supply
obligations in 1995.
 
     EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION'S revenues increased $19.5 million, or 31 percent,
due primarily to higher revenues from the marketing of production from the
Royalty Trust and increased production revenues of $9 million and $8 million,
respectively. The increase in marketing revenues reflects both increased volumes
and higher average gas prices. The increase in production revenues reflects
higher average gas prices.
 
                                       F-5

 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $18 million due primarily to higher
Royalty Trust natural gas purchase costs. Other (income) expense -- net in 1995
includes an $8 million loss accrual for a future minimum price natural gas
commitment.
 
     Operating profit increased $8.7 million to $2.8 million in 1996 due
primarily to the effect of the $8 million 1995 loss accrual.
 
     FIELD SERVICES' revenues increased $83.4 million, or 16 percent, due
primarily to higher natural gas liquids sales revenues of $64 million combined
with higher gathering and processing revenues of $6 million and $13 million,
respectively. Natural gas liquids sales revenues increased due to a 36 percent
increase in volumes combined with higher average prices. Gathering and
processing volumes each increased 19 percent while average gathering rates
decreased.
 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $52 million, or 15 percent, due
primarily to higher fuel and replacement gas purchases, expanded facilities and
increased operations. Other (income) expense -- net for 1996 includes a $20
million gain from the property insurance coverage associated with construction
of replacement gathering facilities and $6 million of gains from the sale of two
small gathering systems, partially offset by $5 million of environmental
remediation accruals. Other (income) expense -- net for 1995 includes $20
million in operating profit from a favorable resolution of contingency issues
involving previously regulated gathering and processing assets.
 
     Operating profit increased $26.4 million, or 16 percent, due primarily to
higher natural gas liquids margins and higher gathering and processing revenues,
partially offset by higher costs and operating expenses. Operating profit was
favorably impacted in both 1996 and 1995 by approximately $20 million of other
income.
 
     PETROLEUM SERVICES' revenues increased $165.2 million, or 50 percent, due
primarily to an increase in transportation activities and ethanol sales of $31
million and $133 million, respectively. Revenues from transportation activities
increased due primarily to a 10 percent increase in shipments and a $14 million
increase in product sales. Shipments increased as a result of new business and
the 1995 impacts of unfavorable weather conditions and a fire at a truck-loading
rack. Average length of haul and transportation rate per barrel were slightly
below 1995 due primarily to shorter haul movements. Ethanol revenues increased
following the August 1995 acquisition of Pekin Energy and the fourth-quarter
1995 completion of the Aurora plant.
 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $155 million, or 68 percent, due
primarily to a full year of ethanol production activities.
 
     Operating profit increased $6.5 million, or 9 percent, due primarily to
increased shipments, partially offset by lower ethanol margins and production
levels as a result of record high corn prices.
 
     COMMUNICATIONS' revenues increased $172.4 million, or 32 percent, due
primarily to the 1996 acquisitions which contributed revenues of $95 million.
Additionally, increased business activity resulted in a $36 million revenue
increase in new systems sales and a $16 million increase in digital fiber
television services. The number of ports in service at December 31, 1996,
increased 8 percent and billable minutes from occasional service increased 16
percent. Dedicated service voice-grade equivalent miles at December 31, 1996,
decreased 6 percent as compared with December 31, 1995, which in part reflects a
shift to occasional service.
 
     Costs and operating expenses increased $126 million, or 31 percent, and
selling, general and administrative expenses increased $63 million, or 62
percent, due primarily to the overall increase in business activity and higher
expenses for developing additional products and services, including the cost of
integrating the most recent acquisitions.
 
     Operating profit decreased $18.4 million, or 74 percent, due primarily to
the expenses of developing additional products and services along with
integrating the most recent acquisitions.
 
     GENERAL CORPORATE EXPENSES increased $3.7 million, or 10 percent, due
primarily to higher employee compensation expense and consulting fees, partially
offset by the effect of a $5 million contribution in 1995 to The Williams
Companies Foundation. Interest accrued increased $82 million, or 30 percent, due
primarily to higher borrowing levels including debt associated with the January
1996 acquisition of the remaining interest in Kern River (see Note 2), slightly
offset by lower average interest rates. Interest capitalized decreased
                                       F-6

 
$7.6 million, or 53 percent, due primarily to lower capital expenditures for
gathering and processing facilities and the 1995 completion of Northwest
Pipeline's mainline expansion. Investing income decreased $75.1 million, or 80
percent, due primarily to the effect of interest earned in 1995 on the invested
portion of the cash proceeds from the sale of Williams' network services
operations, a $15 million dividend in 1995 from Texasgulf Inc. (sold in 1995),
and $31 million lower equity earnings from Williams' 50 percent ownership in
Kern River. Kern River's 1996 operating results are included in operating profit
since the acquisition date (see Note 2). The 1996 gain on sales of assets
results from the sale of certain communication rights. The 1995 loss on sales of
assets results from the sale of the 15 percent interest in Texasgulf Inc. The
1995 write-off of project costs results from the cancellation of an underground
coal gasification project in Wyoming (see Note 6). Minority interest in income
of consolidated subsidiaries in 1995 is associated with the Transco merger. The
$2 million favorable change in other income (expense) -- net in 1996 is due
primarily to approximately $10 million of reserve reversals in 1996, partially
offset by higher environmental accruals of $4 million and additional expense of
international activities.
 
     The $81.1 million, or 79 percent, increase in the provision for income
taxes on continuing operations is primarily a result of higher pre-tax income
and a higher effective income tax rate. The increase in the effective income tax
rate is the result of the 1995 recognition of $29.8 million of previously
unrecognized tax benefits realized as a result of the sale of Texasgulf Inc.
(see Note 6). The effective income tax rate in 1996 is less than the federal
statutory rate due primarily to income tax credits from research activities and
coal-seam gas production, partially offset by the effects of state income taxes.
In addition, 1996 includes recognition of favorable adjustments totaling $13
million related to previously provided deferred income taxes on certain
regulated capital projects and state income tax adjustments related to 1995. The
effective income tax rate in 1995 is less than the federal statutory rate due
primarily to income tax credits from coal-seam gas production, partially offset
by the effects of state income taxes and minority interest. In addition, 1995
includes the previously unrecognized tax benefits related to the sale of
Texasgulf Inc. (see Note 6) and recognition of an $8 million income tax benefit
resulting from settlements with taxing authorities (see Note 7).
 
     On January 5, 1995, Williams sold its network services operations to LDDS
Communications, Inc. for $2.5 billion in cash. The sale yielded an after-tax
gain of approximately $1 billion, which is reported as income from discontinued
operations (see Note 3).
 
     Preferred stock dividends decreased $4.9 million, or 32 percent, due
primarily to the 1995 effect of a difference in the fair value of subordinated
debentures issued and the carrying value of the exchanged $2.21 cumulative
preferred stock (see Note 15).
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY
 
  Debt Restructuring
 
     In September 1997, Williams initiated a restructuring of a portion of its
debt portfolio (see Note 14). As of December 31, 1997, Williams has paid
approximately $1.4 billion to redeem approximately $1.3 billion of debt with
stated interest rates in excess of 8.8 percent, resulting in an extraordinary
loss of $79.1 million (see Note 8). The restructuring is expected to reduce
interest expense by approximately $25 million annually. The restructuring was
temporarily financed with a combination of borrowings under the $1 billion
bank-credit facility, commercial paper and new short-term bank agreements with
commitments totaling $1.2 billion. Registration statements were filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission in September 1997 by Williams, Williams
Holdings of Delaware, Northwest Pipeline and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
(each a wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams). These additional filings brought
the total shelf financing availability to $900 million, $820 million, $400
million and $500 million, respectively, prior to the restructuring. During the
fourth quarter of 1997 and January 1998, $1.1 billion of debentures and notes
with interest rates ranging from 5.91 percent to 6.625 percent were issued under
these registration statements in connection with the restructuring. The
restructuring is expected to be completed during the first quarter of 1998 with
the issuance of additional long-term debt securities.
 
                                       F-7

 
  Liquidity
 
     Williams considers its liquidity to come from two sources: internal
liquidity, consisting of available cash investments, and external liquidity,
consisting of borrowing capacity from available bank-credit facilities and
Williams Holdings' commercial paper program, which can be utilized without
limitation under existing loan covenants. At December 31, 1997, Williams had
access to $155 million of liquidity including $132 million available under its
$1 billion bank-credit facility. This compares with liquidity of $550 million at
December 31, 1996, and $656 million at December 31, 1995. The decrease in 1997
is due primarily to additional borrowings under the bank-credit facility to
finance increased capital expenditures and to provide interim financing related
to the debt restructuring program.
 
     During 1997, Williams Holdings entered into a commercial paper program
backed by $650 million of new short-term bank-credit facilities. At December 31,
1997, $645 million of commercial paper was outstanding under the program. After
completion of the debt restructuring, Williams expects approximately $1 billion
of shelf availability to remain under outstanding registration statements. These
registration statements may be used to issue a variety of debt or equity
securities. In addition, short-term uncommitted bank lines are utilized in
managing liquidity. Williams believes any additional financing arrangements can
be obtained on reasonable terms if required.
 
     Williams had a net working-capital deficit of $772 million at December 31,
1997, compared with $309 million at December 31, 1996. Williams manages its
borrowings to keep cash and cash equivalents at a minimum and has relied on
bank-credit facilities to provide flexibility for its cash needs. As a result,
it historically has reported negative working capital. The increase in the
working-capital deficit at December 31, 1997, as compared to prior year-end is
primarily a result of short-term borrowings under the commercial paper program.
 
     Terms of certain borrowing agreements limit transfer of funds to Williams
from its subsidiaries. The restrictions have not impeded, nor are they expected
to impede, Williams' ability to meet its cash requirements in the future.
 
     During 1998, Williams expects to finance capital expenditures, investments
and working-capital requirements through cash generated from operations and the
use of the available portion of its $1 billion bank-credit facility, commercial
paper, short-term uncommitted bank lines and debt or equity public offerings.
 
  Operating Activities
 
     Cash provided by operating activities was: 1997 -- $920 million;
1996 -- $710 million; and 1995 -- $829 million. Receivables, inventories and
accounts payable increased due primarily to the combination of customer
equipment sales and services operations with Nortel (see Note 2) and increased
trading activities by Energy Marketing & Trading.
 
  Financing Activities
 
     Net cash provided (used) by financing activities was: 1997 -- $317 million;
1996 -- $734 million; and 1995 -- ($1.4) billion. Long-term debt principal
payments, net of debt proceeds, were $161 million during 1997, and notes payable
proceeds, net of notes payable payments, were $615 million during 1997. The
increase in notes payable at December 31, 1997, reflects borrowings under the
new commercial paper program to fund capital expenditures, investments and
acquisition of businesses. Long-term debt proceeds, net of principal payments,
were $609 million during 1996. The increase in net new borrowings during 1996
was primarily to fund capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions of
businesses. Long-term debt principal payments, net of debt proceeds, were $610
million during 1995. The net payments in 1995 were primarily a result of
payments Williams made to retire and/or terminate approximately $700 million of
Transco Energy's borrowings, preferred stock, interest-rate swaps and sale of
receivable facilities in connection with the acquisition of Transco Energy.
 
                                       F-8

 
     The proceeds from issuance of common stock in 1997, 1996 and 1995 include
Williams' benefit plan stock purchases and exercise of stock options under
Williams' stock plan. The 1995 proceeds from issuance of common stock also
includes $46.2 million from the sale of 3.6 million shares of Williams common
stock.
 
     The 1996 purchases of Williams' treasury stock include 1.9 million shares
of common stock on the open market for $31 million. The Williams' board of
directors authorized up to $800 million of such purchases. No additional shares
were purchased during 1997, and Williams' board of directors terminated the
repurchase program during the fourth quarter of 1997.
 
     Long-term debt at December 31, 1997, was $4.6 billion, compared with $4.4
billion at December 31, 1996, and $2.9 billion at December 31, 1995. At December
31, 1997 and 1996, $560 million and $200 million, respectively, in current debt
obligations have been classified as non-current obligations based on Williams'
intent and ability to refinance on a long-term basis. The 1996 increase in
long-term debt is due primarily to the $643 million outstanding debt assumed
with the acquisition of Kern River (see Note 2), $300 million in additional
borrowings under the $1 billion bank-credit facility and $250 million of debt
issued by Williams Holdings. The long-term debt to debt-plus-equity ratio was
56.1 percent for 1997 and 1996 compared to 47.4 percent at December 31, 1995. If
short-term notes payable and long-term debt due within one year are included in
the calculations, these ratios would be 59.7 percent, 57.9 percent and 50.1
percent, respectively.
 
  Investing Activities
 
     Net cash provided (used) by investing activities was: 1997 -- ($1.3)
billion; 1996 -- ($1.4) billion; and 1995 -- $585 million. Capital expenditures
of gas pipeline subsidiaries, primarily to expand and modernize systems, were
$419 million in 1997, $441 million in 1996, and $445 million in 1995.
Expenditures in 1997 and 1996 include Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's
expansion; expenditures in 1995 include Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and
Northwest Pipeline's expansions. Capital expenditures of Energy Services,
primarily to expand and modernize gathering and processing facilities, were $305
million in 1997, $292 million in 1996, and $336 million in 1995. Capital
expenditures of Communications were $276 million in 1997, $67 million in 1996,
and $32 million 1995. The 1997 expenditures include the fiber-optic network.
Budgeted capital expenditures and investments for 1998 are estimated to be
approximately $2.5 billion, primarily to expand and modernize pipeline systems,
gathering and processing facilities and the fiber-optic network. If the pending
MAPCO acquisition is completed, budgeted capital expenditures will increase an
estimated $400 million.
 
     On April 30, 1997, Williams and Northern Telecom (Nortel) combined their
customer-premise equipment sales and services operations into a limited
liability company, Williams Communications Solutions, LLC (LLC). In addition,
Williams paid $68 million to Nortel. Williams has accounted for its 70 percent
interest in the operations that Nortel contributed to the LLC as a purchase
business combination. Williams recorded the 30 percent reduction in its
operations contributed to the LLC as a sale to the minority shareholders of the
LLC (see Note 2). During 1997, Williams also purchased a 20 percent interest in
a foreign telecommunications business for $65 million in cash. During 1996,
Williams acquired the remaining interest in Kern River for $206 million cash
(see Note 2). In addition, during 1996 Williams acquired various communications
technology businesses totaling $165 million in cash. In 1995, Williams acquired
all of Transco Energy's outstanding common stock for cash of $430.5 million and
31.2 million shares of Williams common stock valued at $334 million (see Note
2). During 1995, Williams also acquired the Gas Company of New Mexico's natural
gas gathering and processing assets in the San Juan and Permian basins for $154
million and Pekin Energy Co., the nation's second largest ethanol producer, for
$167 million in cash.
 
     During 1995, Williams received proceeds of $2.5 billion in cash from the
sale of its network services operations (see Note 3) and proceeds of $124
million from the sale of its 15 percent interest in Texasgulf Inc. (see Note 6).
 
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
     See Note 1 for the effects of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," and SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."
                                       F-9

 
MAPCO ACQUISITION
 
     On November 24, 1997, Williams and MAPCO Inc. announced that they had
entered into a definitive merger agreement whereby Williams would acquire MAPCO
by exchanging 1.665 share of Williams common stock for each outstanding share of
MAPCO common stock. In addition, outstanding MAPCO employee stock options would
be converted into Williams common stock. Based on the closing market price of
Williams common stock on December 31, 1997, approximately 96.8 million shares of
Williams common stock valued at approximately $2.8 billion would be issued in
the transaction (see Note 19). The transaction closed on March 28, 1998.
 
EFFECTS OF INFLATION
 
     Williams has experienced increased costs in recent years due to the effects
of inflation. However, approximately 66 percent of Williams' property, plant and
equipment has been acquired or constructed since 1995, a period of relatively
low inflation. A substantial portion of Williams' property, plant and equipment
is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While
Williams believes it will be allowed the opportunity to earn a return based on
the actual cost incurred to replace existing assets, competition or other market
factors may limit the ability to recover such increased costs.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL
 
     Williams is a participant in certain environmental activities in various
stages involving assessment studies, cleanup operations and/or remedial
processes. The sites, some of which are not currently owned by Williams (see
Note 18), are being monitored by Williams, other potentially responsible
parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental
authorities in a coordinated effort. In addition, Williams maintains an active
monitoring program for its continued remediation and cleanup of certain sites
connected with its refined products pipeline activities. Williams has both joint
and several liability in some of these activities and sole responsibility in
others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such cleanup activities,
after payments by other parties, are approximately $73 million, all of which is
accrued at December 31, 1997. Williams expects to seek recovery of approximately
$41 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates.
Williams will fund these costs from operations and/or available bank-credit
facilities. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and
extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards
mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors.
 
YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE
 
     Williams has initiated an enterprise-wide project to address the year 2000
compliance issue for all technology hardware and software, external interfaces
with customers and suppliers, operations process control, automation and
instrumentation systems, and facility items. The assessment phase of this
project as it relates to traditional information technology areas should be
substantially complete by the end of the first quarter of 1998. Completion of
the assessment phase for non-traditional information technology areas is
expected in mid-1998. Necessary conversion and replacement activities will begin
in 1998 and continue through mid-1999. Testing of systems has begun and will
continue throughout the process. Williams has initiated a formal communications
process with other companies with which Williams' systems interface or rely on
to determine the extent to which those companies are addressing their year 2000
compliance, and where necessary, Williams will be working with those companies
to mitigate any material adverse effect on Williams.
 
     Williams expects to utilize both internal and external resources to
complete this process. Existing resources will be redeployed and previously
planned system replacements will be accelerated during this time. For example,
implementation of previously planned financial and human resources systems is
currently in process. These systems will address the year 2000 compliance issues
in certain areas. Costs incurred for new software and hardware purchases will be
capitalized and other costs will be expensed as incurred. For the regulated
pipelines, Williams considers costs associated with the year 2000 compliance to
be prudent costs
 
                                      F-10

 
incurred in the ordinary course of business, and, therefore, recoverable through
rates. While the total cost of this project is still being evaluated, Williams
estimates that external costs, excluding previously planned system replacements,
necessary to complete the project within the schedule described will total at
least $15 million. Williams will update this estimate as additional information
becomes available. The costs of the project and the completion dates are based
on management's best estimates, which were derived utilizing numerous
assumptions of future events, including the continued availability of certain
resources, third party year 2000 compliance modification plans and other
factors. There can be no guarantee that these estimates will be achieved and
actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
 
MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES
 
  Interest Rate Risk
 
     Williams' interest rate risk exposure results from short-term rates,
primarily LIBOR based borrowings from commercial banks and the issuance of
commercial paper, and long-term U.S. Treasury rates. To mitigate the impact of
fluctuations in interest rates, Williams targets to maintain a significant
portion of its debt portfolio in fixed rate debt. At December 31, 1997, the
amount of Williams' fixed and variable rate debt was approximately the same as a
result of a debt restructuring program begun in 1997 where Williams extinguished
higher cost long-term debt. During early 1998, the percent of fixed rate debt
will increase to targeted levels as Williams completes issuing long-term debt
under the restructuring program and repays its interim financings. The maturity
of Williams' long-term debt portfolio is influenced by the life of its operating
assets. Williams also utilizes interest rate swaps to change the ratio of its
fixed and variable rate debt portfolio based on management's assessment of
future interest rates, volatility of the yield curve and Williams' ability to
access the capital markets in a timely manner. Williams has entered into
interest rate forward contracts to establish an effective borrowing rate for
anticipated long-term debt issuances.
 
                                      F-11

 
     The following table provides information about Williams' notes payable,
long-term debt, interest rate swaps and interest rate forward contracts that are
subject to interest rate risk. For notes payable and long-term debt, the table
presents principal cash flows and weighted average interest rates by expected
maturity dates. For interest rate swaps and interest rate forward contracts, the
table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by
contractual maturity dates. Notional amounts are used to calculate the
contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the interest rate swaps and the
settlement amounts under the interest rate forward contracts.
 

 
Average locked in rate of 5.9 percent referenced to underlying Treasury
securities having a weighted-average maturity of 6 years.
 
(1) LIBOR plus .33 percent.
 
(2) LIBOR, except $250 million notional amount maturing after 2002 is at LIBOR
    less 1.04 percent.
 
(3) Counterparties have an option to cancel all outstanding swaps in 2001.
 
(4) LIBOR.
 
  Commodity Price Risk
 
     Energy Marketing & Trading has trading operations that provide price risk
management services to third-party customers. The trading operations have
commodity price risk exposure associated with the crude oil, natural gas,
refined products, natural gas liquids and electricity energy markets in the
United States and the natural gas markets in Canada. The trading operations
enter into energy-related financial instruments (forward contracts, futures
contracts, option contracts and swap agreements) and have commodity inventories
and purchase and sale commitments which involve the physical delivery of an
energy commodity. These financial instruments and physical positions and
commitments are valued at market value and unrealized gains and losses from
changes in market value are recognized in income. The trading operations are
subject to risk from changes in energy commodity market prices, the portfolio
position of its financial instruments and physical commitments, the liquidity of
the market in which the contract is transacted, changes in interest rates and
credit risk. Energy Marketing & Trading manages risk by maintaining its
portfolio within established trading policy guidelines. A Risk Control Group,
independent of the trading operations, monitors compliance with established
trading policy guidelines and measures the risk associated with the trading
portfolio.
 
     Energy Marketing & Trading uses a value at risk methodology to estimate the
potential one day loss from adverse changes in the market value of its trading
operations. At December 31, 1997, the value at risk for the trading operations
is $4 million. This reflects a 97.5 percent probability that as a result of
changes in
 
                                      F-12

 
commodity prices, the one day loss in the market value of the trading portfolio
will not exceed the value at risk. The value at risk includes all the financial
instruments and physical positions and commitments that expose the trading
operations to market risk. The value-at-risk model estimates assume normal
market conditions based upon historical market prices. Value at risk does not
purport to represent actual losses in market value that could be incurred from
the trading portfolio, nor does it consider that changing our trading portfolio
in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take
longer to execute than the one-day holding period assumed in our value at risk
model.
 
  Foreign Currency Risk
 
     Williams has investments in companies whose operations are located in
foreign countries, of which $87 million are accounted for using the cost method.
Fair value for the cost method investments is deemed to approximate their
carrying amount, because estimating cash flows by year is not practicable given
that the time frame for selling these investments is uncertain. Williams'
financial results could be affected if the investments incur a permanent decline
in value as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the
economic conditions in foreign countries. Williams attempts to mitigate these
risks by investing in different countries and business segments. Approximately
80 percent of the cost method investments are in Asian countries and 20 percent
in South American countries. Of the Asian investments, approximately 50 percent
are in countries whose currencies have recently suffered significant
devaluations and volatility. The ultimate duration and severity of the
conditions in Asia remains uncertain as does the long-term impact on Williams'
investments.
 
                                      F-13

 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 

 
                                      F-14

 
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
To the Stockholders of
The Williams Companies, Inc.
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The Williams
Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1997. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
The Williams Companies, Inc. at December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 
                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 
Tulsa, Oklahoma
February 13, 1998
 
                                      F-15

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 

 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-16

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
                                     ASSETS
 

 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-17

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
Note: Certain amounts have been restated to reflect the December 29, 1997,
      two-for-one stock split and distribution.
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-18

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-19

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  Nature of Operations
 
     Operations of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams) are located
principally in the United States and are organized into three operating groups
as follows: (1) Gas Pipelines, which is comprised of five interstate natural gas
pipelines located in the eastern, midsouth, Gulf Coast, midwest and northwest
regions; (2) Energy Services, which is comprised of natural gas gathering and
processing facilities in the Rocky Mountain, midwest and Gulf Coast regions,
energy trading and price-risk management activities throughout the United
States, a petroleum products pipeline and ethanol production/marketing
operations in the midwest region, and hydrocarbon exploration and production
activities in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions; and (3) Communications,
which includes network integration and management services; video and other
multimedia transmission services for the broadcast industry; business audio and
video conferencing services; and installation and maintenance of
customer-premise voice and data equipment. Additional information about these
businesses is contained throughout the following notes.
 
  Basis of Presentation
 
     Revenues and operating profit amounts previously reported as Williams
Natural Gas and Merchant Services are now reported as Central and Energy
Marketing & Trading, respectively.
 
     On April 30, 1997, Williams and Northern Telecom (Nortel) combined their
customer-premise equipment sales and service operations into a limited liability
company, Williams Communications Solutions, LLC (LLC), formerly WilTel
Communications, LLC (see Note 2). Communications' revenues and operating profit
amounts for 1997 include the operating results of the LLC beginning May 1, 1997.
 
     Revenues and operating profit amounts include the operating results of Kern
River Gas Transmission Company (Kern River) since the January 16, 1996,
acquisition by Williams of the remaining interest (see Note 2). Prior to this
acquisition, Williams accounted for its 50 percent ownership in Kern River using
the equity method of accounting, with its share of equity earnings recorded in
investing income.
 
     Revenues and operating profit amounts include the operating results of
Transco Energy Company (Transco Energy) since its January 18, 1995, acquisition
by Williams (see Note 2). The transportation operations from Transco Energy's
two interstate natural gas pipelines are reported separately within the Gas
Pipelines group. Transco Energy's gas gathering operations are included in Field
Services, and its gas marketing operations are included in Energy Marketing &
Trading.
 
  Principles of Consolidation
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Williams and
its majority-owned subsidiaries. Companies in which Williams and its
subsidiaries own 20 percent to 50 percent of the voting common stock, or
otherwise exercise sufficient influence over operating and financial policies of
the company, are accounted for under the equity method.
 
  Use of Estimates
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.
 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
     Cash and cash equivalents include demand and time deposits, certificates of
deposit and other marketable securities with maturities of three months or less
when acquired.
 
                                      F-20

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  Transportation and Exchange Gas Imbalances
 
     In the course of providing transportation services to customers, the
natural gas pipelines may receive different quantities of gas from shippers than
the quantities delivered on behalf of those shippers. Additionally, the
pipelines and other Williams subsidiaries transport gas on various pipeline
systems which may deliver different quantities of gas on their behalf than the
quantities of gas received. These transactions result in gas transportation and
exchange imbalance receivables and payables which are recovered or repaid in
cash or through the receipt or delivery of gas in the future. Settlement of
imbalances requires agreement between the pipelines and shippers as to
allocations of volumes to specific transportation contracts and timing of
delivery of gas based on operational conditions.
 
  Inventory Valuation
 
     Inventories are stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, except
for those held by Energy Marketing & Trading, which are primarily stated at
market. The cost of inventories is primarily determined using the average-cost
method, except for certain inventories held by Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line,
which are determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method.
 
  Property, Plant and Equipment
 
     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is provided
primarily on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. Gains or
losses from the ordinary sale or retirement of property, plant and equipment for
regulated pipeline subsidiaries are credited or charged to accumulated
depreciation; other gains or losses are recorded in net income.
 
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
     Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over fair value of assets of
businesses acquired, is amortized on a straight-line basis over periods not
exceeding 25 years. Other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line
basis over periods not exceeding 11 years. Accumulated amortization at December
31, 1997 and 1996 was $56 million and $31.8 million, respectively. Amortization
of intangible assets was $24.2 million, $9.6 million and $6.2 million in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
  Treasury Stock
 
     Treasury stock purchases are accounted for under the cost method whereby
the entire cost of the acquired stock is recorded as treasury stock. Gains and
losses on the subsequent reissuance of shares are credited or charged to capital
in excess of par value using the average-cost method.
 
  Revenue Recognition
 
     Revenues generally are recorded when services have been performed or
products have been delivered. Petroleum Services bills customers when products
are shipped and defers the estimated revenues for shipments in transit. The Gas
Pipelines recognize revenues based upon contractual terms and the related
transportation volumes through month-end. These pipelines are subject to Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulations and, accordingly, certain
revenues are subject to possible refunds pending final FERC orders. Williams
records rate refund accruals based on management's estimate of the expected
outcome of these proceedings. Communications' customer-premise equipment sales
and service business primarily uses the percentage of completion method of
recognizing revenues for services provided.
 
                                      F-21

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  Commodity Price-Risk Management Activities
 
     Energy Marketing & Trading has trading operations that enter into
energy-related derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity
instruments (forward contracts, futures contracts, option contracts and swap
agreements) to provide price-risk management services to its third-party
customers. This trading operation also has commodity inventories and enters into
short- and long-term energy-related purchase and sale commitments which involve
physical delivery of an energy commodity. These financial instruments, physical
inventories and commitments are valued at market and are recorded in commodity
trading assets, other assets and deferred charges, commodity trading liabilities
and other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The change in
unrealized market gains and losses is recognized in income currently and is
recorded as revenues in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Such market values
are subject to change in the near term and reflect management's best estimate of
market prices considering various factors including closing exchange and
over-the-counter quotations, liquidity of the market in which the contract is
transacted, the terms of the contract, credit considerations, time value and
volatility factors underlying the positions. Energy Marketing & Trading reports
its trading operations' physical sales transactions net of the related purchase
costs, consistent with market value accounting for such trading activities.
 
     Certain Energy Marketing & Trading's revenues were not considered to be
trading operations in 1996 and 1995 and, therefore, were not reported net of
related costs to purchase such items.
 
     Williams' operations also enter into energy-related derivative financial
instruments and derivative commodity instruments (primarily futures contracts,
option contracts and swap agreements) to hedge against market price fluctuations
of certain commodity inventories and sales and purchase commitments. Unrealized
and realized gains and losses on these hedge contracts are deferred and
recognized in income when the related hedged item is recognized and recorded
with the related hedged item. These contracts are initially and regularly
evaluated to determine that there is a high correlation between changes in the
market value of the hedge contract and market value of the hedged item.
 
  Interest-Rate Derivatives
 
     Williams enters into interest-rate swap agreements to modify the interest
characteristics of its long-term debt. These agreements are designated with all
or a portion of the principal balance and term of specific debt obligations.
These agreements involve the exchange of amounts based on a fixed-interest rate
for amounts based on variable interest rates without an exchange of the notional
amount upon which the payments are based. The difference to be paid or received
is accrued and recognized as an adjustment of interest expense. Gains and losses
from terminations of interest-rate swap agreements are deferred and amortized as
an adjustment to interest expense over the original term of the terminated swap
agreement.
 
     Kern River specifically has interest-rate swap agreements that are not
designated with long-term debt that are recorded in other liabilities at market
value. Changes in market value are recorded as adjustments to a regulatory asset
which is expected to be recovered in transportation rates.
 
     Williams enters into interest-rate forward contracts to lock-in underlying
treasury rates on anticipated long-term debt issuances. The settlement amounts
upon termination of the contracts are deferred and amortized as an adjustment to
interest expense of the issued long-term debt over the term of the settled
forward contract.
 
  Capitalization of Interest
 
     Williams capitalizes interest on major projects during construction.
Interest is capitalized on borrowed funds and, where regulation by the FERC
exists, on internally generated funds. The rates used by regulated companies are
calculated in accordance with FERC rules. Rates used by unregulated companies
approximate
 
                                      F-22

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the average interest rate on related debt. Interest capitalized on internally
generated funds is included in non-operating other income (expense) -- net.
 
  Employee Stock-Based Awards
 
     Employee stock-based awards are accounted for under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and related
interpretations. Williams' fixed plan common stock options do not result in
compensation expense, because the exercise price of the stock options equals the
market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.
 
  Income Taxes
 
     Williams includes the operations of its subsidiaries in its consolidated
federal income tax return. Deferred income taxes are computed using the
liability method and are provided on all temporary differences between the
financial basis and the tax basis of Williams' assets and liabilities.
 
  Earnings Per Share
 
     Basic earnings per share are based on the sum of the average number of
common shares outstanding and issuable restricted and deferred shares. Diluted
earnings per share assumes issuance of common stock from dilutive stock options
and conversion of the $3.50 cumulative convertible preferred stock into common
stock effective May 1, 1995. The earnings per share amounts and number of shares
for 1996 and 1995 have been restated to reflect the effect of the two-for-one
stock split and distribution (see Note 15) and the adoption of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 128, "Earnings Per Share" (see Note
9).
 
  New Accounting Standards
 
     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued two new
accounting standards, SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," and SFAS
No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."
Both standards, effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997,
are disclosure-oriented standards. Therefore, neither standard will affect
Williams' reported consolidated net income or cash flows.
 
NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS
 
  Nortel
 
     On April 30, 1997, Williams and Nortel combined their customer-premise
equipment sales and service operations into a limited liability company,
Williams Communications Solutions, LLC. In addition, Williams paid $68 million
to Nortel. Williams has accounted for its 70 percent interest in the operations
that Nortel contributed to the LLC as a purchase business combination, and
beginning May 1, 1997, has included the results of operations of the acquired
company in Williams' Consolidated Statement of Income. Accordingly, the acquired
assets and liabilities, including $168 million in accounts receivable, $68
million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities and $150 million in debt
obligations, have been recorded based on an allocation of the purchase price,
with substantially all of the cost in excess of historical carrying values
allocated to goodwill.
 
     Williams recorded the 30 percent reduction in its operations contributed to
the LLC as a sale to the minority shareholders of the LLC. Williams recognized a
gain of $44.5 million based on the excess of the fair value over the net book
value (approximately $71 million) of its operations conveyed to the LLC minority
interest. Income taxes were not provided on the gain, because the transaction
did not affect the difference between the financial and tax bases of
identifiable assets and liabilities.
 
                                      F-23

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     If the transaction had occurred on January 1, 1996, Williams' unaudited pro
forma revenues for the years ended 1997 and 1996 would have been $4,658 million
and $4,268 million, respectively. The pro forma effect of the transaction on
Williams' net income is not significant. Pro forma financial information is not
necessarily indicative of results of operations that would have occurred if the
transaction had occurred on January 1, 1996, or of future results of operations
of the combined companies.
 
  Kern River
 
     On January 16, 1996, Williams acquired the remaining interest in Kern River
for $206 million in cash. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase, and
the acquired assets and liabilities have been recorded based on an allocation of
the purchase price, with substantially all of the cost in excess of Kern River's
historical carrying value allocated to property, plant and equipment.
 
  Transco
 
     On January 18, 1995, Williams acquired 60 percent of Transco Energy's
outstanding common stock in a cash tender offer for $430.5 million. Williams
acquired the remaining 40 percent of Transco Energy's outstanding common stock
on May 1, 1995, through a merger by exchanging the remaining Transco Energy
common stock for approximately 31.2 million shares of Williams common stock
valued at $334 million. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase with 60
percent of Transco Energy's results of operations included in Williams'
Consolidated Statement of Income for the period January 18, 1995, through April
30, 1995, and 100 percent included beginning May 1, 1995. The purchase price,
including transaction fees and other related costs, was approximately $800
million, excluding $2.3 billion in preferred stock and debt obligations of
Transco Energy.
 
NOTE 3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     On January 5, 1995, Williams sold its network services operations to LDDS
Communications, Inc. for $2.5 billion in cash. The sale yielded a gain of $1
billion (net of income taxes of approximately $732 million) which is reported as
income from discontinued operations.
 
NOTE 4. REVENUES AND OPERATING PROFIT
 
     Revenues and operating profit of Gas Pipelines and Energy Services for the
years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-24

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
NOTE 5. INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 
     Investing income for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, is
as follows:
 

 
     Dividends and distributions received from companies carried on an equity
basis were $7 million in 1997 and 1996, and $44 million in 1995.
 
     At December 31, 1997, certain equity investments, with a carrying value of
$46 million, have a market value of $175 million.
 
NOTE 6. ASSET SALES AND WRITE-OFFS
 
     In the fourth quarter of 1997, Communications incurred charges totaling
$49.8 million related to the decision to sell the learning content business, and
the write-down of assets and the development costs associated with certain
advanced applications.
 
     In 1996, Williams recognized a pre-tax gain of $15.7 million from the sale
of certain communication rights for approximately $38 million.
 
                                      F-25

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     In 1995, the development of a commercial coal gasification venture in
south-central Wyoming was canceled, resulting in a $41.4 million pre-tax charge.
 
     In 1995, Williams sold its 15 percent interest in Texasgulf Inc. for
approximately $124 million in cash, which resulted in an after-tax gain of
approximately $16 million because of previously unrecognized tax benefits
included in the provision for income taxes.
 
NOTE 7. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
     The provision (credit) for income taxes from continuing operations
includes:
 

 
     Reconciliations from the provision for income taxes from continuing
operations at the statutory rate to the provision for income taxes are as
follows:
 

 
                                      F-26

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Significant components of deferred tax liabilities and assets as of
December 31 are as follows:
 

 
- - ---------------
 
* Reclassified to conform to current classifications.
 
     Cash payments for income taxes (net of refunds) were $48 million, $395
million and $339 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
NOTE 8. EXTRAORDINARY LOSS
 
     In September 1997, Williams initiated a restructuring of its debt portfolio
(see Note 14). During 1997, Williams paid approximately $1.4 billion to redeem
approximately $1.3 billion of debt with stated interest rates in excess of 8.8
percent, resulting in an extraordinary loss of $79.1 million (net of a $46.6
million benefit for income taxes). In addition, approximately $30 million of
costs to redeem have been deferred as a regulatory asset for rate recovery.
 
                                      F-27

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 9. EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
     Basic and diluted earnings per common share are computed for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, as follows:
 

 
     Options to purchase approximately 3.1 million shares of common stock at a
weighted-average exercise price of $27.93 were outstanding at December 31, 1997,
but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share.
Inclusion of these shares would be antidilutive, as the exercise prices of the
options exceed the average market price of the common shares.
 
NOTE 10. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
  Pensions
 
     Williams maintains non-contributory defined-benefit pension plans covering
substantially all of its employees. Benefits are based on years of service and
average final compensation. Pension costs are funded to satisfy minimum
requirements prescribed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
 
     Net pension expense consists of the following:
 

 
                                      F-28

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Net pension expense increased in 1996 from 1995 as a result of a decrease
in the discount rate from 8 1/2 percent to 7 1/4 percent and an increase in the
number of plan participants.
 
     The following table presents the funded status of the plans:
 

 
     The discount rate used to measure the present value of benefit obligations
is 7 1/4 percent (7 1/2 percent in 1996); the assumed rate of increase in future
compensation levels is 5 percent; and the expected long-term rate of return on
assets is 10 percent. Plan assets consist primarily of commingled funds and
assets held in a master trust. The master trust is comprised primarily of
domestic and foreign common and preferred stocks, corporate bonds, United States
government securities and commercial paper.
 
     Subsequent to December 31, 1997, Williams offered an early retirement
incentive program to a certain group of employees. This program will not have a
material impact on the funded status of the plans or Williams' financial
position.
 
  Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions
 
     Williams sponsors health care plans that provide postretirement medical
benefits to retired Williams employees who were employed full time, hired prior
to January 1, 1992 (January 1, 1996, for Transco Energy employees) and have met
certain other requirements.
 
     The plans provide for retiree contributions and contain other cost-sharing
features such as deductibles and coinsurance. The accounting for the plans
anticipates future cost-sharing changes to the written plans that are consistent
with Williams' expressed intent to increase the retiree contribution rate
annually, generally in line with health care cost increases, except for certain
retirees whose premiums are fixed. A portion of the cost has been funded in
trusts by Williams' FERC-regulated natural gas pipeline subsidiaries to the
extent recovery from customers can be achieved. Plan assets consist of assets
held in two master trusts and money market funds. One of the master trusts was
previously described, and the other consists primarily of domestic and foreign
common stocks, government bonds and commercial paper.
 
                                      F-29

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Net postretirement benefit expense consists of the following:
 

 
     The following table presents the funded status of the plans:
 

 
     The amount of postretirement benefit costs deferred as a regulatory asset
at December 31, 1997 and 1996, is $107 million and $118 million, respectively,
and is expected to be recovered through rates over approximately 15 years.
 
     The discount rate used to measure the present value of benefit obligations
is 7 1/4 percent (7 1/2 percent in 1996). The expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets is 10 percent (6 percent after taxes). The annual assumed rate of
increase in the health care cost trend rate for 1998 is 8 1/2 to 9 1/2 percent,
systematically decreasing to 5 percent by 2006. The health care cost trend rate
assumption has a significant effect on the amounts reported. Increasing the
assumed health care cost trend rate by 1 percent in each year would increase the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of postretirement benefit
expense for the year ended December 31, 1997, by $5 million and the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1997, by $46 million.
 
  Other
 
     Williams maintains various defined-contribution plans covering
substantially all employees. Company contributions are based on employees'
compensation and, in part, match employee contributions. Company contributions
are invested primarily in Williams common stock. Williams' contributions to
these plans were $29 million in 1997, $23 million in 1996 and $19 million in
1995.
 
                                      F-30

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 11. INVENTORIES
 

 
     If inventories valued on the LIFO method at December 31, 1997, were valued
at current average cost, the amount would increase by approximately $13 million.
Inventories valued on the LIFO method at December 31, 1996, approximate current
average cost.
 
NOTE 12. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 

 
     Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and
equipment are approximately $530 million at December 31, 1997.
 
                                      F-31

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 13. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 
     Under Williams' cash-management system, certain subsidiaries' cash accounts
reflect credit balances to the extent checks written have not been presented for
payment. The amounts of these credit balances included in accounts payable are
$92 million at December 31, 1997, and $95 million at December 31, 1996.
 

 
NOTE 14. DEBT, LEASES AND BANKING ARRANGEMENTS
 
  Notes Payable
 
     During 1997, Williams Holdings of Delaware, Inc. (Williams Holdings)
entered into a commercial paper program backed by new short-term bank-credit
facilities totaling $650 million. At December 31, 1997, $645 million of
commercial paper was outstanding under the program. In addition, Williams has
entered into various other short-term credit agreements with amounts outstanding
totaling $48 million and $269.5 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. The weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding short-term
borrowings at December 31, 1997 and 1996, was 6.56 percent and 7.85 percent,
respectively.
 
                                      F-32

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  Debt
 

 
- - ---------------
 
* At December 31, 1997, including the effects of interest-rate swaps.
 
                                      F-33

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     In September 1997, Williams initiated a restructuring of its debt
portfolio. As of December 31, 1997, Williams has redeemed approximately $1.3
billion of debt with stated interest rates in excess of 8.8 percent. In January
1998, Williams redeemed $40 million of additional debt obligations. The
restructuring was temporarily financed with the combination of short-term bank
agreements, commercial paper and Williams' existing bank-credit agreement, until
new long-term debt securities were issued. During the fourth quarter of 1997,
Williams issued $550 million of new long-term debt obligations. In January 1998,
Williams issued approximately $700 million in additional debt obligations.
 
     In July 1997, Williams entered into a new $1 billion bank-credit agreement,
replacing the previous agreement. Under the new credit agreement, Northwest
Pipeline, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas Transmission, and Williams
Communications Solutions, LLC have access to various amounts of the facility,
while Williams (parent) and Williams Holdings have access to all unborrowed
amounts. Interest rates vary with current market conditions.
 
     For financial statement reporting purposes at December 31, 1997, $560
million in notes payable and current debt obligations, primarily related to the
restructuring noted above, have been classified as non-current obligations based
on Williams' intent and ability to refinance on a long-term basis. Williams'
subsequent issuance of $700 million of long-term debt obligations in January
1998 is sufficient to complete these refinancings.
 
     Interest-rate swaps with a notional value of $450 million are currently
being utilized to convert certain fixed rate debt obligations resulting in an
effective weighted-average floating rate of 5.24 percent at December 31, 1997.
Interest-rate swaps with a notional value of $130 million are currently being
utilized to convert certain variable rate debt obligations resulting in an
effective weighted-average fixed rate of 7.78 percent at December 31, 1997.
 
     Certain interest-rate swap agreements relating to Kern River which preceded
the January 1996 purchase of Kern River by Williams and the subsequent Kern
River debt refinancing, remain outstanding. In 1996, Kern River entered into
additional interest-rate swap agreements to manage the exposure from the
original interest-rate swap agreements. As described in Note 1, these
interest-rate swap agreements are not designated with the Kern River debt, but
when combined with interest on the debt obligations, Kern River's effective
interest rate is 8.5 percent.
 
     Aggregate minimum maturities and sinking-fund requirements, excluding lease
payments and considering the reclassification of current obligations as
previously described, for each of the next five years are as follows:
 

 
     Cash payments for interest (net of amounts capitalized) are as follows:
1997 -- $396 million; 1996 -- $347 million; and 1995 -- $266 million.
 
  Leases
 
     Future minimum annual rentals under non-cancelable operating leases are
$113 million in 1998, $99 million in 1999, $84 million in 2000, $59 million in
2001, $55 million in 2002 and $176 million thereafter.
 
     Total rent expense was $126 million in 1997 and $78 million in 1996 and
1995.
 
                                      F-34

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 15. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     On November 20, 1997, the board of directors of Williams declared a
two-for-one common stock split and distribution; 160.1 million shares were
issued on December 29, 1997. All references in the financial statements and
notes to the number of common shares outstanding and per-share amounts reflect
the effect of the split.
 
     In the third quarter of 1996, the board of directors authorized the
open-market purchase of up to $800 million of Williams common stock. During
1996, 1.9 million shares were purchased at a total cost of approximately $31
million. No shares were purchased during 1997. In the fourth quarter of 1997,
Williams' board of directors terminated the repurchase program.
 
     In connection with the 1995 merger with Transco Energy, Williams exchanged
all of Transco Energy's outstanding $3.50 cumulative convertible preferred stock
for 2.5 million shares of Williams' $3.50 cumulative convertible preferred
stock. These shares are redeemable by Williams beginning in November 1999, at an
initial price of $51.40 per share. Each share of $3.50 preferred stock is
convertible at the option of the holder into 4.6875 shares of Williams common
stock. Dividends per share of $3.50 were recorded in 1997 and 1996, and $2.33 in
1995.
 
     During 1995, Williams exchanged 2.8 million shares of its $2.21 cumulative
preferred stock with a carrying value of $69 million for 9.6 percent debentures
with a fair value of $72.5 million. The difference in the fair value of the new
securities and the carrying value of the preferred stock exchanged was recorded
as a decrease in capital in excess of par value. This amount did not impact net
income, but is included in preferred stock dividends on the Consolidated
Statement of Income and in the computation of earnings per share. The remaining
shares of $2.21 cumulative preferred stock were redeemed by Williams at par
($25) in September 1997 for a total of $18.5 million. Dividends per share of
$1.47 were recorded in 1997, and $2.21 in 1996 and 1995.
 
     In 1996, the board of directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan (the
Rights Plan). Under the Rights Plan, each outstanding share of common stock has
one-third of a preferred stock purchase right attached. Under certain
conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase, at an exercise price of
$140 (subject to adjustment), one two-hundredth of a share of junior
participating preferred stock. The rights may be exercised only if an Acquiring
Person acquires (or obtains the right to acquire) 15 percent or more of Williams
common stock; or commences an offer for 15 percent or more of Williams common
stock; or the board of directors determines an Adverse Person has become the
owner of 10 percent or more of Williams common stock. The rights, which do not
have voting rights, expire in 2006 and may be redeemed at a price of $.01 per
right prior to their expiration, or within a specified period of time after the
occurrence of certain events. In the event a person becomes the owner of more
than 15 percent of Williams common stock or the board of directors determines
that a person is an Adverse Person, each holder of a right (except an Acquiring
Person or an Adverse Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise,
common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.
In the event Williams is engaged in a merger, business combination or 50 percent
or more of Williams' assets, cash flow or earnings power is sold or transferred,
each holder of a right (except an Acquiring Person or an Adverse Person) shall
have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company
having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.
 
     Williams has several plans providing for common-stock-based awards to
employees and to non-employee directors. The plans permit the granting of
various types of awards including, but not limited to, stock options,
stock-appreciation rights, restricted stock and deferred stock. Awards may be
granted for no consideration other than prior and future services. The purchase
price per share for stock options and the grant price for stock-appreciation
rights may not be less than the market price of the underlying stock on the date
of grant. Stock options generally become exercisable after five years, subject
to accelerated vesting if certain future stock prices are achieved. Stock
options expire 10 years after grant. At December 31, 1997, 46.7 million shares
 
                                      F-35

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
of common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to existing and future stock
awards, of which 21.4 million shares were available for future grants (15.6
million at December 31, 1996).
 
     The following summary reflects stock option activity and related
information for 1997 and 1996:
 

 
     The following summary provides information about stock options outstanding
and exercisable at December 31, 1997:
 

 
     The fair value of the stock options was estimated at the date of grant
using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions: expected life of the stock options of five years; volatility of the
expected market price of Williams common stock of 23 percent (24 percent in 1996
and 1995); risk-free interest rate of 6.1 percent (6.2 percent in 1996 and
1995); and a dividend yield of 2.4 percent (3 percent in 1996 and 1995).
 
     Pro forma net income and earnings per share, assuming Williams had applied
the fair-value method of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" in measuring compensation cost beginning with 1995
employee stock-based awards, are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-36

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Pro forma amounts for 1997 include the remaining total compensation expense
from the awards made in 1996, as these awards fully vested in 1997 as a result
of the accelerated vesting provisions. Pro forma amounts for 1995 include total
compensation expense from the awards made in 1995, as these awards fully vested
in 1995 as a result of the accelerated vesting provisions. Since compensation
expense from stock options is recognized over the future years' vesting period,
and additional awards generally are made each year, pro forma amounts may not be
representative of future years' amounts.
 
NOTE 16. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  Fair-Value Methods
 
     The following methods and assumptions were used by Williams in estimating
its fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:
 
     Cash and cash equivalents and notes payable: The carrying amounts reported
in the balance sheet approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of
these instruments.
 
     Notes and other non-current receivables: For those notes with interest
rates approximating market or maturities of less than three years, fair value is
estimated to approximate historically recorded amounts.
 
     Investments -- cost: Fair value is estimated to approximate historically
recorded amounts as the operations underlying these investments are in their
initial phases.
 
     Long-term debt: The fair value of Williams' long-term debt is valued using
indicative year-end traded bond market prices for publicly traded issues, while
private debt is valued based on the prices of similar securities with similar
terms and credit ratings. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, 57 percent and 69
percent, respectively, of Williams' long-term debt was publicly traded. Williams
used the expertise of an outside investment banking firm to estimate the fair
value of long-term debt.
 
     Interest-rate swaps: Fair value is determined by discounting estimated
future cash flows using forward interest rates derived from the year-end yield
curve. Fair value was calculated by the financial institutions that are the
counterparties to the swaps.
 
     Interest-rate locks: Fair value is determined using year-end traded market
prices for the referenced U.S. Treasury securities underlying the contracts.
Fair value was calculated by the financial institutions that are parties to the
locks.
 
     Energy-related trading and hedging: Includes forwards, options, swaps and
purchase and sales commitments. Fair value reflects management's best estimate
of market prices considering various factors including closing exchange and
over-the-counter quotations, liquidity of the market in which the contract is
transacted, the terms of the contract, credit considerations, time value and
volatility factors underlying the positions.
 
                                      F-37

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  Carrying amounts and fair values of Williams' financial instruments
 

 
     The preceding asset and liability amounts for energy-related hedging
represent unrealized gains or losses and do not include the related deferred
amounts.
 
     The 1997 average fair value of the energy-related trading assets and
liabilities is $258 million and $345 million, respectively. The 1996 average
fair value of the energy-related trading assets and liabilities is $196 million
and $322 million, respectively.
 
     Williams has recorded liabilities of $21 million and $18 million at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, for certain guarantees that represent
the estimated fair value of these financial instruments.
 
  Off-Balance-Sheet Credit and Market Risk
 
     Williams is a participant in the following transactions and arrangements
that involve financial instruments that have off-balance-sheet risk of
accounting loss. It is not practicable to estimate the fair value of these off-
balance-sheet financial instruments because of their unusual nature and unique
characteristics.
 
     In 1997, Williams entered into agreements to sell, on an ongoing basis,
certain of their accounts receivables. Williams also sold certain receivables in
1996 under another revolving receivable sales program. At December 31, 1997 and
1996, $343 million and $152 million have been sold, respectively.
 
     In connection with the sale of Williams' network services operations,
Williams has been indemnified by LDDS against any losses related to retained
guarantees of $135 million and $158 million at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively, for lease rental obligations.
 
     Williams has issued other guarantees and letters of credit with
off-balance-sheet risk that total approximately $56 million and $10 million at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Williams believes it will not have to
perform under these agreements because the likelihood of default by the primary
party is remote and/or because of certain indemnifications received from other
third parties.
 
  Commodity Price-Risk Management Services
 
     Williams, through Energy Marketing & Trading, provides price-risk
management services associated with the energy industry to its customers. These
services are provided through a variety of financial instruments, including
forward contracts, futures contracts, option contracts, swap agreements and
purchase and sale
 
                                      F-38

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
commitments. See Note 1 for a description of the accounting for these trading
activities. The net gain from trading activities was $125.8 million, $99.2
million and $65.8 million in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
     Energy Marketing & Trading enters into forward contracts and purchase and
sale commitments which involve physical delivery of an energy commodity. Prices
under these contracts are both fixed and variable. Swap agreements call for
Energy Marketing & Trading to make payments to (or receive payments from)
counterparties based upon the differential between a fixed and variable price or
variable prices for different locations. The variable prices are generally based
on either industry pricing publications or exchange quotations. Energy Marketing
& Trading buys and sells option contracts which give the buyer the right to
exercise the options and receive the difference between a predetermined strike
price and a market price at the date of exercise. The market prices used for
option contracts are generally exchange quotations. Energy Marketing & Trading
also enters into futures contracts, which are commitments to either purchase or
sell a commodity at a future date for a specified price and are generally
settled in cash, but may be settled through delivery of the underlying
commodity. The market prices for futures contracts are based on exchange
quotations.
 
     Energy Marketing & Trading is subject to market risk from changes in energy
commodity market prices, the portfolio position of its financial instruments and
physical commitments, the liquidity of the market in which the contract is
transacted, and changes in interest rates and credit risk.
 
     Energy Marketing & Trading manages market risk through established trading
policy guidelines, which are monitored on an ongoing basis. Energy Marketing &
Trading attempts to minimize credit-risk exposure to trading counterparties and
brokers through formal credit policies and monitoring procedures. In the normal
course of business, collateral is not required for financial instruments with
credit risk.
 
     The notional quantities for trading activities at December 31 are as
follows:
 

 
     The net cash flow requirement related to these contracts at December 31,
1997 and 1996, was $92 million and $117 million, respectively. At December 31,
1997, the cash flow requirements extend primarily through 2007.
 
  Concentration of Credit Risk
 
     Williams' cash equivalents consist of high quality securities placed with
various major financial institutions with high credit ratings. Williams'
investment policy limits its credit exposure to any one financial institution.
 
     At December 31, 1997 and 1996, approximately 57 percent and 69 percent,
respectively, of receivables are for the sale or transportation of natural gas
and related products or services. Approximately 33 percent and 23 percent of
receivables at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively, are for communications
and related services. Natural gas customers include pipelines, distribution
companies, producers, gas marketers and industrial users primarily located in
the eastern, northwestern and midwestern United States. Communica-
 
                                      F-39

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
tions' customers include numerous corporations. As a general policy, collateral
is not required for receivables, but customers' financial condition and credit
worthiness are evaluated regularly.
 
NOTE 17. OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
Intercompany revenues (at prices that generally apply to sales to unaffiliated
parties) are as follows:
 

 
* Energy Marketing & Trading intercompany cost of sales, which are netted in
  revenues consistent with market-value accounting, exceed intercompany revenues
  in 1997.
 
Information for business segments is as follows:
 

 
                                      F-40

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 
     Identifiable assets are gross assets used by a business segment, including
an allocated portion of assets used jointly by more than one business segment.
Items such as investments are considered to be general corporate assets rather
than identifiable assets of individual business segments.
 
NOTE 18. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS
 
  Rate and regulatory matters and related litigation
 
     Williams' interstate pipeline subsidiaries, including Williams Pipe Line,
have various regulatory proceedings pending. As a result of rulings in certain
of these proceedings, a portion of the revenues of these subsidiaries has been
collected subject to refund. As to Williams Pipe Line, revenues collected
subject to refund were $328 million at December 31, 1997; it is not expected
that the amount of any refunds ordered would be significant. Accordingly, no
portion of these revenues has been reserved for refund. As to the other
pipelines, $337 million of revenues has been reserved for potential refund as of
December 31, 1997.
 
     In 1997, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued orders
addressing, among other things, the authorized rates of return for three of
Williams' interstate natural gas pipeline subsidiaries. All of
 
                                      F-41

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the orders involve rate cases that became effective between 1993 and 1995 and,
in each instance, these cases have been superseded by more recently filed rate
cases. In the three orders, the FERC continued its practice of utilizing a
methodology for calculating rates of return that incorporates a long-term growth
rate component. However, the long-term growth rate component used by the FERC is
now a projection of U.S. gross domestic product growth rates. Generally,
calculating rates of return utilizing a methodology which includes a long-term
growth rate component results in rates of return that are lower than they would
be if the long-term growth rate component were not included in the methodology.
Each of the three pipeline subsidiaries challenged its respective FERC order in
an effort to have the FERC change its rate of return methodology with respect to
these and other rate cases. In October 1997, the FERC voted not to reconsider an
order issued in one of the three pipeline proceedings, but convened a conference
on January 30, 1998, to consider, on an industry-wide basis, issues with respect
to pipeline rates of return.
 
     In 1992, the FERC issued Order 636, Order 636-A and Order 636-B. These
orders, which were challenged in various respects by various parties in
proceedings ruled on by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, require
interstate gas pipeline companies to change the manner in which they provide
services. Williams' gas pipelines subsidiaries implemented restructurings in
1993. Certain aspects of three of its pipeline companies' restructurings are
under appeal.
 
     On July 16, 1996, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued an
order which in part affirmed and in part remanded Order 636. However, the court
stated that Order 636 would remain in effect until FERC issued a final order on
remand after considering the remanded issues. With the issuance of this
decision, the stay on the appeals of individual pipeline's restructuring cases
was lifted. The only appeal challenging Northwest Pipeline's restructuring has
been dismissed. On February 27, 1997, the FERC issued Order No. 636-C which
dealt with the six issues remanded by the D.C. Circuit. In that order, the FERC
reaffirmed that pipelines should be exempt from sharing gas supply realignment
costs. Requests for rehearing have been filed for the order.
 
  Contract reformations and gas purchase deficiencies
 
     As a result of FERC Order 636, which requires interstate gas pipelines to
change the way they do business, each of the natural gas pipeline subsidiaries
has undertaken the reformation or termination of its respective gas supply
contracts. None of the pipelines has any significant pending supplier
take-or-pay, ratable take or minimum take claims.
 
     Current FERC policy associated with Orders 436 and 500 requires interstate
gas pipelines to absorb some of the cost of reforming gas supply contracts
before allowing any recovery through direct bill or surcharges to transportation
as well as sales commodity rates. Under Orders 636, 636-A, 636-B and 636-C,
costs incurred to comply with these rules are permitted to be recovered in full,
although a percentage of such costs must be allocated to interruptible
transportation service.
 
     Pursuant to a stipulation and agreement approved by the FERC, Williams Gas
Pipelines Central (Central) has made 11 filings to direct bill take-or-pay and
gas supply realignment costs. The total amount approved for direct billing, net
of certain amounts collected subject to refunds, is $67 million. An intervenor
has filed protests seeking to have the FERC review the prudence and eligibility
of approximately $40 million of costs covered by these filings. On July 31,
1996, the administrative law judge issued an initial decision rejecting the
intervenor's prudency challenge. On September 30, 1997, the FERC, by a
two-to-one vote, reversed the administrative law judge and determined that three
life-of-lease producer contracts were imprudently entered into in 1982. Central
has filed for rehearing, and management plans to vigorously defend the prudency
of these contracts. An intervenor has also filed a protest seeking to have the
FERC decide whether non-settlement costs are eligible for recovery under Order
No. 636. In January 1997, the FERC held that none of the non-settlement costs
could be recovered by Central if these costs were not eligible for recovery
under Order No. 636. This order was affirmed on rehearing in April 1997. An
initial decision from
                                      F-42

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the administrative law judge is expected in the first quarter of 1998. If the
FERC's final ruling on eligibility is unfavorable, Central will appeal these
orders to the courts. Central will make additional filings under the applicable
FERC orders to recover such additional costs as may be incurred in the future.
 
     Because of the uncertainties pertaining to the outcome of these issues
currently pending at the FERC and the status of settlement negotiation and
various other factors, Central cannot reasonably estimate the costs that may be
incurred nor the related amounts that could be recovered from customers. Central
is actively pursuing negotiations with the producers to resolve all outstanding
obligations under the contracts. Based on the terms of what Central believes
would be a reasonable settlement, $94 million has been accrued as a liability at
December 31, 1997, including a $5 million fourth-quarter 1997 charge to expense
for additional absorption of future costs. Central also has an $88 million
regulatory asset at December 31, 1997, for estimated recovery of future costs
from customers. Central cannot predict the final outcome of the FERC's rulings
on contract prudency and cost recovery under Order No. 636 and is unable to
determine the ultimate liability and loss, if any, at this time. If Central does
not prevail in these FERC proceedings or any subsequent appeals, and if Central
is able to reach a settlement with the producers consistent with the $94 million
accrued liability, the loss could be the total of the regulatory asset and the
$40 million of protested assets. Central continues to believe that it entered
into the gas purchase contracts in a prudent manner under FERC rules in place at
the time. Central also believes that the future recovery of these costs would be
in accordance with the terms of Order No. 636.
 
     In September 1995, Texas Gas received FERC approval of a settlement
regarding Texas Gas' recovery of gas supply realignment costs. Through December
31, 1997, Texas Gas has paid approximately $76 million and expects to pay no
more than $80 million for gas supply realignment costs, primarily as a result of
contract terminations. Texas Gas has recovered approximately $66 million, plus
interest, in gas supply realignment costs.
 
     The foregoing accruals are in accordance with Williams' accounting policies
regarding the establishment of such accruals which take into consideration
estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk-weighted, as well as costs and
other risks associated with the difference between the time costs are incurred
and the time such costs are recovered from customers. The estimated portion of
such costs recoverable from customers is deferred or recorded as a regulatory
asset based on an estimate of expected recovery of the amounts allowed by FERC
policy. While Williams believes that these accruals are adequate and the
associated regulatory assets are appropriate, costs actually incurred and
amounts actually recovered from customers will depend upon the outcome of
various court and FERC proceedings, the success of settlement negotiations and
various other factors, not all of which are presently foreseeable.
 
  Environmental matters
 
     Since 1989, Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line have had studies
under way to test certain of their facilities for the presence of toxic and
hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation may be
necessary. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line has responded to data requests
regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites. The costs of any
such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation. At December 31,
1997, these subsidiaries had reserves totaling approximately $28 million for
these costs.
 
     Certain Williams subsidiaries, including Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, have been identified as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at
various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these
subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other
hazardous materials removal or remediation obligations under environmental laws.
Although no assurances can be given, Williams does not believe that the PRP
status of these subsidiaries will have a material adverse effect on its
financial position, results of operations or net cash flows.
 
                                      F-43

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have identified
polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in air compressor systems, soils
and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have also been involved in negotiations with
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies to develop
screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In addition, negotiations with certain
environmental authorities and other programs concerning investigative and
remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at certain gas
metering sites have been commenced by Central, Texas Gas and Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line. As of December 31, 1997, Central had recorded a liability for
approximately $17 million, representing the current estimate of future
environmental cleanup costs to be incurred over the next six to ten years. The
Field Services unit of Energy Services had recorded an aggregate liability of
approximately $12 million, representing the current estimate of its future
environmental and remediation costs, including approximately $5 million relating
to former Central facilities. Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
likewise had recorded liabilities for these costs which are included in the $28
million reserve mentioned above. Actual costs incurred will depend on the actual
number of contaminated sites identified, the actual amount and extent of
contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and
other governmental authorities and other factors. Texas Gas, Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line and Central have deferred these costs pending recovery as incurred
through future rates and other means.
 
     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company,
Williams agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs
resulting from certain conditions at specified locations, to the extent such
costs exceed a specified amount. Such costs have exceeded this amount. At
December 31, 1997, Williams had approximately $11 million accrued for such
excess costs. The actual costs incurred will depend on the actual amount and
extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the
EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors.
 
     A lawsuit was filed in May 1993 in a state court in Colorado in which
certain claims have been made against various defendants, including Northwest
Pipeline, contending that gas exploration and development activities in portions
of the San Juan Basin have caused air, water and other contamination. The
plaintiffs in the case sought certification of a plaintiff class. In June 1994,
the lawsuit was dismissed for failure to join an indispensable party over which
the state court had no jurisdiction. The Colorado court of appeals has affirmed
the dismissal and remanded the case to Colorado district court for action
consistent with the appeals court's decision. Since June 1994, eight individual
lawsuits have been filed against Northwest Pipeline and others in U.S. district
court in Colorado, making essentially the same claims. The district court has
stayed all of the cases involving Northwest Pipeline until the plaintiffs
exhaust their remedies before the Southern Ute Indian Tribal Court. Some
plaintiffs filed cases in the Tribal court, but none named Northwest Pipeline as
a defendant.
 
  Other legal matters
 
     In 1991, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe (the Tribe) filed a lawsuit against
Williams Production Company (Williams Production), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Williams, and other gas producers in the San Juan Basin area, alleging that
certain coal strata were reserved by the United States for the benefit of the
Tribe and that the extraction of coal-seam gas from the coal strata was
wrongful. The Tribe seeks compensation for the value of the coal-seam gas. The
Tribe also seeks an order transferring to the Tribe ownership of all of the
defendants' equipment and facilities utilized in the extraction of the coal-seam
gas. In September 1994, the court granted summary judgment in favor of the
defendants and the Tribe lodged an interlocutory appeal with the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit. Williams Production agreed to indemnify the
Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (Trust) against any losses that may arise
in respect of certain properties subject to the lawsuit. In addition, if the
Tribe is successful in showing that Williams Production has no rights in the
coal-seam gas, Williams Production has agreed to pay to the Trust for
distribution to then-current unitholders, an amount representing a return of a
portion of the original purchase price paid for the units. On July 16, 1997,
                                      F-44

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed the decision of the
district court, held that the Tribe owns the coal-seam gas produced from certain
coal strata on fee lands within the exterior boundaries of the Tribe's
reservation, and remanded the case to the district court for further
proceedings. On September 16, 1997, Amoco Production Company, the class
representative for the defendant class (of which Williams Production is a part),
filed its motion for rehearing en banc before the Court of Appeals. On December
4, 1997, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed to rehear the appeal.
 
     In connection with agreements to resolve take-or-pay and other contract
claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and
Texas Gas each entered into certain settlements with producers which may require
the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties which the
producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. In one of the
two remaining cases, a jury verdict found that Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
was required to pay to a producer damages of $23.3 million including $3.8
million in attorneys' fees. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line is considering an
appeal. In the other remaining case, a producer has asserted damages, including
interest calculated through December 31, 1996, of approximately $6 million.
 
     Producers have received and may receive other demands, which could result
in additional claims. Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among other
things, the specific lease provisions between the producer and the lessor and
the terms of the settlement between the producer and either Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line or Texas Gas. Texas Gas may file to recover 75 percent of any such
additional amounts it may be required to pay pursuant to indemnities for
royalties under the provisions of Order 528.
 
     In November 1994, Continental Energy Associates Limited Partnership (the
Partnership) filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code
with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania. The Partnership
owned a cogeneration facility in Hazleton, Pennsylvania (the Facility). Hazleton
Fuel Management Company (HFMC), a subsidiary of Transco Energy, formerly
supplied natural gas and fuel oil to the Facility. Pursuant to a court-approved
Plan of Reorganization, all litigation involving HFMC has been fully settled,
and HFMC received $6.3 million from the bankruptcy estate, leaving it with
approximately $14 million of outstanding receivables, all of which have been
fully reserved.
 
     In addition to the foregoing, various other proceedings are pending against
Williams or its subsidiaries which are incidental to their operations.
 
  Summary
 
     While no assurances may be given, Williams does not believe that the
ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after
consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery from customers or
other indemnification arrangements, will have a materially adverse effect upon
Williams' future financial position, results of operations or cash flow
requirements.
 
19. MAPCO ACQUISITION
 
     On November 24, 1997, Williams and MAPCO Inc. announced that they had
entered into a definitive merger agreement whereby Williams would acquire MAPCO
by exchanging 1.665 shares of Williams common stock for each outstanding share
of MAPCO common stock. In addition, outstanding MAPCO employee stock options
would be converted into Williams common stock. Approximately 96.8 million shares
of Williams common stock valued at approximately $2.8 billion, based on the
closing market price of Williams common stock on December 31, 1997, would be
issued in the transaction. The transaction, subject to approval by both Williams
and MAPCO stockholders and to review under federal anti-trust laws, is expected
to close during the first quarter of 1998. MAPCO is engaged in the NGL pipeline,
petroleum refining and marketing and propane marketing businesses, and will
become part of the Energy Services business unit.
 
                                      F-45

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The merger will be accounted for as a pooling of interests. Anticipated
changes in accounting methods as a result of the merger are not expected to have
a material impact on the financial position or results of operations of the
combined entity.
 
     The following unaudited pro forma information combines the results of
operations of Williams and MAPCO as if the companies had been combined
throughout the periods presented.
 

 
     Pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of results of
operations that would have occurred if the companies had been combined
throughout the periods presented or of future results of operations of the
combined companies.
 
                                      F-46

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
     Summarized quarterly financial data are as follows (millions, except
per-share amounts). Per-share amounts reflect the effect of the two-for-one
common stock split and distribution (see Note 15) and the adoption of SFAS No.
128.
 

 
     The sum of earnings per share for the four quarters may not equal the total
earnings per share for the year due to changes in the average number of common
shares outstanding.
 
     Second-quarter 1997 net income includes a $44.5 million gain related to the
combination of Williams' and Nortel's customer-premise equipment sales and
service business (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
Third-quarter 1997 net income includes an extraordinary loss of $74 million
related to the restructuring of Williams' debt portfolio (see Note 8 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
     Second-quarter 1996 net income includes recognition of favorable income tax
adjustments totaling $10 million related to research credits and previously
provided deferred income taxes on certain regulated capital projects.
Third-quarter 1996 net income includes approximately $6 million, net of federal
income tax effect, from the effects of state income tax adjustments related to
1995.
 
                                      F-47

 
     Selected comparative fourth-quarter data are as follows (millions, except
per-share amounts).
 

 
     Communications' fourth-quarter 1997 operating profit includes charges
totaling approximately $49.8 million, related to the decision to sell the
learning content business, the write-down of assets and the development costs
associated with advanced applications. In addition, 1997 general corporate
expenses include approximately $5 million in costs related to the MAPCO
acquisition (see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
 
     Field Services' fourth-quarter 1996 operating profit includes a gain of
approximately $20 million from the property insurance coverage associated with
construction of replacement gathering facilities. In addition, 1996 segment
operating profit and general corporate expenses together include approximately
$10 million related to an all-employee bonus that was linked to achieving record
financial performance. In fourth-quarter 1996, Williams recognized a pre-tax
gain of $15.7 million from the sale of certain communication rights.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     None.
 
                                      F-48

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               ITEM 14(a) 1 AND 2
 

 
     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial
statements and notes thereto.
 
                                      F-49

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
              SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS(a)
 

 
- - ---------------
 
(a)  Deducted from related assets.
 
(b)  Represents balances written off, net of recoveries and reclassifications.
 
(c)  Primarily relates to acquisitions of businesses.
 
                                      F-50

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The information regarding the Directors and nominees for Director of
Williams required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is presented under the heading
"Election of Directors" in Williams' Proxy Statement prepared for the
solicitation of proxies in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
the Company for 1998 (the "Proxy Statement"), which information is incorporated
by reference herein. A copy of the Proxy Statement is filed as an exhibit to the
Form 10-K. Information regarding the executive officers of Williams is presented
following Item 4 herein, as permitted by General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K
and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K. Information required by Item
405 of Regulation S-K is included under the heading "Compliance with Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K regarding executive
compensation is presented under the headings "Election of Directors" and
"Executive Compensation and Other Information" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the information provided under the headings "Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation" and "Stockholder Return Performance Presentation" in the
Proxy Statement are not incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the Proxy
Statement is filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information regarding the security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is presented under
the headings "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in
the Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein. A
copy of the Proxy Statement is filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K.
 
                                      F-51

 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     There is no information regarding certain relationships and related
transactions required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K to be reported.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (a) 1 and 2. The financial statements and schedule listed in the
accompanying index to consolidated financial statements are filed as part of
this annual report.
 
     (a) 3 and (c). The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this annual
report.
 
     Exhibit 2 --
 
          *(a) Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 23, 1997, and
     as amended on January 25, 1998, among The Williams Companies, Inc., MAPCO
     Inc. and TML Acquisition Corp. (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's
     Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed January 27, 1998).
 
     Exhibit 3 --
 
          *(a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Williams (filed as
     Exhibit 4(a) to Form 8-B Registration Statement, filed August 20, 1987).
 
          *(b) Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of
     Incorporation, dated May 20, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 3(d) to Form 10-K for
     the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).
 
          *(c) Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of Incorporation
     dated May 16, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on
     Form S-8 filed November 21, 1997).
 
           (d) Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of
     Incorporation, dated February 26, 1998.
 
          *(e) Certificate of Designation with respect to the $3.50 Cumulative
     Convertible Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1(c) to the Prospectus and
     Information Statement to Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on
     Form S-4, filed March 30, 1995).
 
          *(f) Certificate of Increase of Authorized Number of Shares of Series
     A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 3(f) to Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995).
 
           (g) Certificate of Increase of Authorized Number of Shares of Series
     A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, dated December 31, 1997.
 
          *(h) Rights Agreement, dated as of February 6, 1996, between Williams
     and First Chicago Trust Company of New York (filed as Exhibit 4 to Williams
     Form 8-K, filed January 24, 1996).
 
          *(i) By-laws of Williams, as amended (filed, as amended, as Exhibit 3
     to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996).
 
     Exhibit 4 --
 
          *(a) Form of Senior Debt Indenture between the Company and Chase
     Manhattan Bank (formerly Chemical Bank), Trustee, relating to the 10 1/4%
     Debentures, due 2020; the 9 3/8% Debentures, due 2021; the 8 1/4% Notes,
     due 1998; Medium-Term Notes (9.10%-9.31%), due 2001; the 7 1/2% Notes, due
     1999, and the 8 7/8% Debentures, due 2012 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Form S-3
     Registration Statement No. 33-33294, filed February 2, 1990).
 
          *(b) Form of Subordinated Debt Indenture between the Company and Chase
     Manhattan Bank (formerly Chemical Bank), Trustee, relating to 9.60%
     Quarterly Income Capital Securities, due 2025 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Form
     S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-60397, filed June 20, 1995).
 
                                      F-52

 
           (c) U.S. $1,000,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated
     as of July 23, 1997, among Williams and certain of its subsidiaries and the
     banks named therein and Citibank, N.A., as agent.
 
          *(d) Form of Senior Debt Indenture between the Company and The First
     National Bank of Chicago, Trustee, relating to 6.50% Notes due 2002; 6.625%
     Notes due 2004; floating rate notes due 2000; 6 1/8% Notes due 2001; and
     6 1/8% Mandatory Putable/Remarketable Securities due 2012 (filed as Exhibit
     4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed September 8, 1997).
 
          *(e) Form of Debenture representing $360,000,000 principal amount of
     6% Convertible Subordinated Debenture Due 2005 (filed as Exhibit 4.7 to the
     Registration Statement on Form S-8, filed August 30, 1996).
 
          *(f) Form of Warrant to purchase 11,305,720 shares of the Common Stock
     of the Company (filed as Exhibit 4.8 to the Registration Statement on Form
     S-8, filed August 30, 1996).
 
     Exhibit 10(iii) -- Compensatory Plans and Management Contracts
 
          *(a) The Williams Companies, Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan,
     effective as of January 1, 1988 (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(c) to Form 10-K
     for the year ended December 31, 1987).
 
          *(b) Form of Employment Agreement, dated January 1, 1990, between
     Williams and certain executive officers (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(d) to
     Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989).
 
          *(c) Form of The Williams Companies, Inc. Change in Control Protection
     Plan between Williams and employees (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(e) to Form
     10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989).
 
          *(d) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan (filed as
     Exhibit A to Williams' Proxy Statement, dated March 13, 1985).
 
          *(e) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan for
     Non-Employee Directors (filed as Exhibit A to Williams' Proxy Statement,
     dated March 14, 1988).
 
          *(f) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1990 Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit A
     to Williams' Proxy Statement, dated March 12, 1990).
 
          *(g) The Williams Companies, Inc. Stock Plan for Non-Officer Employees
     (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(g) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
     December 31, 1995).
 
          *(h) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit A
     to Williams' Proxy Statement, dated March 27, 1996).
 
          *(i) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan for Non-Employee
     Directors (filed as Exhibit B to Williams' Proxy Statement, dated March 27,
     1996).
 
          *(j) Indemnification Agreement, effective as of August 1, 1986,
     between Williams and members of the Board of Directors and certain officers
     of Williams (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(e) to Form 10-K for the year ended
     December 31, 1986).
 
     Exhibit 11 -- Computation of Earnings Per Common and Common-equivalent
Share.
 
     Exhibit 12 -- Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges
and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.
 
     Exhibit 20 -- Definitive Proxy Statement of Williams for 1998 (as filed
with the Commission on March 27, 1998).
 
     Exhibit 21 -- Subsidiaries of the registrant.
 
     Exhibit 23 -- Consent of Independent Auditors.
 
     Exhibit 24 -- Power of Attorney together with certified resolution.
 
     Exhibit 27 -- Financial Data Schedule.
                                      F-53

 
     Exhibit 27.1 -- Restated Financial Data Schedule for the year ended
December 31, 1996.
 
     Exhibit 27.2 -- Restated Financial Data Schedule for the year ended
December 31, 1995.
 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
     On October 29, 1997, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K to report the
results of the Company's debt tender offer.
 
     On November 15, 1997, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K/A to report
the results of the Company's debt tender offer.
 
     On November 27, 1997, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K to report the
Company's execution of an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated November 23, 1997,
among the Company, MAPCO Inc., and TML Acquisition Corp., providing for the
Company to acquire MAPCO, Inc.
 
     (d) The financial statements of partially-owned companies are not presented
herein since none of them individually, or in the aggregate, constitute a
significant subsidiary.
- - ---------------
 
*    Each such exhibit has heretofore been filed with the Securities and
     Exchange Commission as part of the filing indicated and is incorporated
     herein by reference.
 
                                      F-54

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                            THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
                                                        (Registrant)
 
                                            By:    /s/ SHAWNA L. GEHRES
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                       Shawna L. Gehres
                                                       Attorney-in-fact
 
Dated: March 30, 1998
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 
                                      II-1

 

 
Dated: March 30, 1998
 
                                      II-2

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 


