
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996



 
================================================================================
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
(MARK ONE)
[X]           ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                                       OR
 
[ ]         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4174
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
              Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                 (918) 588-2000
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
 
                                      None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]
 
          The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by
nonaffiliates as of the close of business on March 21, 1997, was approximately
$7.2 billion.
 
     The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding at March
21, 1997, was 158,712,481, excluding 3,637,560 shares held by the Company.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement prepared for the solicitation
of proxies in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company
for 1997 are incorporated by reference in Part III.
================================================================================

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
(A) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS
 
     The Williams Companies, Inc. (the "Company" or "Williams") was incorporated
under the laws of the State of Nevada in 1949 and was reincorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in 1987. The principal executive offices of the
Company are located at One Williams Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172 (telephone
(918) 588-2000). Unless the context otherwise requires, references to the
"Company" and "Williams" herein include The Williams Companies, Inc. and its
subsidiaries.
 
     On January 16, 1996, the Company acquired a 49.9 percent interest from its
partner in Kern River Gas Transmission Company giving the Company 99.9 percent
ownership of this natural gas pipeline system. The purchase price was $206
million. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company
acquired the remaining 0.1 percent interest in the partnership on February 28,
1997, for $387,600.
 
     Also in 1996, the Company combined its energy operations, other than its
interstate natural gas pipelines, under a newly created, wholly owned, indirect
subsidiary, Williams Energy Group, and began reporting such operations for
financial reporting purposes on this basis in the fourth quarter of 1996. In
addition, the Company organized the reporting for its communications operations
under a single communications reporting entity, Williams Communications Group,
Inc., and has reported such operations for financial reporting purposes on this
basis since the third quarter of 1996.
 
     In January 1995, the Company sold the network services operations of its
telecommunications subsidiary to LDDS Communications, Inc. for $2.5 billion in
cash (the "WNS Sale"). The Company has reported the network services operations
as discontinued operations for financial reporting purposes. See Note 3 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company used the proceeds from the WNS
Sale to pay off short-term credit facilities, to fund the acquisition of Transco
Energy Company discussed below, to finance its ongoing capital program and for
other uses.
 
     In December 1994, the Company entered into a merger agreement with Transco
Energy Company. Under the agreement, the Company acquired approximately 60
percent of Transco Energy Company's common stock through a cash tender offer
completed in January 1995. On April 28, 1995, the Transco Energy Company
stockholders approved an agreement and plan of merger whereby Transco Energy
Company became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company effective May 1, 1995.
Total value of the transaction was more than $3 billion, including cash, stock
and the assumption of Transco Energy Company debt. As of May 1, 1995, the
Company caused Transco Energy Company to declare and pay as dividends to the
Company all of Transco Energy Company's interest in Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line Corporation and Texas Gas Transmission Corporation. See Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
(B) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
     See Part II, Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
(C) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
 
     The Company, through subsidiaries, engages in the transportation and sale
of natural gas and related activities; natural gas gathering, processing, and
treating activities; the transportation and terminaling of petroleum products;
hydrocarbon exploration and production activities; the production and marketing
of ethanol; and energy commodity trading and marketing and provides a variety of
other products and services, including price risk management services, to the
energy industry. The Company also engages in the communications business. In
1996, the Company's energy subsidiaries owned and operated: (i) five interstate

 
natural gas pipeline systems; (ii) natural gas production properties; (iii)
natural gas gathering and processing facilities; (iv) a common carrier petroleum
products and crude oil pipeline system; (v) petroleum products terminals; and
(vi) ethanol production facilities. The Company also trades and markets energy
commodities and offers price-risk management services. The Company's
communications subsidiaries offer: (i) data-, voice- and video-related products
and services; (ii) advertising distribution services; (iii) video services and
other multimedia services for the broadcast industry; (iv) broadcast facsimile
and audio- and videoconferencing services for businesses; (v) interactive,
computer-based training and services; (vi) customer-premise voice and data
equipment, including installation and maintenance; and (vii) network integration
and management services nationwide. The Company also has investments in the
equity of certain other companies.
 
     Substantially all operations of Williams are conducted through
subsidiaries. Williams performs management, legal, financial, tax, consultative,
administrative and other services for its subsidiaries. Williams' principal
sources of cash are from dividends and advances from its subsidiaries,
investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered and interest
payments from subsidiaries on cash advances. The amount of dividends available
to Williams from subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary's earnings
and operating capital requirements. The terms of certain subsidiaries' borrowing
arrangements limit the transfer of funds to the Company.
                         ------------------------------
 
     To achieve organizational and operating efficiencies, the Company's
interstate natural gas pipelines are grouped together and are referred to
internally as the interstate natural gas systems. All other operating companies
are owned directly by Williams Holdings of Delaware, Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company. The energy operations of Williams Holdings of
Delaware, Inc. are grouped into a wholly-owned subsidiary, Williams Energy
Group, and its communications operations are grouped into a wholly-owned
subsidiary, Williams Communications Group, Inc. Item 1 of this report is
formatted to reflect this structure.
 
                    WILLIAMS INTERSTATE NATURAL GAS SYSTEMS
 
     The Company's interstate natural gas pipeline group owns and operates a
combined total of approximately 28,000 miles of pipelines with a total annual
throughput of approximately 3,800 TBtu* of natural gas and peak-day delivery
capacity of approximately 15 Bcf of natural gas. The interstate natural gas
pipeline group consists of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, Northwest
Pipeline Corporation, Kern River Gas Transmission Company, Texas Gas
Transmission Corporation and Williams Natural Gas Company, owners and operators
of interstate natural gas pipeline systems. As previously noted, the Company
acquired Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation and Texas Gas Transmission
Corporation in 1995. For the accounting treatment of the acquisition, see Note 2
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Also as noted above, the Company
acquired an additional 49.9 percent interest in Kern River Gas Transmission
Company in January 1996 and the remaining 0.1 percent interest in February 1997.
 
     The interstate natural gas pipeline group's transmission and storage
activities are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
("FERC") under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 ("Natural Gas Act") and under the
Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 ("NGPA"), and, as such, their rates and charges
for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, the extension,
enlargement or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities, and accounting, among
other things, are subject to regulation. Each pipeline holds certificates of
public convenience and necessity issued by FERC authorizing ownership and
operation of all pipelines, facilities and properties considered jurisdictional
for which certificates are required under the Natural Gas Act. Each pipeline is
also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended by Title
I of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, which regulates safety requirements in the
design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate gas transmission
facilities.
 
     A business description of each company in the interstate natural gas
pipeline group follows.
 
- ---------------
 
* The term "Mcf" means thousand cubic feet, "MMcf" means million cubic feet and
  "Bcf" means billion cubic feet. All volumes of natural gas are stated at a
  pressure base of 14.73 pounds per square inch absolute at 60 degrees
  Fahrenheit. The term "Btu" means British Thermal Unit, "MMBtu" means one
  million British Thermal Units and "TBtu" means one trillion British Thermal
  Units.
 

 
TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION (TRANSCO)
 
     Transco is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns a
10,500-mile natural gas pipeline system extending from Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through the states of Alabama,
Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and
New Jersey to the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers
in Texas and eleven southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major
metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina, New York, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania. Effective May 1, 1995, Transco transferred the operation of
certain production area facilities to Williams Field Services Group, Inc., an
affiliated company.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     At December 31, 1996, Transco's system had a mainline delivery capacity of
approximately 3.6 Bcf of gas per day from production areas to its primary
markets. Using its Leidy Line and market-area storage capacity, Transco can
deliver an additional 2.9 Bcf of gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity
total of approximately 6.5 Bcf of gas per day. Excluding the production area
facilities operated by Williams Field Services Group, Inc., Transco's system is
composed of approximately 7,300 miles of mainline and branch transmission
pipelines, 37 compressor stations and six storage locations. Compression
facilities at a sea level-rated capacity total approximately 1.2 million
horsepower.
 
     Transco's major gas transportation customers are public utilities and
municipalities that provide service to residential, commercial, industrial and
electric generation end users. Shippers on Transco's pipeline system include
public utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users,
electrical generators, marketers and producers. Transco's largest customer in
1996 accounted for approximately 11 percent of Transco's total operating
revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of total
operating revenues. Transco's firm transportation agreements are generally
long-term agreements with various expiration dates and account for the major
portion of Transco's business. Additionally, Transco offers interruptible
transportation services under shorter term agreements.
 
     Transco has natural gas storage capacity in five underground storage fields
located on or near its pipeline system and/or market areas and operates three of
these storage fields and a liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage facility. The
total storage capacity available to Transco and its customers in such storage
fields and LNG facility is approximately 216 Bcf of gas. Storage capacity
permits Transco's customers to inject gas into storage during the summer and
off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.
 
  Expansion Projects
 
     In August 1996, Transco filed for FERC approval to expand the offshore
portion of its existing Southeast Louisiana Gathering System in two phases to
provide a total of 660 MMcf of gas per day of additional firm transportation
capacity. Transco estimates the cost of the expansion to be approximately $129
million and expects to invest approximately $95 million in 1997.
 
     In November 1996, Transco filed for FERC approval to extend and expand its
Mobile Bay lateral. The project will include expansion of Transco's existing
123-mile Mobile Bay lateral and construction of a new 77-mile offshore pipeline
extension to an area near the outer continental shelf. The project, which would
increase capacity as much as 600 MMcf of gas per day at an estimated cost of
$171 million, is targeted to be in service by the 1998-99 winter heating season.
In December, Transco received nominations for 300 MMcf of gas per day of
capacity in the project.
 
     In November 1996, Transco completed and placed into service the Southeast
Expansion Project. Since late 1994, the project has added 205 MMcf of gas per
day of firm transportation capacity to Transco's customers in the southeast. The
total cost of the expansion was approximately $106 million, of which
approximately $22 million was invested in 1996.
 
     In November 1996, FERC approved the Pine Needle LNG storage project.
Transco and several of its major customers will construct and own the facility,
which will be located near Transco's mainline system in Guilford, North
Carolina. The project will have 4 Bcf of storage capacity and 400 MMcf of gas
per day of
 

 
withdrawal capacity. Transco will operate the facility and have a 35 percent
ownership interest. Construction began in February 1997, and the project is
expected to be in service by the second quarter of 1999. The FERC application
estimates the total cost of the project to be $107 million.
 
     In December 1996, Transco and several major customers announced the filing
with the North Carolina Utilities Commission for approval of the Cardinal
Pipeline System project. The project involves the acquisition of an existing
37-mile pipeline in North Carolina and construction of a 67-mile pipeline
extension. Transco expects to complete construction of the pipeline extension by
the end of 1999. Transco will operate the expanded pipeline system and have a 45
percent ownership interest. Transco expects to make equity investments of
approximately $22 million in this project.
 
     In December 1996, FERC approved the SunBelt Expansion Project, which will
provide additional firm transportation capacity to markets in Georgia, South
Carolina and North Carolina. The SunBelt Expansion Project will provide a total
of 146 MMcf of gas per day of firm transportation capacity to existing and new
Transco customers by the 1997-1998 winter heating season. Transco estimates the
cost of the expansion to be approximately $85 million. Transco spent
approximately $12 million on the project in 1996 and expects to invest
approximately $68 million in 1997.
 
     In November 1996, FERC made a preliminary determination that public
convenience and necessity requires Transco's SeaBoard Expansion Project but
denied Transco's request for rolled-in rate treatment. Transco has spent
approximately $6 million on the project to date. In response to FERC's denial of
rolled-in rate treatment, Transco has plans to significantly modify this
project.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated, including periods during which the Company did not
own Transco:
 

 
NORTHWEST PIPELINE CORPORATION (NORTHWEST PIPELINE)
 
     Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transmission company that
owns and operates a pipeline system for the mainline transmission of natural gas
extending from the San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern
Colorado through Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon and Washington to a
point on the Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides
services for markets in California, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming,
Idaho, Oregon and Washington, directly or indirectly through interconnections
with other pipelines.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     At December 31, 1996, Northwest Pipeline's system, having an aggregate
mainline deliverability of approximately 2.5 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of
approximately 3,900 miles of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and 40
mainline compressor stations with a combined capacity of approximately 307,000
horsepower.
 
     In 1996, Northwest Pipeline transported natural gas for a total of 143
customers. Transportation customers include distribution companies,
municipalities, interstate and intrastate pipelines, gas marketers and
 

 
direct industrial users. The three largest customers of Northwest Pipeline in
1996 accounted for approximately 15.5 percent, 15.3 percent and 10.4 percent,
respectively, of total operating revenues. No other customer accounted for more
than 10 percent of total operating revenues. Northwest Pipeline's firm
transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with various
expiration dates and account for the major portion of Northwest Pipeline's
business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline offers interruptible transportation
service under agreements that are generally short term.
 
     As a part of its transportation services, Northwest Pipeline utilizes
underground storage facilities in Utah and Washington enabling it to balance
daily receipts and deliveries. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates a
liquefied natural gas storage facility in Washington that provides a
needle-peaking service for the system. These storage facilities have an
aggregate delivery capacity of approximately 973 MMcf of gas per day.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtus):
 

 
KERN RIVER GAS TRANSMISSION COMPANY (KERN RIVER)
 
     Kern River is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and
operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from Wyoming through Utah and
Nevada to California. Kern River had been jointly owned and operated by Williams
Western Pipeline Company, a subsidiary of the Company, and a subsidiary of an
unaffiliated company. As previously indicated, the Company acquired an
additional 49.9 percent interest in Kern River in January 1996. See Note 2 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In February 1997, the Company
acquired the remaining 0.1 percent interest in Kern River. The transmission
system, which commenced operations in February 1992 following completion of
construction, delivers natural gas primarily to the enhanced oil recovery fields
in southern California. The system also transports natural gas for utilities,
municipalities and industries in California, Nevada and Utah.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     As of December 31, 1996, Kern River's pipeline system was composed of
approximately 705 miles of mainline and branch transmission and five compressor
stations having an aggregate mainline delivery capacity of 700 MMcf of gas per
day. The pipeline system interconnects with the pipeline facilities of another
pipeline company at Daggett, California. From the point of interconnection, Kern
River and the other pipeline company have a common 219-mile pipeline which is
owned 63.6 percent by Kern River and 36.4 percent by the other pipeline company,
as tenants in common, and is designed to accommodate the combined throughput of
both systems. This common facility has a capacity of 1.1 Bcf of gas per day.
 
     Gas is transported for others under firm long-term transportation contracts
totaling 682 MMcf of gas per day. In 1996, Kern River transported natural gas
for customers in California, Nevada and Utah. Gas was transported for five
customers in Kern County, California, for reinjection as a part of enhanced oil
recovery operations and for 28 local distribution customers, electric utilities,
cogeneration projects and commercial and other industrial customers. The five
largest customers of Kern River in 1996 accounted for approximately 14 percent,
13 percent, 12 percent, 11 percent and 11 percent, respectively, of operating
revenues. Three of these customers serve the enhanced oil recovery fields. No
other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of operating revenues in 1996.
 
     During 1995, Kern River executed a seasonal firm transportation contract to
deliver natural gas into the Las Vegas, Nevada, market area during the winter
months. Kern River expects to begin deliveries of 10 MMcf of gas per day in
December 1997 and to escalate such deliveries to 40 MMcf of gas per day on a
seasonal basis in 1999.
 

 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtus):
 

 
TEXAS GAS TRANSMISSION CORPORATION (TXG)
 
     TXG is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and
operates a natural gas pipeline system originating in the Louisiana Gulf Coast
area and in east Texas and running generally north and east through Louisiana,
Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and into Ohio, with smaller
diameter lines extending into Illinois. TXG's direct market area encompasses
eight states in the South and Midwest, and includes the Memphis, Tennessee;
Louisville, Kentucky; Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio; and Indianapolis, Indiana,
metropolitan areas. TXG also has indirect market access to the Northeast through
interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     At December 31, 1996, TXG's system, having a mainline delivery capacity of
approximately 2.8 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of approximately 6,000 miles
of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and 32 compressor stations having
a sea level-rated capacity totaling approximately 549,000 horsepower.
 
     In 1996, TXG transported gas to customers in Louisiana, Arkansas,
Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois and Ohio and to customers in
the Northeast served indirectly by TXG. TXG transported gas for 133 distribution
companies and municipalities for resale to residential, commercial and
industrial users. TXG provided transportation services to approximately 102
industrial customers located along the system. At December 31, 1996, TXG had
transportation contracts with approximately 559 shippers. Transportation
shippers include distribution companies, municipalities, intrastate pipelines,
direct industrial users, electrical generators, marketers and producers. No
customer of TXG accounted for more than 10 percent of total operating revenues
during 1996. TXG's firm transportation agreements are generally long-term
agreements with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of
TXG's business. Additionally, TXG offers interruptible transportation services
under agreements that are generally short-term.
 
     TXG owns and operates natural gas storage reservoirs in 10 underground
storage fields located on or near its pipeline system and/or market areas. The
storage capacity of TXG's certificated storage fields is approximately 177 Bcf
of gas. TXG's storage gas is used in part to meet operational balancing needs on
its system, and in part to meet the requirements of TXG's "no-notice"
transportation service, which allows TXG's customers to temporarily draw from
TXG's storage gas to be repaid in-kind during the following summer season. A
large portion of the gas delivered by TXG to its market area is used for space
heating, resulting in substantially higher daily requirements during winter
months.
 

 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes total system
transportation volumes for the periods indicated, including periods during which
the Company did not own TXG:
 

 
WILLIAMS NATURAL GAS COMPANY (WILLIAMS NATURAL GAS)
 
     Williams Natural Gas is an interstate natural gas transmission company that
owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system located in Colorado, Kansas,
Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming. The system serves customers in
seven states, including major metropolitan areas of Kansas and Missouri, its
chief market areas.
 
  Pipeline System and Customers
 
     At December 31, 1996, Williams Natural Gas's system, having a mainline
delivery capacity of approximately 2.2 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of
approximately 6,000 miles of mainline and branch transmission and storage
pipelines and 41 compressor stations having a sea level-rated capacity totaling
approximately 227,000 horsepower.
 
     In 1996, Williams Natural Gas transported gas to customers in Colorado,
Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming. Gas was transported for
78 distribution companies and municipalities for resale to residential,
commercial and industrial users in approximately 530 cities and towns.
Transportation services were provided to approximately 340 industrial customers,
federal and state institutions and agricultural processing plants located
principally in Kansas, Missouri and Oklahoma. At December 31, 1996, Williams
Natural Gas had transportation contracts with approximately 196 shippers.
Transportation shippers included distribution companies, municipalities,
intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users, electrical generators, marketers
and producers.
 
     In 1996, approximately 70 percent (approximately 35 percent each) of total
operating revenues were generated from gas transportation services to Williams
Natural Gas's two largest customers, Western Resources, Inc. and Missouri Gas
Energy Company. Western Resources sells or resells gas to residential,
commercial and industrial customers principally in certain major metropolitan
areas of Kansas. Missouri Gas Energy sells or resells gas to residential,
commercial and industrial customers principally in certain major metropolitan
areas of Missouri. No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of
operating revenues during 1996.
 
     Williams Natural Gas provides a significant portion of its transportation
services to Western Resources pursuant to a 20-year transportation service
agreement. After the initial two-year period which ended in November 1996, the
contract allows Western Resources, on twelve-months prior notice, to reduce
contracted capacity if Williams Natural Gas does not meet the terms of a
competing offer from another natural gas pipeline to serve such capacity. To
date, Williams Natural Gas has not received such a notice from Western
Resources. Williams Natural Gas provides transportation services to Missouri Gas
Energy under contracts primarily varying in terms from two to five years. These
contracts do not have competitive out provisions as described in connection with
the Western Resources' contract. During 1995, these two customers entered into
contracts with a competitor as part of a litigation settlement. Following a
decision by the Kansas Court of Appeals, the Western Resources contracts were
deemed approved by operation of law. Subsequently, the competitor assigned the
contracts with Western Resources and Missouri Gas Energy to another competitor
of Williams Natural Gas. The two competitors are engaged in the acquisition of
right-of-way and other acts to
 

 
begin construction under the contracts with Western Resources and Missouri Gas
Energy. Up to 25 percent of the firm capacity now transported by Williams
Natural Gas into the Kansas City market could be at risk if the pipeline
contemplated by the contracts is built. Certain landowners whose property must
be condemned to complete the project are challenging completion of the
facilities. The contracts may be subject to termination if certain completion
dates are not met.
 
     Williams Natural Gas operates nine underground storage fields with an
aggregate working gas storage capacity of approximately 43 Bcf and an aggregate
delivery capacity of approximately 1.2 Bcf of gas per day. Williams Natural
Gas's customers inject gas in these fields when demand is low and withdraw it to
supply their peak requirements. During periods of peak demand, approximately
two-thirds of the firm gas delivered to customers is supplied from these storage
fields. Storage capacity enables the system to operate more uniformly and
efficiently during the year.
 
     In 1996, Williams Natural Gas entered firm transportation contracts to
serve two electrical generation plants in the Kansas City area for potential
daily usage of up to 100,000 MMBtu per day.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtus):
 

 
                             ---------------------
 
REGULATORY MATTERS
 
     In 1992, FERC issued Order 636, which required interstate pipeline
companies to restructure their tariffs to eliminate traditional on-system sales
services. In addition, the Order required implementation of various changes in
forms of service, including unbundling of gathering, transmission and storage
services; terms and conditions of service; rate design; gas supply realignment
cost recovery; and other major rate and tariff revisions. Kern River implemented
its restructuring on August 1, 1993; Williams Natural Gas implemented its
restructuring on October 1, 1993; and Transco, Northwest Pipeline and TXG
implemented their restructurings on November 1, 1993. Certain aspects of four
pipeline company's Order 636 restructurings are under appeal.
 
     Each interstate natural gas pipeline has various regulatory proceedings
pending. Rates are established primarily through FERC's ratemaking process. Key
determinants in the ratemaking process are (1) costs of providing service,
including depreciation rates, (2) allowed rate of return, including the equity
component of the capital structure, and (3) volume throughput assumptions. FERC
determines the allowed rate of return in each rate case. Rate design and the
allocation of costs between the demand and commodity rates also impact
profitability. As a result of such proceedings, the pipeline companies have
collected a portion of their revenues subject to refund. See Note 12 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for the amount of revenues reserved for
potential refund as of December 31, 1996.
 
     Each interstate natural gas pipeline company, except Kern River, has
undertaken the reformation of its respective gas supply contracts. None of the
pipelines have any significant pending supplier take-or-pay, ratable-take or
minimum-take claims. For information on outstanding issues with respect to
contract reformation, gas purchase deficiencies and related regulatory issues,
see Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
COMPETITION
 
     Competition for natural gas transportation has intensified in recent years
due to customer access to other pipelines, rate competitiveness among pipelines,
customers' desire to have more than one transporter and regulatory developments.
FERC's stated purpose for implementing Order 636 was to improve the competitive
 

 
structure of the natural gas pipeline industry. Future utilization of pipeline
capacity will depend on competition from other pipelines, use of alternative
fuels, the general level of natural gas demand and weather conditions.
Electricity and distillate fuel oil are primary competitive forms of energy for
residential and commercial markets. Coal and residual fuel oil compete for
industrial and electric generation markets. Nuclear and hydroelectric power and
power purchased from grid arrangements among electric utilities also compete
with gas-fired power generation in certain markets.
 
     As mentioned, when restructured tariffs became effective under Order 636,
all suppliers of natural gas were able to compete for any gas markets capable of
being served by the pipelines using nondiscriminatory transportation services
provided by the pipelines. As the Order 636 regulated environment has matured,
many pipelines have faced reduced levels of subscribed capacity as contractual
terms expire and customers opt to reduce firm capacity under contract in favor
of alternative sources of transmission and related services. This situation,
known in the industry as "capacity turnback," is forcing the pipelines to
evaluate the consequences of major demand reductions on system utilization and
cost structure to remaining customers.
 
     The Company is aware that several state jurisdictions have been involved in
implementing changes similar to the changes that have occurred at the federal
level under Order 636. Such activity, frequently referred to as "LDC
unbundling," has been most pronounced in the states of New York, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania. New York and New Jersey enacted regulations regarding LDC
unbundling in 1995. Pennsylvania is expected to enact an LDC unbundling program
in 1997. In addition, Maryland currently has a pilot unbundling program for
industrial, commercial, and residential end-users and may take additional steps
toward unbundling in 1997. Georgia may also act in 1997 to implement an LDC
unbundling program. Management expects these regulations to encourage greater
competition in the natural gas marketplace.
 
OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
 
     Each of the Company's interstate natural gas pipeline subsidiaries
generally owns its facilities in fee. However, a substantial portion of each
pipeline's facilities is constructed and maintained pursuant to rights-of-way,
easements, permits, licenses or consents on and across properties owned by
others. Compressor stations, with appurtenant facilities, are located in whole
or in part either on lands owned or on sites held under leases or permits issued
or approved by public authorities. The storage facilities are either owned or
contracted under long-term leases or easements.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
     Each interstate natural gas pipeline is subject to the National
Environmental Policy Act and federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that, with
respect to any capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses
required to meet applicable environmental standards and regulations, FERC would
grant the requisite rate relief so that, for the most part, the pipeline
subsidiaries could recover such expenditures in their rates. For this reason,
management believes that compliance with applicable environmental requirements
by the interstate pipelines is not likely to have a material effect upon the
Company's earnings or competitive position.
 
     For a discussion of specific environmental issues involving the interstate
pipelines, including estimated cleanup costs associated with certain pipeline
activities, see "Environmental" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 17 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
            WILLIAMS HOLDINGS OF DELAWARE, INC. (WILLIAMS HOLDINGS)
 
     In 1994, the Company established Williams Holdings to be a holding company
for its assets other than its interstate natural gas pipelines and related
assets. Virtually all of Williams Holdings' assets were operated by other
subsidiaries of the Company prior to January 1, 1995.
 

 
     Williams Holdings' energy subsidiaries are engaged in exploration and
production; natural gas gathering and processing; petroleum products
transportation and terminaling; ethanol production; and energy commodity
marketing and trading and price risk management services. In addition, these
subsidiaries provide a variety of other products and services to the energy
industry. Williams Holdings' communications subsidiaries offer data-, voice-,
and video-related products and services and customer premise voice and data
equipment, including installation and maintenance, nationwide. Williams Holdings
also has certain other equity investments.
 
WILLIAMS ENERGY GROUP (WILLIAMS ENERGY)
 
     In 1996, Williams Holdings reorganized its energy operations under a newly
created, wholly owned subsidiary, Williams Energy, and began reporting such
operations for financial reporting purposes on this basis in the fourth quarter
of 1996. Management believes the new structure will better position it to offer
customers a full range of energy products and services by capitalizing on
synergies of the combined business units.
 
     Williams Energy is comprised of four major business units: Exploration and
Production, Field Services, Petroleum Services, and Merchant Services. Through
its business units, Williams Energy engages in energy production and exploration
activities; natural gas gathering, processing, and treating; petroleum liquids
transportation and terminal services; ethanol production; and energy commodity
marketing and trading.
 
     Williams Energy, through its subsidiaries, owns 531 Bcf of proved natural
gas reserves located primarily in the San Juan Basin of Colorado and New Mexico
and owns and operates approximately 11,000 miles of gathering pipelines, eight
gas treating plants, 10 gas processing plants, 57 petroleum products terminals,
and approximately 9,300 miles of liquids pipeline. Physical and notional volumes
traded by Williams Energy's merchant services unit approximated 6,552 TBtu
equivalents in 1996. Williams Energy, through its subsidiaries, employs
approximately 2,500 employees.
 
     Revenues and operating profit for Williams Energy by business unit are
reported in Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein.
 
     A business description of each of Williams Energy's business units follows.
 
     EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
 
     Williams Energy, through its wholly owned subsidiary Williams Production
Company (Williams Production), owns and operates producing gas leasehold
properties in Colorado, Louisiana, New Mexico, Texas, Utah, Wyoming, and
offshore in the Gulf of Mexico.
 
     In December 1996, Williams Production entered into an agreement with an
unaffiliated exploration company for the joint exploration of 27,000 acres in
the Houma Embayment Area of southern Louisiana. Williams Production will earn a
50 percent working interest in the leasehold block by drilling up to eight
exploratory wells within a 125-square mile 3-D seismic survey during the next
12-18 months. Williams Production also purchased 50 percent of this company's
working interest in 23 producing wells and associated facilities in the area
with daily production of approximately 9,000 MMBtus per day. Also in 1996,
Williams Production acquired leasehold interests in the East Texas Haynesville
Cotton Valley Reef and now controls, along with unaffiliated partners, in excess
of 135,000 gross acres in this area.
 
     Gas Reserves. As of December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994, Williams Production
had proved developed natural gas reserves of 323 Bcf, 292 Bcf, 269 Bcf,
respectively, and proved undeveloped reserves of 208 Bcf, 222 Bcf, and 220 Bcf,
respectively. Of Williams Production's total proved reserves, 87 percent are
located in the San Juan Basin of Colorado and New Mexico. No major discovery or
other favorable or adverse event has caused a significant change in estimated
gas reserves since year end.
 

 
     Customers and Operations. As of December 31, 1996, the gross and net
developed leasehold acres owned by Williams Production totaled 263,869 and
114,183, respectively, and the gross and net undeveloped acres owned were
339,540 and 76,722, respectively. As of such date, Williams Production owned
interests in 2,911 gross producing wells (523 net) on its leasehold lands. The
following table summarizes drilling activity for the periods indicated:
 

 
     The majority of Williams Production's gas production is currently being
sold in the spot market at market prices. Total net production sold during 1996,
1995, and 1994 was 26.8 Bcf, 26.3 Bcf, and 23.2 Bcf, respectively. The average
production costs, including production taxes, per Mcf of gas produced were $.27,
$.26, and $.30, in 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively. The average wellhead
sales price per Mcf was $.98, $.88, and $1.19, respectively, for the same
periods.
 
     In 1993, Williams Production conveyed a net profits interest in certain of
its properties to the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust. Williams
subsequently sold Trust Units to the public in an underwritten public offering.
Williams Holdings holds 3,568,791 Trust Units representing 36.8 percent of
outstanding Units. Substantially all of the production attributable to the
properties conveyed to the Trust was from the Fruitland coal formation and
constituted coal seam gas. Proved developed coal seam gas reserves at December
31, 1996, attributed to the properties conveyed were 149 Bcf. Production
information reported herein includes Williams Production's interest in such
Units.
 
    FIELD SERVICES
 
     Williams Energy, through Williams Field Services Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries (Field Services), owns and operates nonregulated natural gas
gathering, processing, and treating facilities located in northwestern New
Mexico, southwestern Colorado, southwestern Wyoming, northwestern Oklahoma,
southwestern Kansas, and also in areas offshore and onshore in Texas and
Louisiana. Field Services also operates regulated gathering facilities owned by
Transco, an affiliated company. In February 1996, Field Services and Transco
filed applications with FERC to spindown all of Transco's gathering facilities
to Field Services. FERC subsequently denied these requests and Field Services
and Transco have filed a request for rehearing of this denial. Gathering
services provided include the gathering of gas and the treating of coal seam
gas.
 
     Expansion Projects. Field Services expanded its gulf coast operations in
1996 primarily through acquisitions. In July, Field Services acquired a 70 MMcf
per day processing plant in south-central Louisiana. In November, Field Services
signed a letter of intent to acquire the remaining 50 percent interest in a 500
MMcf per day processing plant in southwestern Louisiana and acquired a majority
portion in a south Texas gathering system. In addition, Field Services expanded
its gathering system in the San Juan Basin, completed construction of a 50 MMcf
per day CO(2) treating facility in the Oklahoma Panhandle, and acquired the
remaining 50 percent interest in a 60 MMcf per day processing plant in southern
Texas.
 
     Customers and Operations. Facilities owned and operated by Field Services
consist of approximately 11,000 miles of gathering pipelines, eight gas treating
plants and 10 gas processing plants (five of which are partially owned). The
aggregate daily inlet capacity is approximately 7.9 Bcf and 6.9 Bcf of gas for
the gathering systems and gas processing, treating, and dehydration facilities,
respectively. Gathering and processing customers have direct access to
interstate pipelines, including affiliated pipelines, which provide access to
multiple markets.
 
     During 1996, Field Services gathered natural gas for 314 customers. The
largest gathering customer accounted for approximately 15 percent of total
gathered volumes. During 1996, Field Services processed natural gas for a total
of 119 customers. The three largest customers accounted for approximately 25
percent, 12 percent, and 10 percent, respectively, of total processed volumes.
No other customer accounted for more than 10 percent of gathered or processed
volumes. Field Services' gathering and processing agreements with
 

 
large customers are generally long-term agreements with various expiration
dates. These long-term agreements account for the majority of the gas gathered
and processed by Field Services.
 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes gathering, processing,
and natural gas liquid sales volumes for the periods indicated. The information
includes operations attributed to facilities owned by affiliated entities but
operated by Field Services:
 

 
    PETROLEUM SERVICES
 
     Williams Energy, through wholly owned subsidiaries in its Petroleum
Services unit, owns and operates a petroleum products and crude oil pipeline,
two ethanol production plants (one of which is partially owned), and petroleum
products terminals and provides services and markets products related thereto.
 
     Transportation. A subsidiary in the Petroleum Services unit, Williams Pipe
Line Company (Williams Pipe Line), owns and operates a petroleum products and
crude oil pipeline system which covers an 11-state area extending from Oklahoma
in the south to North Dakota and Minnesota in the north and Illinois in the
east. The system is operated as a common carrier offering transportation and
terminaling services on a nondiscriminatory basis under published tariffs. The
system transports refined products, LP-gases, lube extracted fuel oil, and crude
oil.
 
     At December 31, 1996, the system traversed approximately 7,300 miles of
right-of-way and included approximately 9,300 miles of pipeline in various sizes
up to 16 inches in diameter. The system includes 82 pumping stations, 23 million
barrels of storage capacity, and 47 delivery terminals. The terminals are
equipped to deliver refined products into tank trucks and tank cars. The maximum
number of barrels which the system can transport per day depends upon the
operating balance achieved at a given time between various segments of the
system. Because the balance is dependent upon the mix of products to be shipped
and the demand levels at the various delivery points, the exact capacity of the
system cannot be stated.
 
     Operating Statistics. The operating statistics set forth below relate to
the system's operations for the periods indicated:
 

 
     Environmental regulations and changing crude supply patterns continue to
affect the refining industry. The industry's response to environmental
regulations and changing supply patterns will directly affect volumes and
products shipped on the Williams Pipe Line system. Environmental Protection
Agency ("EPA") regulations, driven by the Clean Air Act, require refiners to
change the composition of fuel manufactured. A pipeline's ability to respond to
the effects of regulation and changing supply patterns will determine its
ability
 

 
to maintain and capture new market shares. Williams Pipe Line has successfully
responded to changes in diesel fuel composition and product supply and has
adapted to new gasoline additive requirements. Reformulated gasoline regulations
have not yet significantly affected Williams Pipe Line. Williams Pipe Line will
continue to attempt to position itself to respond to changing regulations and
supply patterns, but the Company cannot predict how future changes in the
marketplace will affect Williams Pipe Line's market areas.
 
     Ethanol. Williams Energy, through its wholly owned subsidiary Williams
Energy Ventures, Inc. (WEV), is engaged in the production and marketing of
ethanol. WEV owns and operates two ethanol plants of which corn is the principal
feedstock. The Pekin, Illinois, plant, which WEV purchased in 1995, has an
annual production capacity of 100 million gallons of fuel-grade and industrial
ethanol and also produces various coproducts. The Aurora, Nebraska, plant (in
which WEV owns a 75 percent interest) began operations in November 1995 and has
an annual production capacity of 30 million gallons. WEV also markets ethanol
produced by third parties.
 
     The sales volumes set forth below include ethanol produced by third parties
as well as by WEV for the periods indicated:
 

 
     Terminals and Services Williams Energy, through its subsidiary WEV,
operates petroleum products terminals in the western and southeastern United
States and provides services including performance additives and ethanol
blending. In September 1996, WEV acquired a 45.5 percent interest in eight
petroleum products terminals located in the southeast United States. During the
last four months of the year, these terminals loaded 7.8 million barrels of
refined products.
 
    MERCHANT SERVICES
 
     Williams Energy, through subsidiaries, primarily Williams Energy Services
Company and its subsidiaries ("WESCO"), offers a full suite of energy products
and services throughout North America and serves over 2,000 companies. WESCO's
business includes natural gas and energy commodity marketing activities, at both
the wholesale and retail levels. In addition, WESCO offers a comprehensive array
of price-risk management products and services and capital services to the
diverse energy industry.
 
     WESCO markets natural gas throughout North America and grew its total
volumes (physical and notional) to an average of 15.9 TBtu per day in 1996. The
core of WESCO's business has traditionally been the Gulf Coast and eastern
regions, using the pipeline systems owned by the Company, but also includes
marketing on approximately 30 non-Williams' pipelines. WESCO's natural gas
customers include producers, industrials, local distribution companies,
utilities, and other marketers.
 
     During 1996, WESCO also marketed natural gas liquids, crude, refined
products, and liquefied natural gas with total volumes (physical and notional)
averaging 2.0 TBtu per day.
 
     WESCO entered the power marketing and trading business in 1996. During its
first year of operations, WESCO's power group marketed over 4 million megawatt
hours (physical and notional) of power.
 
     WESCO provides price risk management services through a variety of
financial instruments including option and swap agreements related to various
energy commodities. Through its capital financing services, WESCO also provides
participants in the energy industry with capital for energy-related projects
including acquisitions of proved reserves and re-working of wells.
 
     In 1996, WESCO established a retail energy services group. As a part of
this strategy, WESCO acquired a 50 percent interest in Volunteer Energy
Corporation, a natural gas marketing company with experience in end-use markets.
WESCO has also aligned with Boston Edison Company to form EnergyVision, an
enterprise designed to provide access to retail energy markets in the New
England area.
 

 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes operating profit and
marketing volumes for the periods indicated (dollars in million, volumes in TBtu
equivalents):
 

 
                             ---------------------
 
REGULATORY MATTERS
 
     Field Services. Historically, an issue has existed as to whether FERC has
authority under the Natural Gas Act to regulate gathering and processing prices
and services. During 1994, after reviewing its legal authority in a Public
Comment Proceeding, FERC determined that while it retains some regulatory
jurisdiction over gathering and processing performed by interstate pipelines,
pipeline-affiliated gathering and processing companies are outside its authority
under the Natural Gas Act. An appellate court has affirmed FERC's determination.
As a result of these FERC decisions, several of the individual states in which
Field Services conducts its operations may consider whether to impose regulatory
requirements on gathering companies. No state currently regulates Field
Services' gathering or processing rates or services.
 
     Petroleum Services. Williams Pipe Line, as an interstate common carrier
pipeline, is subject to the provisions and regulations of the Interstate
Commerce Act. Under this Act, Williams Pipe Line is required, among other
things, to establish just, reasonable and nondiscriminatory rates, to file its
tariffs with FERC, to keep its records and accounts pursuant to the Uniform
System of Accounts for Oil Pipeline Companies, to make annual reports to FERC
and to submit to examination of its records by the audit staff of FERC.
Authority to regulate rates, shipping rules, and other practices and to
prescribe depreciation rates for common carrier pipelines is exercised by FERC.
The Department of Transportation, as authorized by the 1992 Pipeline Safety
Reauthorization Act, is the oversight authority for interstate liquids
pipelines. Williams Pipe Line is also subject to the provisions of various state
laws applicable to intrastate pipelines.
 
     On December 31, 1989, a rate cap, which resulted from a settlement with
several shippers, effectively freezing Williams Pipe Line's rates for the
previous five years, expired. Williams Pipe Line filed a revised tariff on
January 16, 1990, with FERC and the state commissions. The tariff set an average
increase in rates of 11 percent and established volume incentives and
proportional rate discounts. Certain shippers on the Williams Pipe Line system
and a competing pipeline carrier filed protests with FERC alleging that the
revised rates are not just and reasonable and are unlawfully discriminatory.
Williams Pipe Line elected to bifurcate this proceeding in accordance with the
then-current FERC policy. Phase I of FERC's bifurcated proceeding provides a
carrier the opportunity to justify its rates and rate structure by demonstrating
that its markets are workably competitive. Any issues unresolved in Phase I
require cost justification in Phase II.
 
     FERC's Presiding Judge issued the Initial Decision in Phase II on May 29,
1996. The Judge ruled that Williams Pipe Line failed to demonstrate that the
rates at issue for the 12 less competitive markets were just and reasonable and
that Williams Pipe Line must roll back those rates to pre-1990 levels and pay
refunds with interest to its shippers. The Initial Decision held that Williams
Pipe Line's individual rates must be judged on the basis of cost allocations,
although Williams Pipe Line was given no notice of this particular basis of
judgment and the Commission expressly declined to adopt such standards in its
Opinion No. 391. Moreover, the Commission clarified its final order in Phase I
(Opinion No. 391-A) by stating that Williams Pipe Line was not required to
defend its rates with cost allocations. Primarily on this basis, Williams Pipe
Line sought a review of the Initial Decision by the full Commission by filing a
brief on exceptions on June 28, 1996. The review of the Phase II Initial
Decision is pending before the Commission, and a shipper's appeal of the Phase I
order in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit
has been stayed pending the completion of Phase II. Williams Pipe Line is not
required to comply with the Initial Decision in Phase II prior to the
Commission's issuance of a final order. Williams Pipe Line continues to believe
that its revised tariffs will ultimately be found lawful. See Note 17 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
     Merchant Services. Management believes that WESCO's activities are
conducted in substantial compliance with the marketing affiliate rules of FERC
Order 497. Order 497 imposes certain nondiscrimination, disclosure, and
separation requirements upon interstate natural gas pipelines with respect to
their natural gas trading affiliates. WESCO has taken steps to ensure it does
not share employees with affiliated interstate natural gas pipelines and does
not receive information from such affiliates that is not also available to
unaffiliated natural gas trading companies.
 
COMPETITION
 
     Exploration and Production. Williams Energy's exploration and production
unit competes with a wide variety of independent producers as well as integrated
oil and gas companies for markets for its production.
 
     Field Services. Williams Energy competes for gathering and processing
business with interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers, and independent
gatherers and processors. Numerous factors impact any given customer's choice of
a gathering or processing services provider, including rate, term, timeliness of
well connections, pressure obligations, and the willingness of the provider to
process for either a fee or for liquids taken in-kind.
 
     Petroleum Services. Williams Energy's petroleum services operations are
subject to competition because Williams Pipe Line operates without the
protection of a federal certificate of public convenience and necessity that
might preclude other entrants from providing like service in its area of
operations. Further, Williams Pipe Line must plan, operate and compete without
the operating stability inherent in a broad base of contractually obligated or
owner-controlled usage. Because Williams Pipe Line is a common carrier, its
shippers need only meet the requirements set forth in its published tariffs in
order to avail themselves of the transportation services offered by Williams
Pipe Line.
 
     Competition exists from other pipelines, refineries, barge traffic,
railroads, and tank trucks. Competition is affected by trades of products or
crude oil between refineries that have access to the system and by trades among
brokers, traders and others who control products. Such trades can result in the
diversion from the Williams Pipe Line system of volume that might otherwise be
transported on the system. Shorter, lower revenue hauls may also result from
such trades. Williams Pipe Line also is exposed to interfuel competition whereby
an energy form shipped by a liquids pipeline, such as heating fuel, is replaced
by a form not transported by a liquids pipeline, such as electricity or natural
gas. While Williams Pipe Line faces competition from a variety of sources
throughout its marketing areas, the principal competition is other pipelines. A
number of pipeline systems, competing on a broad range of price and service
levels, provide transportation service to various areas served by the system.
The possible construction of additional competing products or crude oil
pipelines, conversions of crude oil or natural gas pipelines to products
transportation, changes in refining capacity, refinery closings, changes in the
availability of crude oil to refineries located in its marketing area, or
conservation and conversion efforts by fuel consumers may adversely affect the
volumes available for transportation by Williams Pipe Line.
 
     Williams Energy's ethanol operations compete in local, regional, and
national fuel additive markets with one large ethanol producer, numerous smaller
ethanol producers, and other fuel additive producers, such as refineries.
 
     Merchant Services. Williams Energy's merchant services operations directly
compete with large independent energy marketers, marketing affiliates of
regulated pipelines and utilities, electric wholesalers and retailers, and
natural gas producers. The financial trading business competes with other
energy-based companies offering similar services as well as certain brokerage
houses. This level of competition contributes to a business environment of
constant pricing and margin pressure.
 
OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
 
     The majority of Williams Energy's ownership interests in exploration and
production properties are held as working interests in oil and gas leaseholds.
 

 
     Williams Energy's gathering and processing facilities are owned in fee.
Gathering systems are constructed and maintained pursuant to rights-of-way,
easements, permits, licenses, and consents on and across properties owned by
others. The compressor stations and gas processing and treating facilities are
located in whole or in part on lands owned by subsidiaries of Williams Energy or
on sites held under leases or permits issued or approved by public authorities.
 
     Williams Energy's petroleum pipeline system is owned in fee. However, a
substantial portion of the system is operated, constructed and maintained
pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses, or consents on and
across properties owned by others. The terminals, pump stations, and all other
facilities of the system are located on lands owned in fee or on lands held
under long-term leases, permits, or contracts. Management believes that the
system is in such a condition and maintained in such a manner that it is
adequate and sufficient for the conduct of business.
 
     The primary assets of Williams Energy's merchant services unit are its term
contracts, employees, and related systems and technological support.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
     Williams Energy is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and
regulations relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that
Williams Energy's operations are in substantial compliance with existing
environmental legal requirements. Management expects that compliance with such
existing environmental legal requirements will not have a material adverse
effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position of
Williams Energy.
 
     The EPA has named Williams Pipe Line as a potentially responsible party as
defined in Section 107(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act, for a site in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The
EPA placed this site on the National Priorities List in July 1990. In April
1991, Williams Pipe Line and the EPA executed an administrative consent order
under which Williams Pipe Line agreed to conduct a remedial investigation and
feasibility study for this site. The EPA issued its "No Action" Record of
Decision in 1994, concluding that there were no significant hazards associated
with the site subject to two additional years of monitoring for arsenic in
certain existing monitoring wells. Williams Pipe Line should complete monitoring
in the second quarter of 1997.
 
WILLIAMS COMMUNICATIONS GROUP, INC. (WILLIAMS COMMUNICATIONS GROUP)
 
     The Company organized the reporting for its communications operations under
a single communications reporting entity in 1996 and has reported such
operations for financial reporting purposes on a consolidated basis since the
third quarter of 1996. Management believes that the new structure will better
position it to provide total enterprise network solutions and superior customer
service on a global basis. In addition, management believes this structure will
facilitate growth and diversification while recognizing the convergence of
customers, markets and product offerings of its communications entities.
Management also believes the combination creates a vehicle to better establish
name recognition and presence in the communications industry.
 
     The new entity, Williams Communications Group, Inc. ("Williams
Communications Group"), is comprised of four major business units: Williams
Telecommunications Systems, Inc.; Vyvx, Inc.; Global Access Telecommunications
Services, Inc. (formerly known as ITC mediaConferencing Company); and Williams
Learning Network, Inc. Through its business units, Williams Communications Group
provides customer-premise voice and data equipment, including installation and
maintenance; advertising distribution; network integration and management
services; video services and other multimedia services for the broadcasting
industry; broadcast facsimile, audio- and videoconferencing services for
businesses; and interactive, computer-based training programs and services for a
variety of industries.
 
     In March 1997, Williams Communications Group acquired the stock of Critical
Technologies, Incorporated, a network systems integrator that designs, builds,
implements, and maintains large-scale business communications systems.
 

 
     Williams Communications Group, through its subsidiaries, owns approximately
11,000 fiber miles of fiber-optic network, approximately 53 television switching
centers, more than 1,300 fully equipped service vehicles, and 120 sales and
services locations nationwide plus international offices serving Europe, South
America and the Pacific Rim. In addition, Williams Communications Group owns or
manages five teleports in the United States and has rights to capacity on
domestic and international satellite transponders. Williams Communications Group
employed approximately 4,300 employees as of December 31, 1996.
 
     Consolidated revenues by business unit and operating profit for Williams
Communications Group for 1996 were as follows (dollars in millions):
 

 
     A business description of each of Williams Communications Group's business
units follows.
 
     WILLIAMS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS, INC. (WILTEL)
 
     WilTel provides data, voice and video communications products and services
to a wide variety of customers nationally. WilTel serves its customers through
more than 100 sales and service locations throughout the United States, over
3,100 employees and over 1,300 stocked service vehicles. WilTel employs more
than 1,400 technicians and more than 500 sales representatives and sales support
personnel to serve an estimated 41,000 commercial, governmental and
institutional customer sites. WilTel's customer base ranges from large,
publicly-held corporations and the federal government to small privately-owned
entities.
 
     WilTel offers its customers a full array of data, multimedia, voice and
video network interconnect products including digital key systems (generally
designed for voice applications with fewer than 100 lines), private branch
exchange (PBX) systems (generally designed for voice applications with greater
than 100 lines), voice processing systems, interactive voice response systems,
automatic call distribution applications, call accounting systems, network
monitoring and management systems, desktop video, routers, channel banks,
intelligent hubs and cabling. WilTel's services also include the design,
configuration and installation of voice and data networks and the management of
customers' telecommunications operations and facilities. WilTel's National
Technical Resource Center provides customers with on-line order entry and
trouble reporting services, advanced technical assistance and training. Other
service capabilities include Local Area Network and PBX remote monitoring and
toll fraud detection.
 
     In 1994, WilTel acquired BellSouth's customer premise equipment sales and
service operations in 29 states outside of BellSouth's local operating region in
the nine southeastern-most states and Jackson Voice Data, a New York City-based
customer premise equipment company. In 1996, WilTel acquired Comlink, Inc., a
Marlborough, Massachusetts, based voice and network systems integrator. Comlink
services approximately 5,000 customers in Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Connecticut. Also in 1996, WilTel acquired
SoftIRON Systems, Inc., a network systems integrator based in California.
SoftIRON works with organizations to design, procure, install and support
complex data systems. SoftIRON maintains more than 200 sites with high-speed
data switches, 5,000 remote access ports and extensive networks managing more
than 15,000 devices. These acquisitions have enabled WilTel to capitalize on its
existing infrastructure, strengthen its national market presence and geographic
customer density and has provided more diversity in product offerings.
 

 
     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes the results of
operations for the periods indicated (dollars and ports in millions):
 

 
     A port is defined as an electronic address resident in a customer's PBX or
key system that supports a station, trunk or data port.
 
     In 1996, WilTel derived approximately 59.7 percent of its revenues from its
existing customer base and approximately 40.3 percent from the sale of new
telecommunications systems. WilTel's three largest suppliers accounted for
approximately 86 percent of equipment sold in 1996. A single manufacturer
supplied 73 percent of all equipment sold. In this case, WilTel is the largest
independent distributor in the United States of certain of this company's
products. About 63 percent of WilTel's active customer base consists of this
manufacturer's products. The distribution agreement with this supplier is
scheduled to expire at the end of 2000. Management believes there is minimal
risk as to the availability of products from suppliers.
 
     VYVX, INC. (VYVX)
 
     Vyvx offers broadcast-quality television and multimedia transmission
services nationwide by means of its 11,000-mile fiber optic cable system,
satellite uplink/downlink facilities and satellite transponder capacity. Vyvx
fiber primarily provides backhaul or point-to-point transmission of sports, news
and other programming between two or more customer locations. With satellite
facilities, Vyvx provides point-to-multipoint transmission service. Vyvx's
customers include all of the major broadcast and cable networks. Vyvx is also
engaged in the business of advertising distribution and is exploring other
multimedia communication opportunities through its fiber optic network.
 
     In 1996, Vyvx acquired four teleports (including satellite earth station
facilities) from ICG Wireless Services. The teleports are located in Atlanta,
Denver, Los Angeles and New York (Carteret, New Jersey). Also in 1996, Vyvx
acquired Global Access Telecommunications Services, Inc., a reseller of
worldwide video transmission services, which resulted in the management of a
fifth teleport in Kansas City. The business television operations were
transferred to ITC mediaConferencing, and Vyvx continues to operate the
satellite and transponder facilities of the former Global Access. As discussed
below, ITC mediaConferencing has adopted the Global Access name. These
acquisitions enabled Vyvx to become a full-service fiber-optic and satellite
video transmission provider.
 
     In November and December, 1996, respectively, Vyvx acquired the assets of
Cycle-Sat, Inc. and Viacom MGS Services Inc., both distributors of television
advertising. These acquisitions provide connectivity and presence in more than
550 television broadcast stations around the country.
 
     Under an agreement with IXC Communications entered into in the fourth
quarter 1996, Vyvx will build a 1,600-mile fiber-optic network from Houston to
Washington, D.C., in proximity to pipeline right-of-way owned by an affiliated
company. Vyvx will then exchange rights to use a portion of the unlit fiber for
usage rights to IXC's existing 4,500-mile Los Angeles-to-New York route. It is
estimated that by mid-1998, Vyvx will have added 6,100 miles of new,
unrestricted network to its existing 11,000-mile system, which is limited to
multimedia applications.
 

 
     WILLIAMS LEARNING NETWORK, INC. (WILLIAMS LEARNING NETWORK)
 
     Williams Learning Network, formerly Williams Knowledge Systems, provides
multimedia-based training products for the chemical, refining, utility and
manufacturing industries. Williams Learning Network serves approximately 6,500
customers in these industries.
 
     In December 1996, Williams Learning Network announced the formation of a
joint venture with the Public Broadcast Service to utilize Internet,
video-on-demand, fiber-optic and satellite technologies to bring professional
development and training services to the business community. The 20-year
agreement provides for a management committee to operate the new entity.
 
     GLOBAL ACCESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS, INC. (GLOBAL ACCESS)
       (FORMERLY ITC MEDIACONFERENCING COMPANY)
 
     In October 1995, a business unit of Williams Communications Group acquired
a 22 percent interest in ITC mediaConferencing Company ("ITC") and acquired the
remaining interest in ITC in 1996. ITC, which has changed its name to Global
Access, offers multi-point videoconferencing, audioconferencing and enhanced fax
services as well as single point to multi-point business television services.
The acquisition enables Williams Communications Group to provide customers with
integrated media conferences, bringing together voice, video and facsimile by
utilizing Williams Communications Group's existing fiber-optic and satellite
services.
 
     In March 1997, Global Access acquired Satellite Management, Inc., a systems
integrator for business television and provider of other satellite-based
services.
                             ---------------------
REGULATORY MATTERS
 
     The equipment WilTel sells must meet the requirements of Part 68 of the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules governing the equipment
registration, labeling and connection of equipment to telephone networks. WilTel
relies on the equipment manufacturers' compliance with these requirements for
its own compliance regarding the equipment it distributes. A subsidiary of
WilTel, which provides intrastate microwave communications services for a
Federal agency, is subject to FCC regulations as a common carrier microwave
licensee. These regulations have a minimal impact on WilTel's operations.
 
     Vyvx is subject to FCC regulations as a common carrier with regard to
certain of its transmission services and is subject to the laws of certain
states governing public utilities. An FCC rulemaking to eliminate domestic,
common carrier tariffs has been stayed pending judicial review. In the interim,
the FCC is requiring such carriers to operate under traditional tariff rules.
Operations of satellite earth stations and certain other related transmission
facilities are also subject to FCC licensing and other regulations. These
regulations do not significantly impact Vyvx's operations.
 
COMPETITION
 
     WilTel has many competitors ranging from Lucent Technologies and the
Regional Bell Operating Companies to small individually-owned companies that
sell and service customer premise equipment. Competitors include companies that
sell equipment comparable or identical to that sold by WilTel. There are
virtually no barriers to entry into this market.
 
     Vyvx's video and multimedia transmission operations compete primarily with
companies offering video or multimedia transmission services by means of
satellite facilities and to a lesser degree with companies offering transmission
services via microwave facilities or fiber-optic cable.
 
     Federal telecommunications reform legislation enacted in February 1996 is
designed to increase competition both in the long distance market and local
exchange market by significantly liberalizing current restrictions on market
entry. In particular, the legislation establishes procedures permitting Regional
Bell Operating Companies to provide long distance services including, but not
limited to, video transmission services, subject to certain restrictions and
conditions precedent. Moreover, electric and gas utilities may
 

 
provide telecommunications services, including long distance services, through
separate subsidiaries. The legislation also calls for tariff forbearance and
relaxation of regulation over common carriers. At this time, management cannot
predict the impact such legislation may have on the operations of Williams
Communications Group.
 
  OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY
 
     Vyvx owns part of its fiber-optic transmission facilities and leases the
remainder. Vyvx carries signals by means of its own fiber-optics facilities, as
well as carrying signals over fiber-optic facilities leased from third-party
interexchange carriers and the various local exchange carriers. Vyvx holds its
satellite transponder capacity under various agreements. Vyvx owns part of its
teleport facilities and holds the remainder under either a management agreement
or long-term facilities leases.
 
  ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
     Williams Communications Group is subject to federal, state and local laws
and regulations relating to the environmental aspects of its business.
Management believes that Williams Communications Group's operations are in
substantial compliance with existing environmental legal requirements.
Management expects that compliance with such existing environmental legal
requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the capital
expenditures, earnings and competitive position of Williams Communications
Group.
 
                               OTHER INFORMATION
 
     Williams believes that it has adequate sources and availability of raw
materials to assure the continued supply of its services and products for
existing and anticipated business needs. Williams' pipeline systems are all
regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on the investments
made in the systems being limited to standards permitted by the regulatory
bodies. Each of the pipeline systems has ongoing capital requirements for
efficiency and mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also
necessitating periodic capital outlays.
 
     A plant site in Pensacola, Florida, that was previously operated by a
former subsidiary of Williams, has been placed on the National Priorities List.
This former subsidiary has also been identified as a potentially responsible
party at a National Priorities List cleanup site in Michigan. A third site,
located in Lakeland, Florida, which was formerly owned and operated by this
subsidiary, is under investigation by the Florida Department of Environmental
Protection and cleanup is anticipated. Williams does not believe that the
ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after
consideration of insurance coverage, contribution or other indemnification
arrangements, will have a material adverse financial effect on the Company. See
Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     At December 31, 1996, the Company had approximately 11,000 full-time
employees, of whom approximately 1,200 were represented by unions and covered by
collective bargaining agreements. The Company considers its relations with its
employees to be generally good.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
 
     Certain matters discussed in this report, excluding historical information,
include forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes such
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can
be given that every objective will be reached. Such statements are made in
reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
     As required by such Act, the Company hereby identifies the following
important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from any
results projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted by the Company in
forward-looking statements: (i) risks and uncertainties impacting the Company as
a whole primarily relate to changes in general economic conditions in the United
States; changes in laws and regulations to which the Company is subject,
including tax, environmental and employment laws and regulations; the cost and
effects of legal and administrative claims and proceedings against the Company
or its
 

 
subsidiaries or which may be brought against the Company or its subsidiaries;
conditions of the capital markets utilized by the Company to access capital to
finance operations; and, to the extent the Company increases its investments and
activities abroad, such investments and activities will be subject to foreign
economies, laws, and regulations; (ii) for the Company's regulated businesses,
risks and uncertainties primarily relate to the impact of future federal and
state regulation of business activities, including allowed rates of return; and
(iii) risks and uncertainties associated with the Company's unregulated
businesses primarily relate to the ability of such entities to develop expanded
markets and product offerings as well as maintaining existing markets. It is
also possible that certain aspects of the Company's businesses that are
currently unregulated may be subject to both federal and state regulation in the
future. In addition, future utilization of pipeline capacity will depend on
energy prices, competition from other pipelines and alternate fuels, the general
level of natural gas and petroleum product demand and weather conditions, among
other things. Further, gas prices which directly impact transportation and
gathering and processing throughput and operating profits may fluctuate in
unpredictable ways as may corn prices, which directly affect the Company's
ethanol business. It is also not possible to predict which of many possible
future products and service offerings will be important to maintaining a
competitive position in the communications business or what expenditures will be
required to develop and provide such products and services.
 
(D) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
     Williams has no significant foreign operations.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     See Item 1(c) for description of properties.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     Other than as described under Item 1 -- Business and in Note 17 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, there are no material pending legal
proceedings. Williams is subject to ordinary routine litigation incidental to
its businesses.
 
     Subsequent Developments. On February 27, 1997, FERC issued Order 636-C in
response to the court's remand affirming that pipelines may recover all of their
gas supply realignment costs but requiring pipelines to individually propose the
percentage of such costs to be allocated to interruptible transportation
services, instead of a uniform 10 percent allocation. The order also
prospectively relaxes the eligibility requirements for receiving no-notice
service and reduces the right of first refusal matching period from 20 years to
five years. Order 636-C is still subject to potential rehearing at FERC.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF WILLIAMS
 
     The names, ages, positions and earliest election dates of the executive
officers of Williams are:
 

 
     All of the above officers have been employed by Williams or its
subsidiaries as officers or otherwise for more than five years and have had no
other employment during such period.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
        AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     Williams' Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Stock
Exchanges under the symbol "WMB." At the close of business on December 31, 1996,
Williams had 12,386 holders of record of its Common Stock. The daily closing
price ranges (composite transactions) and dividends declared by quarter for each
of the past two years (adjusted to reflect the three-for-two stock split
discussed below) are as follows:
 

 
     On December 30, 1996, the Company distributed one share of Common Stock of
the Company, $1 par value, for every two shares of Common Stock outstanding on
December 6, 1996, pursuant to a three-for-two stock split.
 
     Terms of certain subsidiaries' borrowing arrangements limit transfer of
funds to Williams. These terms have not impeded, nor are they expected to in the
future, Williams' ability to meet its cash obligations.
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The following financial data are an integral part of, and should be read in
conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.
Information concerning significant trends in the financial condition and results
of operations is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations on pages F-1 through F-9 of this report.
 

 
- ---------------
 
  * See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
    significant asset sales and write-off of project costs in 1996, 1995 and
    1994. Income from continuing operations in 1993 includes a pre-tax gain of
    $51.6 million as a result of the sale of 6.1 million units in the Williams
    Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust and a pre-tax gain of $45.9 million as a result
    of the sale of its intrastate natural gas pipeline system and other related
    assets in Louisiana.
 
 ** See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
    the 1995 gain on the sale of discontinued operations. Amounts prior to 1995
    reflect operating results for the network services operations.
 
*** Per-share amounts have been restated to reflect the effect of the December
    30, 1996, 3-for-2 common stock split and distribution as discussed in Note
    14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS
       OF OPERATIONS
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  1996 vs. 1995
 
     Northwest Pipeline's revenues increased $14.5 million, or 6 percent, due
primarily to increased transportation rates, effective February 1, 1996,
associated with the expansion of mainline capacity placed into service on
December 1, 1995. In addition, $9 million of revenue in 1996 associated with
reserve reversals and favorable regulatory decisions was more than offset by the
effect of the 1995 reversal of approximately $16 million of accrued liabilities
for estimated rate refund accruals. Total throughput increased 8 TBtu, or 1
percent. Operating profit increased $9.2 million, or 8 percent, due primarily to
increased transportation rates associated with the expansion of mainline
capacity, and the reserve reversals and favorable regulatory decisions.
Partially offsetting were higher depreciation expense associated with the
mainline expansion and the approximate $11 million net favorable effect of two
1995 reserve accrual adjustments. The 1995 reserve accrual adjustments included
a $16 million favorable adjustment of rate refund accruals based on a favorable
rate case order, partially offset by a loss accrual (included in other
income -- net) in connection with a lawsuit involving a former transportation
customer.
 
     Williams Natural Gas' revenues increased $4.1 million, or 2 percent, due
primarily to increased transportation revenue resulting from new tariff rates
that became effective August 1, 1995. Total throughput increased 6.9 TBtu, or 2
percent. Operating profit was substantially the same as the prior year as the
effect of a $4 million 1995 reversal of a regulatory accrual was offset by new
tariff rates that became effective August 1, 1995.
 
                                       F-1

 
     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's (Transco) revenues increased $35.1
million, or 5 percent, due primarily to higher natural gas transportation
revenues and liquids and liquefiable transportation revenues of $20 million and
$9 million, respectively. Additionally, revenue for 1996 reflects a full year of
operations compared with 1995, which reflected operations from January 18, 1995,
when Williams acquired a majority interest in Transco Energy. Revenues
associated with the period January 1 through January 17, 1995, were
approximately $36 million. Offsetting these increases were lower revenues
resulting from lower transportation costs charged to Transco by others and
passed through to customers as provided in Transco's rates. Transportation
revenues increased due primarily to increased long-haul throughput, which
benefitted from a two-phase system expansion placed in service in late 1996 and
late 1995, and new rates effective September 1, 1995, which allowed the
passthrough of increased costs. Total throughput increased 176.1 TBtu, or 12
percent, due primarily to a full year of operations in 1996 compared to a
partial year in 1995. Operating profit increased $29.6 million, or 18 percent,
due primarily to increased transportation revenues, lower general and
administrative expenses and a full year of operations in 1996, partially offset
by higher operation and maintenance expenses and higher taxes other than income
taxes.
 
     Texas Gas Transmission's revenues and operating profit increased $29.8
million, or 11 percent, and $21.1 million, or 33 percent, respectively, due
primarily to new rates that became effective April 1, 1995, and an adjustment to
regulatory accruals based upon a recent rate case settlement. Also, 1995
reflected operations from January 18, when Williams acquired a majority interest
in Transco Energy. Revenues associated with the period January 1 through January
17, 1995, were $16 million. Total throughput increased 141.1 TBtu, or 22
percent, due primarily to a full year of operations in 1996 compared to a
partial year in 1995 and the impact of a colder winter in 1996.
 
     Kern River Gas Transmission's (Kern River) remaining interest was acquired
by Williams on January 16, 1996. Revenues and operating profit amounts for 1996
include the operating results of Kern River since the acquisition date. Kern
River's revenues were $160.6 million for 1996, while costs and operating
expenses were $35 million, selling, general and administrative expenses were $13
million and operating profit was $113 million. Prior to the acquisition,
Williams accounted for its 50 percent ownership in Kern River using the equity
method of accounting, with its share of equity earnings recorded in investing
income. Throughput was 269.9 TBtu during 1996 (for the period subsequent to the
acquisition date). Throughput for 1996 is comparable to 1995.
 
     Field Services' revenues increased $83.4 million, or 16 percent, due
primarily to higher natural gas liquids sales revenues of $64 million combined
with higher gathering and processing revenues of $6 million and $13 million,
respectively. Natural gas liquids sales revenues increased due to a 36 percent
increase in volumes combined with higher average prices. Gathering and
processing volumes each increased 19 percent while average gathering rates
decreased. Costs and operating expenses increased $52 million, or 15 percent,
due primarily to higher fuel and replacement gas purchases, expanded facilities
and increased operations. Other income -- net for 1996 includes a $20 million
gain from the property insurance coverage associated with construction of
replacement gathering facilities and $6 million of gains from the sale of two
small gathering systems, partially offset by $5 million of environmental
remediation accruals. Other income -- net for 1995 includes $20 million in
operating profit from a favorable resolution of contingency issues involving
previously regulated gathering and processing assets. Operating profit increased
$26.4 million, or 16 percent, due primarily to higher natural gas liquids
margins and higher gathering and processing revenues, partially offset by higher
costs and operating expenses. Operating profit was favorably impacted in both
1996 and 1995 by approximately $20 million of other income.
 
     Merchant Services' revenues increased $107.6 million, or 70 percent, due
primarily to higher natural gas and gas liquids marketing, price-risk management
activities and petroleum product marketing of $77 million, $24 million and $18
million, respectively, partially offset by lower contract origination revenues
of $10 million. Natural gas and gas liquids marketing revenues increased due to
higher marketing volumes and prices. In addition, net physical trading revenues
increased $3 million, due to a 19 percent increase in natural gas physical
trading volumes from 754 TBtu to 896 TBtu largely offset by lower physical
trading margins. Costs and operating expenses increased $73 million, or 94
percent, due primarily to higher natural gas purchase volumes and prices.
Operating profit increased $33.2 million, or 100 percent, due primarily to
higher price-risk
 
                                       F-2

 
management revenues, a reduction of development costs associated with its
information products business and increased natural gas marketing volumes.
Partially offsetting were higher selling, general and administrative expenses
and lower contract origination revenues resulting from the impact of profits
realized from certain long-term natural gas supply obligations in 1995. Merchant
Services' price-risk management and trading activities are subject to risk from
changes in energy commodity market prices, the portfolio position of its
financial instruments and physical commitments, and credit risk. Merchant
Services manages risk by maintaining its portfolio within established trading
policy guidelines.
 
     Petroleum Services' revenues increased $165.2 million, or 50 percent, due
primarily to an increase in transportation activities and ethanol sales of $31
million and $133 million, respectively. Revenues from transportation activities
increased due primarily to a 10 percent increase in shipments and a $14 million
increase in product sales. Shipments increased as a result of new business and
the 1995 impacts of unfavorable weather conditions and a fire at a truck-loading
rack. Average length of haul and transportation rate per barrel were slightly
below 1995 due primarily to shorter haul movements. Ethanol revenues increased
following the August 1995 acquisition of Pekin Energy and the fourth-quarter
1995 completion of the Aurora plant. Costs and operating expenses increased $155
million, or 68 percent, due primarily to a full year of ethanol production
activities. Operating profit increased $6.5 million, or 9 percent, due primarily
to increased shipments, partially offset by lower ethanol margins and production
levels as a result of record high corn prices.
 
     Exploration and Production's revenues increased $19.5 million, or 31
percent, due primarily to higher revenues from the marketing of production from
the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (Royalty Trust) and increased
production revenues of $9 million and $8 million, respectively. The increase in
marketing revenues reflects both increased volumes and higher average gas
prices. The increase in production revenues reflects higher average gas prices.
Costs and operating expenses increased $18 million due primarily to higher
Royalty Trust natural gas purchase costs. Other income -- net in 1995 includes
an $8 million loss accrual for a future minimum price natural gas commitment.
Operating profit increased $8.7 million to $2.8 million in 1996 due primarily to
the effect of the $8 million 1995 loss accrual.
 
     Williams Communications Group's revenues increased $172.4 million, or 32
percent, due primarily to the 1996 acquisitions which contributed revenues of
$95 million. Additionally, increased business activity resulted in a $36 million
revenue increase in new systems sales and a $16 million increase in digital
fiber television services. The number of ports in service at December 31, 1996,
increased 8 percent and billable minutes from occasional service increased 16
percent. Dedicated service voice-grade equivalent miles at December 31, 1996,
decreased 6 percent as compared with December 31, 1995, which in part reflects a
shift to occasional service. Costs and operating expenses increased $126
million, or 31 percent, and selling, general and administrative expenses
increased $63 million, or 62 percent, due primarily to the overall increase in
business activity and higher expenses for developing additional products and
services, including the cost of integrating the most recent acquisitions.
Operating profit decreased $18.4 million, or 74 percent, due primarily to the
expenses of developing additional products and services along with integrating
the most recent acquisitions.
 
     General corporate expenses increased $3.7 million, or 10 percent, due
primarily to higher employee compensation expense and consulting fees, partially
offset by the effect of a $5 million contribution in 1995 to The Williams
Companies Foundation. Interest accrued increased $82 million, or 30 percent, due
primarily to higher borrowing levels including debt associated with the January
1996 acquisition of the remaining interest in Kern River (see Note 2), slightly
offset by lower average interest rates. Interest capitalized decreased $7.6
million, or 53 percent, due primarily to lower capital expenditures for
gathering and processing facilities and the 1995 completion of Northwest
Pipeline's mainline expansion. Investing income decreased $75.1 million, or 80
percent, due primarily to the effect of interest earned in 1995 on the invested
portion of the cash proceeds from the sale of Williams' network services
operations, a $15 million dividend in 1995 from Texasgulf Inc. (sold in 1995),
and $31 million lower equity earnings from Williams' 50 percent ownership in
Kern River. Kern River's 1996 operating results are included in operating profit
since the acquisition date (see Note 2). The 1996 gain on sales of assets
results from the sale of certain communication rights. The 1995 loss on sales of
assets results from the sale of the 15 percent interest in Texasgulf Inc. The
1995 write-off of project costs results from the cancellation of an underground
coal gasification project in Wyoming (see Note 6). The $12 million favorable
change in other income (expense) -- net in 1996 is due primarily to the 1995
effect of
 
                                       F-3

 
approximately $10 million of minority interest expense associated with the
Transco merger and approximately $10 million of reserve reversals in 1996,
partially offset by higher environmental accruals of $4 million and additional
expense of international activities.
 
     The $81.1 million, or 79 percent, increase in the provision for income
taxes on continuing operations is primarily a result of higher pre-tax income
and a higher effective income tax rate. The increase in the effective income tax
rate is the result of the 1995 recognition of $29.8 million of previously
unrecognized tax benefits realized as a result of the sale of Texasgulf Inc.
(see Note 6). The effective income tax rate in 1996 is less than the federal
statutory rate due primarily to income tax credits from research activities and
coal-seam gas production, partially offset by the effects of state income taxes.
In addition, 1996 includes recognition of favorable adjustments totaling $13
million related to previously provided deferred income taxes on certain
regulated capital projects and state income tax adjustments related to 1995. The
effective income tax rate in 1995 is less than the federal statutory rate due
primarily to income tax credits from coal-seam gas production, partially offset
by the effects of state income taxes and minority interest. In addition, 1995
includes the previously unrecognized tax benefits related to the sale of
Texasgulf Inc. (see Note 6) and recognition of an $8 million income tax benefit
resulting from settlements with taxing authorities (see Note 7).
 
     On January 5, 1995, Williams sold its network services operations to LDDS
Communications, Inc. for $2.5 billion in cash. The sale yielded an after-tax
gain of approximately $1 billion, which is reported as income from discontinued
operations (see Note 3).
 
     Preferred stock dividends decreased $4.9 million, or 32 percent, due
primarily to the 1995 effect of a difference in the fair value of subordinated
debentures issued and the carrying value of the exchanged $2.21 cumulative
preferred stock (see Note 14).
 
  1995 vs. 1994
 
     Northwest Pipeline's revenues increased $16.7 million, or 7 percent, due
primarily to the $16 million reversal of a portion of certain rate refund
accruals and increased transportation rates put into effect in November 1994,
partially offset by the completion in 1994 of billing contract-reformation
surcharges. Mainline throughput increased 22 percent; however, revenues were not
significantly affected due to the effects of the straight-fixed-variable rate
design prescribed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Operating profit
increased $11.6 million, or 11 percent, due primarily to higher transportation
rates and the approximate $11 million net effect of two reserve accrual
adjustments, partially offset by $5 million, or 13 percent, higher operations
and maintenance expenses. The reserve accrual adjustments involved a $16 million
adjustment to rate refund accruals because of favorable rate case developments,
partially offset by a loss accrual (included in other income -- net) in
connection with a lawsuit involving a former transportation customer.
 
     Williams Natural Gas' revenues decreased $57 million, or 25 percent, and
costs and operating expenses decreased $62 million, or 40 percent, due primarily
to $36 million lower direct billing of purchased gas adjustments and lower
contract-reformation recovery of $21 million. Operating profit decreased $3.8
million, or 8 percent, due primarily to the effect of the 1994 reversal of
excess contract-reformation accruals of $7.4 million (included in other
income -- net) and $3.2 million from lower 1995 average firm reserved capacity,
partially offset by $4.6 million resulting from higher average firm reserved
capacity rates, effective August 1, 1995, and higher storage revenues of $3.7
million.
 
     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's revenues were $725.3 million in 1995,
while costs and expenses were $560 million and operating profit was $165
million. Throughput was 1,410.9 TBtu in 1995 (for the period subsequent to the
acquisition date). Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line placed new, higher rates into
effect September 1, 1995, subject to refund. Market-area deliveries in 1995 and
1994 were approximately the same.
 
     Texas Gas Transmission's revenues were $276.3 million in 1995, while costs
and expenses were $212 million and operating profit was $64 million. Throughput
was 653.4 TBtu in 1995 (for the period subsequent to the acquisition date).
Texas Gas placed new, higher rates into effect April 1, 1995, subject to refund.
 
                                       F-4

 
     Field Services' revenues increased $204.2 million, or 62 percent, due
primarily to $172 million higher gathering revenues. Gathering revenues
increased due primarily to a 102 percent increase in gathering volumes,
including $131 million attributable to Transco Energy's Gulf Coast gathering
operations, combined with an increase in average gathering prices, excluding
Gulf Coast operations. Liquids and processing volumes increased 6 percent and 4
percent, respectively. Costs and operating expenses increased $149 million, or
78 percent, and selling, general and administrative expenses increased $25
million, or 91 percent, with Transco Energy's activities contributing $102
million and $13 million, respectively. In addition, costs and operating expenses
increased due to expanded facilities. Other income -- net for 1995 includes $20
million in operating profit from the favorable resolution of contingency issues
involving previously regulated gathering and processing assets. Operating profit
increased $48.1 million, or 43 percent, primarily resulting from the $20 million
in other income and a doubling of gathering volumes, primarily a result of
Transco Energy's gathering activities. Operating profit in 1994 included
approximately $7 million in favorable settlements and adjustments of certain
prior period accruals, including income of $4 million from an adjustment to
operating taxes.
 
     Merchant Services' revenues and costs and operating expenses decreased
$228.2 million and $289 million, respectively. The addition of Transco Energy's
gas trading activities was more than offset by the reporting of 1995 natural gas
marketing activities on a net-margin basis (see Note 15) and $72 million in
lower petroleum services operations resulting from adverse market conditions.
Natural gas physical trading volumes increased to 754 TBtu in 1995 compared to
148 TBtu in 1994, primarily from the effect of the Transco Energy acquisition.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $28 million due primarily
to the increase in trading activity. Operating profit increased $29.8 million
from $3.4 million in 1994. Trading activities' operating profit increased $34
million, attributable primarily to income recognition from long-term natural gas
supply obligations and no-notice service provided to local distribution
companies. Included in trading activities is a price-risk management adjustment
of $4 million from the valuation of certain natural gas supply and sales
contracts previously excluded from trading activities. These increases were
partially offset by $6 million of loss provisions, primarily accruals for
contract disputes, and increased costs of supporting its information services
business.
 
     Petroleum Services' revenues increased $111.2 million, or 51 percent, due
to an increase in transportation activities and ethanol sales of $33 million and
$84 million, respectively. Revenue from transportation activities increased due
primarily to higher shipments and a $15 million increase in product sales.
Shipments, while 7 percent higher than 1994, were reduced by the November 1994
fire at a truck-loading rack and unfavorable weather conditions in the first
half of 1995. The average transportation rate per barrel and average length of
haul were slightly below 1994 due primarily to shorter haul movements. Ethanol
revenues increased following the acquisition of Pekin Energy in August 1995.
Costs and operating expenses increased $93 million, or 69 percent, due primarily
to increased operating expenses associated with transportation and ethanol
activities. Operating profit increased $17.3 million, or 33 percent, due
primarily to increased shipments, higher product sales margins of $4 million, $3
million related to the operations of Pekin Energy and the effect of $5 million
of costs in 1994 for evaluating and determining whether to build an oil refinery
near Phoenix.
 
     Exploration and Production's revenues increased $23.7 million, or 61
percent, due primarily to $35 million higher revenue from the marketing of
production from the Royalty Trust and a 14 percent increase in production
volumes, partially offset by a decrease in average gas sales prices. Costs and
operating expenses increased $33 million due primarily to higher Royalty Trust
natural gas purchase costs. Other income -- net in 1995 includes an $8 million
loss accrual for a future minimum price natural gas commitment. Operating profit
decreased $19.5 million to a $5.9 million operating loss in 1995 due primarily
to the $8 million loss accrual, lower average gas sales prices and $3 million
higher selling, general and administrative expenses.
 
     Williams Communications Group's revenues increased $122.3 million, or 29
percent, due primarily to $30 million from new systems, $28 million from
existing system enhancements, $37 million from contract maintenance, moves, adds
and changes, and $15 million in digital fiber television services. These amounts
include the effect of the acquisitions of BellSouth Communications Systems in
March 1994 and Jackson Voice Data, completed in October 1994. The number of
ports in service at December 31, 1995, increased 14 percent, billable minutes
from occasional service increased 110 percent and dedicated service voice-grade
 
                                       F-5

 
equivalent miles at December 31, 1995, increased 50 percent as compared with
December 31, 1994. Costs and operating expenses increased $84 million, or 26
percent, and selling, general and administrative expenses increased $21 million,
or 27 percent, due primarily to the overall increase in volume of sales and
services and higher expenses for developing additional products and services.
Operating profit increased $17.4 million from $7.6 million in 1994 due primarily
to increased activity in new system sales, enhancements to existing systems,
maintenance, digital television services and the full-year 1995 impact of two
1994 acquisitions.
 
     General corporate expenses increased $9.7 million, or 35 percent, due
primarily to a $6.4 million increase in charitable contributions, including $5
million to The Williams Companies Foundation. Interest accrued increased $132.1
million, or 91 percent, due primarily to the $2 billion outstanding debt assumed
as a result of the Transco Energy acquisition. Interest capitalized increased
$8.5 million, or 143 percent, due primarily to increased expenditures for
gathering and processing facilities and Northwest Pipeline's expansion projects.
Investing income increased $44.3 million, or 89 percent, due primarily to
interest earned on the invested portion of the cash proceeds from the sale of
Williams' network services operations in addition to an $11 million increase in
the dividend from Texasgulf Inc. The 1995 loss on sales of assets results from
the sale of the 15 percent interest in Texasgulf Inc. The 1994 gain on sales of
assets results from the sale of 3,461,500 limited partner common units in
Northern Border Partners, L.P. The 1995 write-off of project costs results from
the cancellation of an underground coal gasification project in Wyoming (see
Note 6). Other income (expense) -- net in 1995 includes approximately $10
million of minority interest expense associated with the Transco Energy merger,
$4 million of dividends on subsidiary preferred stock and $4 million of losses
on sales of receivables, partially offset by $11 million of equity allowance for
funds used during construction (AFUDC). Other income (expense) -- net in 1994
includes a credit for $4.8 million from the reversal of previously accrued
liabilities associated with certain Royalty Trust contingencies that expired.
Also included is approximately $4 million of expense related to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits," which relates to postemployment benefits being paid to
employees of companies previously sold.
 
     The $20.3 million, or 25 percent, increase in the provision for income
taxes on continuing operations is primarily a result of higher pre-tax income,
partially offset by a lower effective income tax rate resulting from $29.8
million of previously unrecognized tax benefits realized as a result of the sale
of Texasgulf Inc. (see Note 6) and an $8 million income tax benefit resulting
from settlements with taxing authorities. The effective income tax rate in 1995
is significantly less than the federal statutory rate, due primarily to the
previously unrecognized tax benefits realized as a result of the sale of the
investment in Texasgulf Inc., income tax credits from coal-seam gas production
and recognition of an $8 million income tax benefit resulting from settlements
with taxing authorities, partially offset by the effects of state income taxes
and minority interest. The effective income tax rate in 1994 is lower than the
statutory rate primarily because of income tax credits from coal-seam gas
production, partially offset by state income taxes (see Note 7).
 
     On January 5, 1995, Williams sold its network services operations to LDDS
Communications, Inc. for $2.5 billion in cash. The sale yielded an after-tax
gain of approximately $1 billion, which is reported as income from discontinued
operations. Prior period operating results for the network services operations
are reported as discontinued operations (see Note 3).
 
     The 1994 extraordinary loss results from the early extinguishment of debt
(see Note 8).
 
     Preferred stock dividends increased $6.5 million as a result of the May
1995 issuance of 2.5 million shares of Williams $3.50 cumulative convertible
preferred stock in exchange for Transco Energy's $3.50 cumulative convertible
preferred stock (see Note 14) in addition to the $3.5 million premium on
exchange of $2.21 cumulative preferred stock for debentures.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY
 
  Liquidity
 
     Williams considers its liquidity to come from two sources: internal
liquidity, consisting of available cash investments, and external liquidity,
consisting of borrowing capacity from available bank-credit facilities,
 
                                       F-6

 
which can be utilized without limitation under existing loan covenants. At
December 31, 1996, Williams had access to $550 million of liquidity representing
the available portion of its $1 billion bank-credit facility plus
cash-equivalent investments. This compares with liquidity of $656 million at
December 31, 1995, and $495 million at December 31, 1994. The decrease in 1996
is due primarily to additional borrowings under the bank-credit facility,
partially offset by a $200 million increase in the capacity of the bank-credit
facility (see Note 13). At December 31, 1996, $200 million in current debt
obligations have been classified as non-current obligations based on Williams'
intent and ability to refinance on a long-term basis. At December 31, 1996, the
amount available on the $1 billion bank-credit facility of $500 million is
sufficient to complete these refinancings. In January 1997, Williams filed a
$200 million shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission to issue trust preferred securities. During 1996, Williams Holdings
of Delaware, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Williams, filed a $400 million
shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
issued $250 million of debt securities. During 1993, Williams filed a $300
million shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, increasing the total amount available to $400 million. The
registration statement may be used to issue Williams common or preferred stock,
preferred stock purchase rights, debt securities, warrants to purchase Williams
common stock or warrants to purchase debt securities. In addition, short-term
uncommitted bank lines are utilized in managing liquidity. Williams believes any
additional financing arrangements can be obtained on reasonable terms if
required.
 
     Williams had a net working-capital deficit of $309 million at December 31,
1996, compared with $715 million at December 31, 1995. Williams manages its
borrowings to keep cash and cash equivalents at a minimum and has relied on
bank-credit facilities to provide flexibility for its cash needs. As a result,
it historically has reported negative working capital. The decrease in the
working-capital deficit at December 31, 1996, as compared to the prior year-end
is primarily a result of higher 1996 levels of receivables.
 
     Terms of certain borrowing agreements limit transfer of funds to Williams
from its subsidiaries. The restrictions have not impeded, nor are they expected
to impede, Williams' ability to meet its cash requirements in the future.
 
     During 1997, Williams expects to finance capital expenditures, investments
and working-capital requirements through cash generated from operations and the
use of the available portion of its $1 billion bank-credit facility, short-term
uncommitted bank lines or public debt/equity offerings.
 
  Operating Activities
 
     Cash provided by operating activities was: 1996 -- $710 million;
1995 -- $829 million; and 1994 -- $349 million. The increase in receivables,
commodity trading assets and accounts payable is due primarily to increased
trading activities by Williams Energy Group's Merchant Services. The increase in
property, plant and equipment primarily reflects the consolidation of Kern River
following the January 1996 acquisition (see Note 2).
 
  Financing Activities
 
     Net cash provided (used) by financing activities was: 1996 -- $734 million;
1995 -- ($1.4) billion; and 1994 -- $50 million. Long-term debt proceeds, net of
principal payments were $609 million during 1996. Long-term debt principal
payments net of debt proceeds were $610 million during 1995. Long-term debt
proceeds, net of principal payments and early extinguishment of debt were $24
million during 1994. The increase in net new borrowings during 1996 was
primarily to fund capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions of
businesses.
 
     The majority of the proceeds from issuance of common stock in 1996 resulted
from Williams benefit plan stock purchases and exercise of stock options under
Williams' stock plan. The 1995 proceeds from issuance of common stock includes
$46.2 million from the sale of 1.8 million shares of Williams common stock, held
by a subsidiary of Williams and previously classified as treasury stock in the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, in addition to Williams benefit plan stock purchases
and exercise of stock options under Williams' stock plans.
 
                                       F-7

 
The majority of the proceeds from issuance of common stock in 1994 resulted from
Williams benefit plan stock purchases and exercise of stock options under
Williams' stock plan (see Note 14).
 
     The 1996 purchases of Williams' treasury stock include 957,750 shares of
common stock on the open market for $31 million. The Williams board of directors
has authorized up to $800 million of such purchases. During 1994, Williams and
one of its subsidiaries purchased 20.7 million shares of Williams common stock
on the open market for $407 million. Substantially all of the purchases were
financed with a $400 million bank-credit agreement. In 1995, the outstanding
amounts under the credit agreement were repaid from the proceeds of the sale of
Williams' network services operations, and the credit agreement was terminated.
Williams also repurchased 96,300, 142,800 and 258,800 shares of its $2.21
cumulative preferred stock on the open market for $3 million, $4 million and $6
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
     On January 18, 1995, Williams acquired 60 percent of Transco Energy's
outstanding common stock in a cash tender offer for $430.5 million. Williams
acquired the remaining 40 percent of Transco Energy's outstanding common stock
on May 1, 1995, through a merger by exchanging the remaining Transco Energy
common stock for approximately 15.6 million shares of Williams common stock
valued at $334 million. Additionally, $2.3 billion in preferred stock and debt
obligations of Transco Energy was assumed by Williams. Williams made payments to
retire and/or terminate approximately $700 million of Transco Energy's
borrowings, preferred stock, interest-rate swaps and sale of receivable
facilities. As part of the merger, Williams exchanged Transco Energy's $3.50
cumulative convertible preferred stock for Williams' $3.50 cumulative
convertible preferred stock (see Note 2). The cash portion of the acquisition
and the payments to retire and/or terminate various Transco Energy facilities
were financed with the proceeds from the sale of Williams' network services
operations (see Note 3).
 
     During 1995, Williams exchanged 2.8 million shares of its $2.21 cumulative
preferred stock with a carrying value of $69 million for 9.6 percent debentures
with a fair value of $72.5 million (see Note 14).
 
     Long-term debt at December 31, 1996, was $4.4 billion, compared with $2.9
billion at December 31, 1995, and $1.3 billion at December 31, 1994. At December
31, 1996, $200 million in current debt obligations have been classified as
non-current obligations based on Williams' intent and ability to refinance on a
long-term basis. The 1996 increase in long-term debt is due primarily to the
$643 million outstanding debt assumed with the acquisition of Kern River (see
Note 2), $300 million in additional borrowings under the $1 billion bank-credit
facility and $250 million of debt issued by Williams Holdings. The 1995 increase
in long-term debt is due primarily to the $2 billion outstanding debt assumed as
a result of the Transco Energy acquisition. The long-term debt to
debt-plus-equity ratio was 56.1 percent at year-end, compared with 47.4 percent
and 46.5 percent at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Included in
long-term debt due within one year at December 31, 1994, was $350 million
outstanding under Williams' revolving credit facility.
 
     See Note 8 for information regarding early extinguishment of debt by
Williams and one of its subsidiaries during 1994.
 
  Investing Activities
 
     Net cash provided (used) by investing activities was: 1996 -- ($1.4)
billion; 1995 -- $585 million; and 1994 -- ($427) million. Capital expenditures
of pipeline subsidiaries, primarily to expand and modernize systems, were $441
million in 1996; $445 million in 1995; and $96 million in 1994. Expenditures in
1996 include Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's expansion; expenditures in 1995
include Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and Northwest Pipeline's expansions; and
expenditures in 1994 include Northwest Pipeline's additional mainline expansion.
Capital expenditures of Williams Energy Group, primarily to expand and modernize
gathering and processing facilities, were $292 million in 1996; $336 million in
1995; and $214 million in 1994. Capital expenditures for discontinued operations
were $143 million in 1994, primarily to expand and enhance Williams' network
services operations network. Budgeted capital expenditures and investments for
1997 are approximately $1.7 billion, primarily to expand pipeline systems,
gathering and processing facilities and the fiber-optic network.
 
                                       F-8

 
     On January 16, 1996, Williams acquired the remaining interest in Kern River
for $206 million in cash (see Note 2). In addition, during 1996 Williams
acquired various communications technology businesses totaling $165 million in
cash. During 1995, in addition to the Transco Energy acquisition (see Note 2),
Williams acquired the Gas Company of New Mexico's natural gas gathering and
processing assets in the San Juan and Permian basins for $154 million (including
approximately 10 percent of which was immediately sold to a third party) and
Pekin Energy Co., the nation's second largest ethanol producer, for $167 million
in cash.
 
     During 1996, Williams received proceeds of $23 million from the sale of
certain communications rights. During 1995, Williams received proceeds of $124
million from the sale of its 15 percent interest in Texasgulf Inc. During 1994,
Williams received net proceeds of $80 million from the sale of limited partner
units in Northern Border Partners, L.P. (see Note 6).
 
EFFECTS OF INFLATION
 
     Williams has experienced increased costs in recent years due to the effects
of inflation. However, approximately 62 percent of Williams' property, plant and
equipment was acquired or constructed during 1996 and 1995. A substantial
portion of Williams' property, plant and equipment is subject to regulation,
which limits recovery to historical cost. While Williams believes it will be
allowed the opportunity to earn a return based on the actual cost incurred to
replace existing assets, competition or other market factors may limit the
ability to recover such increased costs.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL
 
     Williams is a participant in certain environmental activities in various
stages involving assessment studies, cleanup operations and/or remedial
processes. The sites, some of which are not currently owned by Williams (see
Note 17), are being monitored by Williams, other potentially responsible
parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental
authorities in a coordinated effort. In addition, Williams maintains an active
monitoring program for its continued remediation and cleanup of certain sites
connected with its refined products pipeline activities. Williams has both joint
and several liability in some of these activities and sole responsibility in
others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such cleanup activities,
after payments by other parties, are approximately $80 million, all of which is
accrued at December 31, 1996. Williams expects to seek recovery of approximately
$42 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates.
Williams will fund these costs from operations and/or available bank-credit
facilities. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and
extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards
mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors.
 
                                       F-9

 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 

 
                                      F-10

 
                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
To The Stockholders of
  The Williams Companies, Inc.
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The Williams
Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1996. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a). These financial
statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
The Williams Companies, Inc. at December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 
                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP
 
Tulsa, Oklahoma
February 10, 1997
 
                                      F-11

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Certain amounts have been restated or reclassified as described in Note 1.
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-12

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (CONCLUDED)
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Amounts have been restated as described in Note 1.
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-13

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
                                     ASSETS
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Reclassified to conform to current classifications.
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-14

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
Note: Certain amounts have been restated to reflect the December 30, 1996
      three-for-two common stock split and distribution.
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-15

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 

 
Investing Activities:
  Property, plant and equipment:
    Capital expenditures:
      Continuing operations.............     (818.9)     (827.5)   (325.5)
      Discontinued operations...........         --          --    (142.8)
    Proceeds from dispositions..........       60.2        28.2       1.6
  Acquisition of businesses, net of cash
    acquired............................     (366.2)     (858.9)    (56.5)
  Proceeds from sales of businesses.....         --     2,588.3        --
  Income tax and other payments related
    to discontinued operations..........     (261.7)     (350.4)     (1.5)
  Proceeds from sales of assets.........       23.0       125.1      80.6
  Purchase of investments/advances to
    affiliates..........................      (76.9)      (49.7)     (3.3)
  Purchase of note receivable...........         --       (75.1)       --
  Other -- net..........................       20.8         4.9      20.4
                                          ---------   ---------   -------
        Net cash provided (used) by
        investing activities............   (1,419.7)      584.9    (427.0)
                                          ---------   ---------   -------
        Increase (decrease) in cash and
        cash equivalents................       24.9        54.3     (28.2)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning
  of year...............................       90.4        36.1      64.3
                                          ---------   ---------   -------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
  year..................................  $   115.3   $    90.4   $  36.1
                                          =========   =========   =======
 
- ---------------
* Reclassified to conform to current classifications.
 
                            See accompanying notes.
 
                                      F-16

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  Nature of operations
 
     Operations of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams) are located in the
United States and are organized into three operating groups as follows: Williams
Interstate Natural Gas Systems, which is comprised of five interstate natural
gas pipelines located in the eastern, midsouth, Gulf Coast, midwest and
northwest regions; Williams Energy Group, which is comprised of natural gas
gathering and processing facilities in the Rocky Mountain, midwest and Gulf
Coast regions, energy commodity trading and price-risk management activities
throughout the United States, a petroleum products pipeline in the midwest
region, and hydrocarbon exploration and production activities in the Rocky
Mountain and Gulf Coast regions; and Williams Communications Group, which
includes Williams' national data, voice, video and Internet communication
products and network integration services and fiber-optic and satellite
multimedia transmission services. Additional information about these businesses
is contained throughout the following notes.
 
  Basis of presentation
 
     Williams Energy Group is comprised of four units. Field Services includes
Williams' natural gas gathering and processing activities previously reported in
Williams Field Services Group. Merchant Services includes Williams' energy
commodity trading and price-risk management activities previously reported in
Williams Energy Services. Certain natural gas and natural gas liquids marketing
operations formerly reported in Williams Field Services Group are also included
in Merchant Services. Petroleum Services includes Williams' interstate petroleum
products pipeline, ethanol-producing facilities and petroleum terminals
previously reported in Williams Pipe Line. Exploration and Production includes
exploration for and production of hydrocarbons previously reported as a
component of Williams Field Services Group. Williams Communications Group is the
combination of WilTel and WilTech Group, previously reported separately.
Revenues and operating profit amounts for 1995 and 1994 have been reclassified
to conform to current year classifications.
 
     Revenues and operating profit amounts include the operating results of Kern
River Gas Transmission Company (Kern River) since the January 16, 1996,
acquisition by Williams of the remaining interest (see Note 2). Prior to this
acquisition, Williams accounted for its 50 percent ownership in Kern River using
the equity method of accounting, with its share of equity earnings recorded in
investing income.
 
     Revenues and operating profit amounts include the operating results of
Transco Energy Company (Transco Energy) since its January 18, 1995, acquisition
by Williams (see Note 2). The transportation operations from Transco Energy's
two interstate natural gas pipelines are reported separately within Williams
Interstate Natural Gas Systems. Transco Energy's gas gathering operations are
included in Field Services, and its gas marketing operations are included in
Merchant Services.
 
  Principles of consolidation
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Williams and
its majority-owned subsidiaries. Companies in which Williams and its
subsidiaries own 20 percent to 50 percent of the voting common stock, or
otherwise exercise sufficient influence over operating and financial policies of
the company, are accounted for under the equity method.
 
  Use of estimates
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.
 
                                      F-17

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  Cash and cash equivalents
 
     Cash and cash equivalents include demand and time deposits, certificates of
deposit and other marketable securities with maturities of three months or less
when acquired.
 
  Transportation and exchange gas imbalances
 
     In the course of providing transportation services to customers, the
natural gas pipelines may receive different quantities of gas from shippers than
the quantities delivered on behalf of those shippers. Additionally, the
pipelines and other Williams subsidiaries transport gas on various pipeline
systems which may deliver different quantities of gas on their behalf than the
quantities of gas received. These transactions result in gas transportation and
exchange imbalance receivables and payables which are recovered or repaid in
cash or through the receipt or delivery of gas in the future. Settlement of
imbalances requires agreement between the pipelines and shippers as to
allocations of volumes to specific transportation contracts and timing of
delivery of gas based on operational conditions. Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line's imbalances predating August 1, 1991, are being recovered or repaid in
cash or through the receipt or delivery of gas upon agreements of allocation.
 
  Inventory valuation
 
     Inventories are stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, except
for those held by Merchant Services, which are primarily stated at market.
Inventories of natural gas are determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO)
method by Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and the average-cost method by other
subsidiaries. Except for Merchant Services, inventories of petroleum products
are determined using average cost. The cost of materials and supplies
inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out method (FIFO) by
Williams Communications Group and principally using the average-cost method by
other subsidiaries.
 
  Property, plant and equipment
 
     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is provided
primarily on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. Gains or
losses from the ordinary sale or retirement of property, plant and equipment for
regulated pipeline subsidiaries are credited or charged to accumulated
depreciation; other gains or losses are recorded in net income.
 
  Treasury stock
 
     Treasury stock purchases are accounted for under the cost method whereby
the entire cost of the acquired stock is recorded as treasury stock. Gains and
losses on the subsequent reissuance of shares are credited or charged to capital
in excess of par value using the average-cost method.
 
  Revenue recognition
 
     Revenues generally are recorded when services have been performed or
products have been delivered. Petroleum Services bills customers when products
are shipped and defers the estimated revenues for shipments in transit. Williams
interstate natural gas pipelines recognize revenues based upon contractual terms
and the related transportation volumes through month-end. These pipelines are
subject to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulations and,
accordingly, certain revenues are subject to possible refunds pending final FERC
orders. Williams records rate refund accruals based on management's estimate of
the expected outcome of these proceedings.
 
  Commodity price-risk management activities
 
     Merchant Services has trading operations that enter into energy-related
financial instruments (forward contracts, futures contracts, option contracts
and swap agreements) to provide price-risk management services
 
                                      F-18

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
to its third-party customers. This operation also enters into short- and
long-term energy-related purchase and sale commitments as part of its trading
business. All of these investments and commitments are valued at market and are
recorded in commodity trading assets, other assets and deferred charges,
commodity trading liabilities and other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet. The change in unrealized market gains and losses is recognized in income
currently and is recorded as revenues in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Such market values are subject to change in the near term and reflect
management's best estimate of market prices considering various factors
including closing exchange and over-the-counter quotations, the terms of the
contract, credit considerations, time value and volatility factors underlying
the positions. Merchant Services reports its trading operations sales of natural
gas, refined products and crude oil net of the related costs to purchase such
items, consistent with mark-to-market accounting for such trading activities.
 
     Certain Merchant Services' natural gas, natural gas liquids and refined
product marketing revenues previously reported in Williams Field Services Group
and/or Williams Pipe Line were not included in trading operations and therefore
are not reported net of related costs to purchase such items.
 
     Other Williams operations enter into energy-related financial instruments
(primarily futures contracts, option contracts and swap agreements) to hedge
against market price fluctuations of certain commodity inventories and sales and
purchase commitments. Unrealized and realized gains and losses on these hedge
contracts are deferred and recognized in income when the related hedged item is
recognized. These contracts are regularly evaluated to determine that there is a
high correlation between changes in the market value of the hedge contract and
fair value of the hedged item.
 
  Capitalization of interest
 
     Williams capitalizes interest on major projects during construction.
Interest is capitalized on borrowed funds and, where regulation by the FERC
exists, on internally generated funds. The rates used by regulated companies are
calculated in accordance with FERC rules. Rates used by unregulated companies
approximate the average interest rate on related debt. Interest capitalized on
internally generated funds is included in other income (expense) -- net.
 
  Employee stock-based awards
 
     Employee stock-based awards are accounted for under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and related
interpretations. Williams' fixed plan common stock options do not result in
compensation expense, because the exercise price of the stock options equals the
market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.
 
  Income taxes
 
     Williams includes the operations of its subsidiaries in its consolidated
federal income tax return. Deferred income taxes are computed using the
liability method and are provided on all temporary differences between the
financial basis and the tax basis of Williams' assets and liabilities.
 
  Earnings per share
 
     Primary earnings per share are based on the sum of the average number of
common shares outstanding and common-share equivalents resulting from stock
options and deferred shares. Fully diluted earnings per share for 1996 and 1995
assumes conversion of the $3.50 convertible preferred stock into common stock
effective May 1, 1995. Shares used in determination of primary earnings per
share are as follows (in thousands): 1996 -- 162,118; 1995 -- 153,069; and
1994 -- 153,704. Shares used in determination of fully diluted earnings per
share are as follows (in thousands): 1996 -- 168,199; 1995 -- 157,280; and
1994 --
 
                                      F-19

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
153,753. The number of shares for 1995 and 1994 have been restated to reflect
the effect of a three-for-two common stock split and distribution (see Note 14).
 
NOTE 2 -- ACQUISITIONS
 
     On January 16, 1996, Williams acquired the remaining interest in Kern River
for $206 million in cash. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase, and
the acquired assets and liabilities have been recorded based on an allocation of
the purchase price, with substantially all of the cost in excess of Kern River's
historical carrying value allocated to property, plant and equipment.
 
     On January 18, 1995, Williams acquired 60 percent of Transco Energy's
outstanding common stock in a cash tender offer for $430.5 million. Williams
acquired the remaining 40 percent of Transco Energy's outstanding common stock
on May 1, 1995, through a merger by exchanging the remaining Transco Energy
common stock for approximately 15.6 million shares of Williams common stock
valued at $334 million. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase with 60
percent of Transco Energy's results of operations included in Williams'
Consolidated Statement of Income for the period January 18, 1995, through April
30, 1995, and 100 percent included beginning May 1, 1995. The purchase price,
including transaction fees and other related costs, was approximately $800
million, excluding $2.3 billion in preferred stock and debt obligations of
Transco Energy. The acquired assets and liabilities were recorded based on an
allocation of the purchase price with substantially all of the cost in excess of
Transco Energy's historical carrying amounts allocated to property, plant and
equipment of the two interstate natural gas pipeline systems. The cash portion
of the acquisition was financed with the proceeds from the sale of Williams'
network services operations (see Note 3).
 
     Transco Energy was engaged primarily in the natural gas pipeline and
natural gas marketing businesses. Williams has sold substantially all of Transco
Energy's coal operations, coalbed methane properties and certain pipeline and
gathering operations. Results of operations and changes in the carrying amount
of these businesses during the holding period and from the ultimate dispositions
are reflected in the purchase price and are not material.
 
     In connection with the acquisition, Williams made payments to retire and/or
terminate approximately $700 million of Transco Energy borrowings, preferred
stock, interest-rate swaps and sale of receivable facilities. As a part of the
merger, Williams exchanged Transco Energy's $3.50 preferred stock for Williams'
$3.50 preferred stock.
 
                                      F-20

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The following unaudited pro forma information combines the results of
operations of Williams and Transco Energy as if the purchase of 100 percent of
Transco Energy occurred January 1, 1994.
 

 
     Pro forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of results of
operations that would have occurred if the acquisition had occurred on January
1, 1994, or of future results of operations of the combined companies.
 
NOTE 3 -- DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     On January 5, 1995, Williams sold its network services operations to LDDS
Communications, Inc. for $2.5 billion in cash. The sale yielded a gain of $1
billion (net of income taxes of approximately $732 million) which is reported as
income from discontinued operations. Operating results for 1994 for the network
services operations are reported as discontinued operations. Under the terms of
the agreement, Williams retained Williams Telecommunications Systems, Inc., a
national telecommunications equipment supplier and service company, and Vyvx,
Inc., which operates a national video network specializing in broadcast
television applications and satellite transmission. These operations are
included in Williams Communications Group.
 
     Summarized operating results of discontinued operations for 1994 were as
follows:
 

 
                                      F-21

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 4 -- REVENUES AND OPERATING PROFIT
 
     Revenues and operating profit of Williams Interstate Natural Gas Systems
and Williams Energy Group for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
are as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Certain amounts have been reclassified as described in Note 1.
 
NOTE 5 -- INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 

 
     At December 31, 1996, certain equity investments, with a carrying value of
$36 million, have a market value of $126 million.
 
     In 1996, Williams acquired the remaining interest in Kern River (see Note
2). Summarized financial position and results of operations for Kern River for
1995 and 1994 are presented below.
 

 
                                      F-22

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Investing income from continuing operations:
 

 
     Dividends and distributions received from companies carried on an equity
basis were $7 million in 1996; $44 million in 1995; and $43 million in 1994.
 
NOTE 6 -- ASSET SALES AND WRITE-OFF OF PROJECT COSTS
 
     In the fourth quarter of 1996, Williams recognized a pre-tax gain of $15.7
million from the sale of certain communication rights for approximately $38
million.
 
     In 1995, the development of a commercial coal gasification venture in
south-central Wyoming was canceled, resulting in a $41.4 million pre-tax charge.
This amount includes what management believes to be a reasonable estimate of
future costs of $4 million to reclaim the site, of which approximately $3
million remains to be incurred over a five-year period. Williams continues to
perform the reclamation of the site in coordination with various governmental
agencies and expects to receive necessary environmental releases and approvals
upon completion of the reclamation.
 
     In 1995, Williams sold its 15 percent interest in Texasgulf Inc. for
approximately $124 million in cash, which resulted in an after-tax gain of
approximately $16 million because of previously unrecognized tax benefits
included in the provision for income taxes.
 
     In 1994, Williams sold 3,461,500 limited partner common units in Northern
Border Partners, L.P. Net proceeds from the sale were approximately $80 million,
and the sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of $22.7 million. As a result of the
sale, Williams' original 12.25 percent interest in Northern Border partnerships
has been reduced to 3.2 percent.
 
NOTE 7 -- PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
     The provision (credit) for income taxes from continuing operations
includes:
 

 
                                      F-23

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Reconciliations from the provision for income taxes from continuing
operations at the statutory rate to the provision for income taxes are as
follows:
 

 
     Significant components of deferred tax liabilities and assets as of
December 31 are as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Reclassified to conform to current classifications.
 
     A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets decreased $23.4 million
during 1995.
 
     Cash payments for income taxes (net of refunds) were $395 million, $339
million and $107 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
NOTE 8 -- EXTRAORDINARY LOSS
 
     The extraordinary loss in 1994 resulted from early extinguishment of debt.
Williams and one of its subsidiaries paid $316.7 million to redeem higher
interest rate debt for a $12.2 million net loss (net of a $7.7 million benefit
for income taxes).
 
                                      F-24

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 9 -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
  Pensions
 
     Williams maintains non-contributory defined-benefit pension plans covering
the majority of its employees. Benefits are based on years of service and
average final compensation. Pension costs are funded to satisfy minimum
requirements prescribed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
 
     Net pension expense consists of the following:
 

 
     Net pension expense increased in 1996 from 1995 as a result of a decrease
in the discount rate from 8 1/2 percent to 7 1/4 percent and an increase in the
number of plan participants. Net pension expense increased in 1995 from 1994 as
a result of the Transco Energy plans' participants.
 
     The following table presents the funded status of the plans:
 

 
     The discount rate used to measure the present value of benefit obligations
is 7 1/2 percent (7 1/4 percent in 1995); the assumed rate of increase in future
compensation levels is 5 percent; and the expected long-term rate of return on
assets is 10 percent. Plan assets consist primarily of commingled funds and
assets held in a master trust. The master trust is comprised primarily of
domestic and foreign common and preferred stocks, United States government
securities, corporate bonds and commercial paper.
 
     Williams has retained all liabilities and obligations for service of its
network services operations' plan participants up to the date of sale (see Note
3).
 
                                      F-25

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  Postretirement benefits other than pensions
 
     Williams sponsors health care plans that provide postretirement medical
benefits to retired Williams employees who were employed full time, hired prior
to January 1, 1992 (January 1, 1996, for Transco Energy employees) and have met
certain other requirements.
 
     The plans provide for retiree contributions and contain other cost-sharing
features such as deductibles and coinsurance. The accounting for the plans
anticipates future cost-sharing changes to the written plans that are consistent
with Williams' expressed intent to increase the retiree contribution rate
annually, generally in line with health care cost increases, except for certain
retirees whose premiums are fixed. A portion of the cost has been funded in
trusts by Williams' FERC-regulated natural gas pipeline subsidiaries to the
extent recovery from customers can be achieved. Plan assets consist of assets
held in two master trusts and money market funds. One of the master trusts was
previously described, and the other consists primarily of domestic and foreign
common stocks, government bonds and commercial paper.
 
     Net postretirement benefit expense consists of the following:
 

 
     Net postretirement benefit expense increased $26 million in 1995 from 1994
for the Transco Energy participants.
 
     The following table presents the funded status of the plans:
 

 
     During fourth-quarter 1996, the plans were amended, effective January 1,
1997, to increase the cost-sharing provisions. This amendment decreased the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation approximately $10 million. The
amount of postretirement benefit costs deferred as a regulatory asset at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, is $118 million and $133 million, respectively, and
is expected to be recovered through rates over approximately 15 years.
 
                                      F-26

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The discount rate used to measure the present value of benefit obligations
is 7 1/2 percent (7 1/4 percent in 1995). The expected long-term rate of return
on plan assets is 10 percent (6 percent after taxes). The annual assumed rate of
increase in the health care cost trend rate for 1997 is 9 to 10 percent,
systematically decreasing to 5 percent by 2004. The health care cost trend rate
assumption has a significant effect on the amounts reported. Increasing the
assumed health care cost trend rate by 1 percent in each year would increase the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of postretirement benefit
expense for the year ended December 31, 1996, by $4 million and the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 1996, by $27 million.
 
  Other
 
     Williams maintains various defined-contribution plans covering
substantially all employees. Company contributions are based on employees'
compensation and, in part, match employee contributions. Company contributions
are invested primarily in Williams common stock. Williams' contributions to
these plans were $23 million in 1996, $19 million in 1995 and $14 million in
1994. Contributions to these plans made by discontinued operations were $3
million in 1994.
 
NOTE 10 -- INVENTORIES
 

 
- ---------------
 
*Certain amounts have been reclassified as described in Note 1.
 
     Inventories valued on the LIFO method at December 31, 1996 and 1995,
approximate current average cost.
 
                                      F-27

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 11 -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Certain amounts have been reclassified as described in Note 1.
 
     Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and
equipment are approximately $268 million at December 31, 1996.
 
     Effective January 1, 1996, Williams adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of." Adoption of the standard had no
effect on Williams' financial position or results of operations.
 
NOTE 12 -- ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 
     Under Williams' cash-management system, certain subsidiaries' cash accounts
reflect credit balances to the extent checks written have not been presented for
payment. The amounts of these credit balances included in accounts payable are
$95 million at December 31, 1996, and $136 million at December 31, 1995.
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Reclassified to conform to current classifications.
 
                                      F-28

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 13 -- DEBT, LEASES AND BANKING ARRANGEMENTS
 
  Notes payable
 
     Williams has entered into various short-term credit agreements with amounts
outstanding totaling $269.5 million at December 31, 1996. The weighted average
interest rate on the outstanding short-term borrowings at December 31, 1996, was
7.85 percent.
 
Debt
 

 
- ---------------
 
*At December 31, 1996, including the effects of interest-rate swaps.
 
     In December 1996, Williams increased the amounts available under its
existing credit agreement to $1 billion from $800 million. Under the credit
agreement, Northwest Pipeline, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas
Transmission, Williams Pipe Line and Williams Holdings of Delaware, Inc.
(Williams
 
                                      F-29

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Holdings) have access to various amounts of the facility, while Williams
(parent) has access to all unborrowed amounts. Interest rates vary with current
market conditions.
 
     For financial statement reporting purposes at December 31, 1996, $200
million in current debt obligations have been classified as non-current
obligations based on Williams' intent and ability to refinance on a long-term
basis. At December 31, 1996, the amount available on the $1 billion credit
agreement of $500 million is sufficient to complete these refinancings.
 
     During March 1996, the Kern River floating-rate bank loan was refinanced
through the issuance of 6.42 percent and 6.72 percent fixed-rate notes.
Interest-rate swap agreements entered into by Kern River in prior years, which
converted floating-rate debt to fixed-rate debt, remain outstanding. Concurrent
with the refinancing, Kern River entered into additional interest-rate swap
agreements where Kern River receives a fixed interest rate and pays a floating
interest rate. The interest-rate swaps are recorded at market with an offsetting
deferral of costs as a regulatory asset that is expected to be recovered in
transportation rates. The effect is to adjust the new fixed-rate notes to an
effective interest rate of 8.5 percent.
 
     In January 1996, Williams Holdings issued $250 million of 6.25 percent
debentures due 2006. In April 1996, Williams Holdings entered into an
interest-rate swap agreement, which effectively converted its 6.25 percent
fixed-rate debentures to floating-rate debt (4.66 percent at December 31, 1996).
The difference between the fixed and variable rate is included in interest
expense.
 
     In conjunction with the issuance of $130 million of variable rate debt by
Williams Natural Gas in November 1994, Williams entered into an interest-rate
swap agreement under which Williams pays a 7.78 percent fixed rate in exchange
for a variable rate (5.5 percent at December 31, 1996). The difference between
the fixed and variable rate is included in interest expense.
 
     Aggregate minimum maturities and sinking-fund requirements, excluding lease
payments, for each of the next five years are as follows:
 

 
     Cash payments for interest (net of amounts capitalized) related to
continuing operations are as follows: 1996 -- $347 million; 1995 -- $266
million; and 1994 -- $143 million. Cash payments for interest (net of amounts
capitalized) related to discontinued operations are $6 million in 1994.
 
  Leases
 
     Future minimum annual rentals under non-cancelable operating leases related
to continuing operations are $59 million in 1997, $54 million in 1998, $48
million in 1999, $42 million in 2000, $40 million in 2001 and $161 million
thereafter.
 
     Total rent expense from continuing operations was $78 million in 1996 and
1995 and $26 million in 1994. Total rent expense from discontinued operations
was $70 million in 1994.
 
NOTE 14 -- STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     On November 21, 1996, the board of directors of Williams declared a
three-for-two common stock split and distribution; 53.8 million shares were
issued on December 30, 1996. All references in the financial
 
                                      F-30

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
statements and notes to the number of common shares outstanding and per-share
amounts reflect the effect of the split.
 
     In the third quarter of 1996, the Williams' board of directors authorized
the open-market purchase of up to $800 million of Williams common stock. At
December 31, 1996, 957,750 shares had been purchased at a total cost of
approximately $31 million.
 
     In connection with the 1995 merger with Transco Energy, Williams exchanged
all of Transco Energy's outstanding $3.50 cumulative convertible preferred stock
for 2.5 million shares of Williams' $3.50 cumulative convertible preferred
stock. These shares are redeemable by Williams beginning in November 1999, at an
initial price of $51.40 per share. Each share of $3.50 preferred stock is
convertible at the option of the holder into 2.34375 shares of Williams common
stock. Dividends per share of $3.50 and $2.33 were recorded during 1996 and
1995, respectively.
 
     During 1995, Williams exchanged 2.8 million shares of its $2.21 cumulative
preferred stock with a carrying value of $69 million for 9.6 percent debentures
with a fair value of $72.5 million. The difference in the fair value of the new
securities and the carrying value of the preferred stock exchanged is recorded
as a decrease in capital in excess of par value. This amount did not impact net
income, but is included in preferred stock dividends on the Consolidated
Statement of Income and in the computation of earnings per share. The 741,552
outstanding shares of $2.21 cumulative preferred stock are redeemable by
Williams at a price of $25 beginning in September 1997. Dividends per share of
$2.21 were recorded each year during 1996, 1995 and 1994.
 
     In January 1996, the board of directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan
(the Rights Plan) to replace its existing rights plan, which expired on February
6, 1996. Under the Rights Plan, each outstanding share of common stock has
two-thirds of a preferred stock purchase right attached. Under certain
conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase, at an exercise price of
$140 (subject to adjustment), one two-hundredth of a share of junior
participating preferred stock. The rights may be exercised only if an Acquiring
Person acquires (or obtains the right to acquire) 15 percent or more of Williams
common stock; or commences an offer for 15 percent or more of Williams common
stock; or the board of directors determines an Adverse Person has become the
owner of 10 percent or more of Williams common stock. The rights, which do not
have voting rights, expire in 2006 and may be redeemed at a price of $.01 per
right prior to their expiration, or within a specified period of time after the
occurrence of certain events. In the event a person becomes the owner of more
than 15 percent of Williams common stock or the board of directors determines
that a person is an Adverse Person, each holder of a right (except an Acquiring
Person or an Adverse Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise,
common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.
In the event Williams is engaged in a merger, business combination or 50 percent
or more of Williams' assets, cash flow or earnings power is sold or transferred,
each holder of a right (except an Acquiring Person or an Adverse Person) shall
have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company
having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.
 
     Williams has several plans providing for common-stock-based awards to
employees and to non-employee directors. The plans permit the granting of
various types of awards including, but not limited to, stock options,
stock-appreciation rights, restricted stock and deferred stock. Awards may be
granted for no consideration other than prior and future services. The purchase
price per share for stock options and stock-appreciation rights may not be less
than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. Stock
options generally become exercisable after five years, subject to accelerated
vesting if certain future stock prices are achieved. Stock options expire 10
years after grant. At December 31, 1996, 19,618,842 shares of common stock were
reserved for issuance pursuant to existing and future stock awards, of which
7,813,768 shares were available for future grants (4,048,199 at December 31,
1995).
 
                                      F-31

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The following summary reflects stock option activity and related
information for 1996:
 

 
     The following summary provides information about stock options outstanding
and exercisable at December 31, 1996:
 

 
     The fair value of the stock options was estimated at the date of grant
using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions: expected life of the stock options of five years; volatility of the
expected market price of Williams common stock of 24 percent; risk-free interest
rate of 6.2 percent; and a dividend yield of 3 percent.
 
     Williams granted 195,376, 98,168 and 191,559 deferred shares in 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively. The weighted average grant date fair value of the shares
issued in 1996 is $31.55. Deferred shares are valued at the date of award and
are generally charged to expense in the year of award. Williams issued 109,516,
105,183 and 67,947 previously deferred shares in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. Williams also issued 19,650, 82,950 and 67,200 shares of
restricted stock in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The weighted average
grant date fair value of the shares issued in 1996 is $29.50. Restricted stock
is valued on the issuance date and the related expense is amortized over varying
periods of three to 10 years.
 
     Pro forma net income and earnings per share, assuming Williams had applied
the fair-value method of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" in measuring compensation cost beginning with 1995
employee stock-based awards, are as follows:
 

 
     Pro forma amounts for 1995 reflect total compensation expense from the
awards made in 1995 as these awards fully vested as a result of the accelerated
vesting provisions. Since compensation expense from stock
 
                                      F-32

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
options is recognized over the future years' vesting period, and additional
awards generally are made each year, pro forma amounts for 1996 may not be
representative of future years' amounts.
 
     During November 1994, Williams entered into a deferred share agreement (the
Agreement) in connection with the sale of its network services operations. Under
the terms of the Agreement, Williams has approximately 1.6 million shares of
Williams common stock remaining to distribute to key employees of the network
services operations over various periods through 2002, less amounts necessary to
meet minimum tax withholding requirements. Williams distributed 637,361, 471,608
and 409,643 shares during 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
NOTE 15 -- FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  Fair-value methods
 
     The following methods and assumptions were used by Williams in estimating
its fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:
 
          Cash and cash equivalents and notes payable: The carrying amounts
     reported in the balance sheet approximate fair value due to the short-term
     maturity of these instruments.
 
          Notes and other non-current receivables: For those notes with interest
     rates approximating market or maturities of less than three years, fair
     value is estimated to approximate historically recorded amounts. For those
     notes with maturities beyond three years and fixed interest rates, fair
     value is calculated using discounted cash flow analysis based on current
     market rates.
 
          Investments -- cost: Fair value is estimated to approximate
     historically recorded amounts as the operations underlying these
     investments are in their initial phases.
 
          Long-term debt: The fair value of Williams' long-term debt is valued
     using indicative year-end traded bond market prices for publicly traded
     issues, while private debt is valued based on the prices of similar
     securities with similar terms and credit ratings. At December 31, 1996 and
     1995, 69 percent and 85 percent, respectively, of Williams' long-term debt
     was publicly traded. Williams used the expertise of an outside investment
     banking firm to estimate the fair value of long-term debt.
 
          Interest-rate swaps: Fair value is determined by discounting estimated
     future cash flows using forward interest rates implied by the year-end
     yield curve. Fair value was calculated by the financial institutions that
     are the counterparties to the swaps.
 
          Energy-related trading and hedging: Includes forwards, futures,
     options, swaps and purchase and sales commitments. Fair value reflects
     management's best estimate of market prices considering various factors
     including closing exchange and over-the-counter quotations, the terms of
     the contract, credit considerations, time value and volatility factors
     underlying the positions.
 
                                      F-33

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
  Carrying amounts and fair values of Williams' financial instruments
 
     Asset (liability)
 

 
     The preceding asset and liability amounts for energy-related hedging
represent unrealized gains or losses and do not include the related deferred
amounts.
 
     The 1996 average fair value of the energy-related trading assets and
liabilities is $196 million and $322 million, respectively. The 1995 average
fair value of the energy-related trading assets and liabilities is $97 million
and $181 million, respectively.
 
     Williams has recorded liabilities of $18 million and $24 million at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, for certain guarantees that represent
the estimated fair value of these financial instruments.
 
  Off-balance-sheet credit and market risk
 
     Williams is a participant in the following transactions and arrangements
that involve financial instruments that have off-balance-sheet risk of
accounting loss. It is not practicable to estimate the fair value of these off-
balance-sheet financial instruments because of their unusual nature and unique
characteristics.
 
     Williams sold certain receivables. The aggregate limit under revolving
receivables facilities was $135 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995. Williams
received $47 million of proceeds in 1996, $196 million in 1995 and $110 million
in 1994. At December 31, 1996 and 1995, $152 million and $166 million of
receivables had been sold, respectively, under the revolving receivables
facilities and another arrangement. Based on amounts outstanding at December 31,
1996 and 1995, the maximum contractual credit loss under these arrangements is
approximately $28 million, but the likelihood of loss is remote. In January
1997, Williams expanded their revolving receivables facilities and sold $200
million of receivables. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued a
new accounting standard FAS No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," effective for transactions
occurring after December 31, 1996. The adoption of this standard is not expected
to impact Williams' consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.
 
     In connection with the sale of units in the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty
Trust (Trust), Williams indemnified the Trust against losses from certain
litigation (see Note 17) and guaranteed minimum gas prices through 1997. At
December 31, 1996 and 1995, Williams has a recorded liability of $5 million and
$10 million, respectively, for these items, representing the maximum amount for
the first guarantee and an
 
                                      F-34

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
estimate of the gas price exposure based on historical operating trends and an
assessment of market conditions. While Williams' maximum exposure from this
guarantee exceeds amounts accrued, it is not possible to determine such amount
because it is dependent on future events.
 
     In connection with the sale of Williams' network services operations,
Williams has been indemnified by LDDS against any losses related to retained
guarantees of $158 million and $180 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995,
respectively, for lease rental obligations. LDDS has advised that it is
negotiating with the guaranteed parties to remove Williams as guarantor.
 
     Williams has issued other guarantees and letters of credit with
off-balance-sheet risk that total approximately $10 million and $8 million at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Williams believes it will not have to
perform under these agreements because the likelihood of default by the primary
party is remote and/or because of certain indemnifications received from other
third parties.
 
  Commodity price-risk management services
 
     Williams, through its Merchant Services group, provides price-risk
management services associated with the energy industry to its customers. These
services are provided through a variety of financial instruments, including
forward contracts, futures contracts, option contracts, swap agreements and
purchase and sale commitments. See Note 1 for a description of the accounting
for these trading activities.
 
     Merchant Services enters into forward contracts and purchase and sale
commitments which involve physical delivery of an energy commodity. Prices under
these contracts are both fixed and variable. Swap agreements call for Merchant
Services to make payments to (or receive payments from) counterparties based
upon the differential between a fixed and variable price or variable prices for
different locations. The variable prices are generally based on either industry
pricing publications or exchange quotations. Merchant Services buys and sells
option contracts which give the buyer the right to exercise the options and
receive the difference between a predetermined strike price and a market price
at the date of exercise. The market prices used for natural-gas-related option
contracts are generally exchange quotations. Merchant Services also enters into
futures contracts, which are commitments to either purchase or sell a commodity
at a future date for a specified price and are generally settled in cash, but
may be settled through delivery of the underlying commodity. The market prices
for futures contracts are based on exchange quotations.
 
     Merchant Services manages risk from financial instruments by making various
logistical commitments and manages profit margins through offsetting financial
instruments. As a result, price movements can result in losses on certain
contracts offset by gains on others.
 
     Merchant Services takes an active role in managing and controlling market
and counterparty risks and has established formal control procedures, which are
reviewed on an ongoing basis. Merchant Services attempts to minimize credit-risk
exposure to trading counterparties and brokers through formal credit policies
and monitoring procedures. In the normal course of business, collateral is not
required for financial instruments with credit risk.
 
     The notional quantities for trading financial instruments at December 31,
1996, and December 31, 1995, are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-35

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The net cash flow requirement related to these contracts at December 31,
1996 and 1995, was $117 million and $215 million, respectively. At December 31,
1996, the cash flow requirements extend primarily through 2006.
 
     In 1995, certain gas marketing operations of Merchant Services, along with
gas marketing operations from Transco Energy, were combined with the commodity
price-risk management and trading activities of Merchant Services. Such
combination in 1995 involves managing the price and other business risks and
opportunities of such physical gas trading activities and any related financial
instruments previously accounted for as hedges in common-risk portfolios with
Merchant Services' other financial instruments. These former marketing
activities, consisting of buying and selling natural gas, through 1994 were
reported on a "gross" basis in the Consolidated Statement of Income as revenues
and profit-center costs. Concurrent with completing the combination of such
activities with the commodity price-risk management operations in the third
quarter of 1995, the related contract rights and obligations along with any
related financial instruments, previously accounted for as hedges, were recorded
in the Consolidated Balance Sheet on a current-market-value basis and the
related income statement presentation was changed to a net basis. Such revenues
reported on a gross basis through the first two quarters of 1995 were
reclassified to a net basis concurrent with this change in the third quarter of
1995.
 
     Following is a summary of Merchant Services' revenues:
 

 
- ---------------
 
*Through June 30, 1995.
 
  Concentration of credit risk
 
     Williams' cash equivalents consist of high quality securities placed with
various major financial institutions with high credit ratings. Williams'
investment policy limits its credit exposure to any one financial institution.
 
     At December 31, 1996 and 1995, approximately 69 percent and 62 percent,
respectively, of receivables are for the sale or transportation of natural gas
and related products or services. Approximately 23 percent and 27 percent of
receivables at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively, are for
telecommunications and related services. Natural gas customers include
pipelines, distribution companies, producers, gas marketers and industrial users
primarily located in the eastern, northwestern and midwestern United States.
Telecommunications customers include numerous corporations. As a general policy,
collateral is not required for receivables, but customers' financial condition
and credit worthiness are evaluated regularly.
 
                                      F-36

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 16 -- OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
     Intercompany revenues (at prices that generally apply to sales to
unaffiliated parties) are as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Certain amounts have been reclassified as described in Note 1.
 
                                      F-37

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Information for business segments is as follows:
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Certain amounts have been reclassified as described in Note 1.
 
                                      F-38

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 17 -- CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS
 
  Rate and regulatory matters and related litigation
 
     Williams interstate pipeline subsidiaries, including Williams Pipe Line,
have various regulatory proceedings pending. As a result of rulings in certain
of these proceedings, a portion of the revenues of these subsidiaries has been
collected subject to refund. As to Williams Pipe Line, revenues collected
subject to refund were $251 million at December 31, 1996; it is not expected
that the amount of any refunds ordered would be significant. Accordingly, no
portion of these revenues has been reserved for refund. As to the other
pipelines, see Note 12 for the amount of revenues reserved for potential refund
as of December 31, 1996.
 
     In 1992, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued Order 636,
Order 636-A and Order 636-B. These orders, which were challenged in various
respects by various parties in proceedings recently ruled on by the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, require interstate gas pipeline companies to
change the manner in which they provide services. Kern River Gas Transmission
implemented its restructuring on August 1, 1993; Williams Natural Gas
implemented its restructuring on October 1, 1993; and Northwest Pipeline, Texas
Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line implemented their restructurings on
November 1, 1993. Certain aspects of four pipeline companies' restructuring are
under appeal.
 
     On July 16, 1996, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued an
order which in part affirmed and in part remanded Order 636. However, the court
stated that Order 636 would remain in effect until FERC issued a final order on
remand after considering the remanded issues. With the issuance of this
decision, the stay on the appeals of individual pipeline's restructuring cases
will be lifted. The only appeal challenging Northwest Pipeline's restructuring
has been dismissed.
 
  Contract reformations and gas purchase deficiencies
 
     As a result of FERC Order 636, which requires interstate gas pipelines to
change the way they do business, each of the natural gas pipeline subsidiaries
has undertaken the reformation or termination of its respective gas supply
contracts. None of the pipelines has any significant pending supplier
take-or-pay, ratable take or minimum take claims.
 
     Current FERC policy associated with Orders 436 and 500 requires interstate
gas pipelines to absorb some of the cost of reforming gas supply contracts
before allowing any recovery through direct bill or surcharges to transportation
as well as sales commodity rates. Under Orders 636, 636-A and 636-B, costs
incurred to comply with these rules are permitted to be recovered in full,
although 10 percent of such costs must be allocated to interruptible
transportation service.
 
     The previously mentioned July 16, 1996, D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals
decision concerning Order 636 has remanded to FERC the issues of whether
pipelines should absorb any portion of Order 636 transition costs and whether 10
percent of such costs should have been allocated to interruptible transportation
services.
 
     Pursuant to a stipulation and agreement approved by the FERC, Williams
Natural Gas has made seven filings to direct bill take-or-pay and gas supply
realignment costs. The first provided for the offset of certain amounts
collected subject to refund against previous take-or-pay direct-billed amounts
and, in addition, covered $24 million in new costs. This filing was approved,
and the final direct-billed amount, taking into consideration the offset, was
$15 million. The second filing covered $18 million in gas supply realignment
costs, and provided for an offset of $3 million. The third filing covered $6.5
million in gas supply realignment costs. The remaining filings covered
additional costs of approximately $15 million, which are similar in nature to
the costs in the second filing. An intervenor has filed a protest seeking to
have the Commission review the prudence of certain of the costs covered by these
filings. On July 31, 1996, the administrative law judge issued an initial
decision rejecting the intervenor's prudency challenge. As of December 31, 1996,
this subsidiary had an accrual of $75 million for its then-estimated remaining
contract-reformation and gas supply realignment
 
                                      F-39

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
costs. Williams Natural Gas will make additional filings under the applicable
FERC orders to recover such further costs as may be incurred in the future.
Williams Natural Gas has recorded a regulatory asset of approximately $73
million for estimated future recovery of the foregoing costs.
 
     In September 1995, Texas Gas received FERC approval of a settlement
regarding Texas Gas' recovery of gas supply realignment costs. The settlement
provides that Texas Gas will recover 100 percent of such costs up to $50
million, will share in costs incurred between $50 million and $80 million, and
will absorb any such costs above $80 million. Through December 31, 1996, Texas
Gas has paid approximately $76 million and expects to pay no more than $80
million for gas supply realignment costs, primarily as a result of contract
terminations. Texas Gas has recovered approximately $59 million, plus interest,
in gas supply realignment costs and has recorded a regulatory asset of
approximately $9 million for the estimated future recovery of such costs, most
of which will be collected from customers prior to December 31, 1997. Ninety
percent of the cost recovery is collected through demand surcharges on Texas
Gas' firm transportation rates; the remaining 10 percent is recoverable from
interruptible transportation service.
 
     The foregoing accruals are in accordance with Williams' accounting policies
regarding the establishment of such accruals, which take into consideration
estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk-weighted, as well as costs and
other risks associated with the difference between the time costs are incurred
and the time such costs are recovered from customers. The estimated portion of
such costs recoverable from customers is deferred or recorded as a regulatory
asset based on an estimate of expected recovery of the amounts allowed by FERC
policy. While Williams believes that these accruals are adequate and the
associated regulatory assets are appropriate, costs actually incurred and
amounts actually recovered from customers will depend upon the outcome of
various court and FERC proceedings, the success of settlement negotiations and
various other factors, not all of which are presently foreseeable.
 
  Environmental matters
 
     Since 1989, Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line have had studies
under way to test certain of their facilities for the presence of toxic and
hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation may be
necessary. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line has responded to data requests
regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites. The costs of any
such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation. At December 31,
1996, these subsidiaries had reserves totaling approximately $29 million for
these costs.
 
     Certain Williams subsidiaries, including Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, have been identified as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at
various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. Although no assurances can be
given, Williams does not believe that the PRP status of these subsidiaries will
have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations
or net cash flows.
 
     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Williams Natural Gas have
identified polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in air compressor
systems, soils and related properties at certain compressor station sites.
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Williams Natural Gas have also
been involved in negotiations with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) and state agencies to develop screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In
addition, negotiations with certain environmental authorities and other programs
concerning investigative and remedial actions relative to potential mercury
contamination at certain gas metering sites have been commenced by Williams
Natural Gas, Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line. As of December 31,
1996, Williams Natural Gas had recorded a liability for approximately $18
million, representing the current estimate of future environmental cleanup costs
to be incurred over the next six to 10 years. The Field Services unit of
Williams Energy Group has recorded an aggregate liability of approximately $15
million, representing the current estimate of their future environmental and
remediation costs, including approximately $6 million relating to former
Williams Natural Gas facilities. Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line
likewise have recorded liabilities for these costs which are included in the
 
                                      F-40

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
$29 million reserve mentioned above. Actual costs incurred will depend on the
actual number of contaminated sites identified, the actual amount and extent of
contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and
other governmental authorities and other factors. Texas Gas, Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line and Williams Natural Gas have deferred these costs pending
recovery as incurred through future rates and other means.
 
     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company,
Williams agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs
resulting from certain conditions at specified locations, to the extent such
costs exceed a specified amount. It appears certain that such costs will exceed
this amount. At December 31, 1996, Williams had approximately $10 million
accrued for such excess costs. The actual costs incurred will depend on the
actual amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup
standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other
factors.
 
     A lawsuit was filed in May 1993, in a state court in Colorado in which
certain claims have been made against various defendants, including Northwest
Pipeline, contending that gas exploration and development activities in portions
of the San Juan Basin have caused air, water and other contamination. The
plaintiffs in the case sought certification of a plaintiff class. In June 1994,
the lawsuit was dismissed for failure to join an indispensable party over which
the state court had no jurisdiction. The Colorado Court of Appeals has affirmed
the dismissal and remanded the case to Colorado district court for action
consistent with the appeals court's decision. Since June 1994, eight individual
lawsuits have been filed against Northwest Pipeline and others in U.S. District
Court in Colorado, making essentially the same claims. Northwest Pipeline is
vigorously defending these lawsuits.
 
  Other legal matters
 
     In 1991, the Southern Ute Indian Tribe (the Tribe) filed a lawsuit against
Williams Production, a wholly owned subsidiary of Williams, and other gas
producers in the San Juan Basin area, alleging that certain coal strata were
reserved by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe and that the
extraction of coal-seam gas from the coal strata was wrongful. The Tribe seeks
compensation for the value of the coal-seam gas. The Tribe also seeks an order
transferring to the Tribe ownership of all of the defendants' equipment and
facilities utilized in the extraction of the coal-seam gas. In September 1994,
the court granted summary judgment in favor of the defendants and the Tribe
lodged an interlocutory appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth
Circuit. Williams Production agreed to indemnify the Williams Coal Seam Gas
Royalty Trust (Trust) against any losses that may arise in respect of certain
properties subject to the lawsuit. In addition, if the Tribe is successful in
showing that Williams Production has no rights in the coal-seam gas, Williams
Production has agreed to pay to the Trust for distribution to then-current
unitholders, an amount representing a return of a portion of the original
purchase price paid for the units. While Williams believes that such a payment
is not probable, it has reserved a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the
units in the Trust.
 
     In October 1990, Dakota Gasification Company (Dakota), the owner of the
Great Plains Coal Gasification Plant (Plant), filed suit in the U.S. District
Court in North Dakota against Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and three other
pipeline companies alleging that the pipeline companies had not complied with
their respective obligations under certain gas purchase and gas transportation
contracts. In September 1992, Dakota and the Department of Justice on behalf of
the Department of Energy filed an amended complaint adding as defendants in the
suit, Transco Energy Company, Transco Coal Gas Company and all of the other
partners in the partnership that originally constructed the Plant and each of
the parent companies of these entities. Dakota and the Department of Justice
sought declaratory and injunctive relief and the recovery of damages, alleging
that the four pipeline defendants underpaid for gas, collectively, as of June
30, 1992, by more than $232 million plus interest and for additional damages for
transportation services and costs and expenses including attorneys' fees. By
order dated December 18, 1996, the FERC approved a settlement of the
 
                                      F-41

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
litigation. No party to the FERC proceeding has sought review of this order. The
final settlement terms went into effect February 1, 1997, which will allow
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line to recover its cost.
 
     In connection with agreements to resolve take-or-pay and other contract
claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and
Texas Gas each entered into certain settlements with producers, which may
require the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties which the
producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. As a result of
such settlements, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and Texas Gas were named as
defendants in, respectively, six and two lawsuits. Six of the eight lawsuits
have been settled for cash payments aggregating approximately $9 million, all of
which have previously been accrued, and of which approximately $3 million is
recoverable as transition costs under Order 636. Damages, including interest, of
approximately $29 million have been asserted in the remaining cases. Producers
have received and may receive other demands, which could result in additional
claims. Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among other things, the
specific lease provisions between the producer and the lessor and the terms of
the settlement between the producer and either Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line or
Texas Gas. Texas Gas may file to recover 75 percent of any such additional
amounts it may be required to pay pursuant to indemnities for royalties under
the provisions of Order 528.
 
     In November 1994, Continental Energy Associates Limited Partnership (the
Partnership) filed a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code
with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania. The Partnership
owns a cogeneration facility in Hazelton, Pennsylvania (the Facility). Hazelton
Fuel Management Company (HFMC), a subsidiary of Transco Energy, formerly
supplied natural gas and fuel oil to the Facility. As of December 31, 1996, HFMC
had current outstanding receivables from the Partnership of approximately $20
million, all of which have been reserved. The Partnership recently negotiated
settlements of its power purchase agreements with two electric utilities. The
settlements have been approved by the Bankruptcy Court and Pennsylvania Public
Utility Commission. The time for appealing the Pennsylvania Public Utility
Commission approval of the settlements expires on February 23, 1997. Assuming no
appeals are filed the settlements will become binding. A Plan of Reorganization
(the Plan) acceptable to all parties has been negotiated and drafted. The Plan
is contingent upon the power purchase agreement settlements being approved. It
is anticipated the Plan will be filed with the Bankruptcy Court for approval on
or before February 28, 1997. Under the Plan, all litigation involving HFMC will
be fully settled, and a net payment in some amount to HFMC is anticipated under
the Plan. It is not possible to predict with certainty the amount of such a
payment.
 
     On July 18, 1996, an individual filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Columbia against 70 natural gas pipelines and other gas
purchasers or former gas purchasers. All of Williams' natural gas pipeline
subsidiaries are named as defendants in the lawsuit. The plaintiff claims, on
behalf of the United States under the False Claims Act, that the pipelines have
incorrectly measured the heating value or volume of gas purchased by the
defendants. The plaintiff claims that the United States has lost royalty
payments as a result of these practices. The pipelines are vigorously defending
against these claims.
 
     In addition to the foregoing, various other proceedings are pending against
Williams or its subsidiaries which are incidental to their operations.
 
  Summary
 
     While no assurances may be given, Williams does not believe that the
ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after
consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery from customers or
other indemnification arrangements, will have a materially adverse effect upon
Williams' future financial position, results of operations and cash flow
requirements.
 
                                      F-42

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
     Summarized quarterly financial data are as follows (millions, except
per-share amounts). Per-share amounts have been restated to reflect the effect
of the three-for-two common stock split and distribution (see Note 14).
 

 

 
     The sum of earnings per share for the four quarters may not equal the total
earnings per share for the year due to changes in the average number of common
shares outstanding.
 
     Second-quarter 1996 net income includes recognition of favorable income tax
adjustments totaling $10 million related to research credits and previously
provided deferred income taxes on certain regulated capital projects.
Third-quarter 1996 net income includes approximately $6 million, net of federal
income tax effect, from the effects of state income tax adjustments related to
1995.
 
     First-quarter 1995 net income includes the after-tax gain of $1 billion on
the sale of Williams' network services operations (see Note 3 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements). The second quarter of 1995 includes a $16
million after-tax gain from the sale of Williams' 15 percent interest in
Texasgulf Inc. (see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and an
$8 million income tax benefit resulting from settlements with taxing
authorities. Northwest Pipeline's third-quarter 1995 operating profit includes
the approximate $11 million net favorable effect of two reserve accrual
adjustments. In third-quarter 1995, Field Services recorded $20 million of
income from the favorable resolution of contingency issues involving previously
regulated gathering and processing assets. In third-quarter 1995, Exploration
and Production recorded an $8 million loss accrual for a future minimum price
natural gas purchase commitment.
 
                                      F-43

 
     Selected comparative fourth-quarter data are as follows (millions, except
per-share amounts). Certain 1995 amounts have been restated and/or reclassified
as described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

 
     Field Services' fourth-quarter 1996 operating profit includes a gain of
approximately $20 million from the property insurance coverage associated with
construction of replacement gathering facilities. In addition, 1996 segment
operating profit and general corporate expenses together include approximately
$10 million related to an all-employee bonus that was linked to achieving record
financial performance. In fourth-quarter 1996, Williams recognized a pre-tax
gain of $15.7 million from the sale of certain communication rights.
 
     Merchant Services' fourth-quarter 1995 operating profit includes loss
accruals of approximately $6 million, primarily related to contract disputes. In
fourth-quarter 1995, the development of a commercial coal gasification venture
in south-central Wyoming was canceled, resulting in a $41.4 million pre-tax
charge (see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
Fourth-quarter 1995 income from discontinued operations reflects the after-tax
effect of the reversal of accruals established at the time of the sale of the
network services operations (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     None.
 
                                      F-44

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               ITEM 14(A) 1 AND 2
 

 
     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial
statements and notes thereto.
 
                                      F-45

 
                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
 
              SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS(a)
 

 
- ---------------
 
(a) Deducted from related assets.
 
(b) Represents balances written off, net of recoveries and reclassifications.
 
(c) Primarily relates to acquisitions of businesses.
 
(d) Excludes $5.7 million related to discontinued operations.
 
(e) Includes the discontinued operations beginning balance reclassification of
    $3.6 million.
 
                                      F-46

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The information regarding the Directors and nominees for Director of
Williams required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is presented under the heading
"Election of Directors" in Williams' Proxy Statement prepared for the
solicitation of proxies in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
the Company for 1997 (the "Proxy Statement"), which information is incorporated
by reference herein. A copy of the Proxy Statement is filed as an exhibit to the
Form 10-K. Information regarding the executive officers of Williams is presented
following Item 4 herein, as permitted by General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K
and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K. Information required by Item
405 of Regulation S-K is included under the heading "Compliance with Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K regarding executive
compensation is presented under the headings "Election of Directors" and
"Executive Compensation and Other Information" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the information provided under the headings "Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation" and "Stockholder Return Performance Presentation" in the
Proxy Statement are not incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the Proxy
Statement is filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     The information regarding the security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is presented under
the headings "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in
the Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein. A
copy of the Proxy Statement is filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     There is no information regarding certain relationships and related
transactions required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K to be reported.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (a) 1 and 2. The financial statements and schedule listed in the
accompanying index to consolidated financial statements are filed as part of
this annual report.
 
     (a) 3 and (c). The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this annual
report.
 
          Exhibit 2 --
 
             *(a) Stock Purchase Agreement by and among LDDS Communications,
        Inc., The Williams Companies, Inc., and WTG Holdings, Inc., dated as of
        August 22, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 2 to Williams Form 8-K, filed August
        22, 1994).
 
             *(b) Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 12, 1994,
        among Williams, WC Acquisition Corp. and Transco (filed as Exhibit
        (c)(1) to Schedule 14D-1, dated December 16, 1994).
 
             *(c) Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
        February 17, 1995 (filed as Exhibit 6 to Amendment No. 8 to Schedule
        13D, dated February 23, 1995).
 
                                      F-47

 
          Exhibit 3 --
 
             *(a) Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Williams (filed as
        Exhibit 4(a) to Form 8-B Registration Statement, filed August 20, 1987).
 
             *(b) Certificate of Designation with respect to the $2.21
        Cumulative Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration
        Statement on Form S-3, filed August 19, 1992).
 
             *(c) Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of
        Incorporation, dated May 20, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 3(d) to Form 10-K
        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).
 
             *(d) Certificate of Designation with respect to the $3.50
        Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 3.1(c) to the
        Prospectus and Information Statement to Amendment No. 2 to the
        Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed March 30, 1995).
 
             *(e) Certificate of Increase of Authorized Number of Shares of
        Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 3(f) to
        Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995).
 
             *(f) Rights Agreement, dated as of February 6, 1996, between
        Williams and First Chicago Trust Company of New York (filed as Exhibit 4
        to Williams Form 8-K, filed January 24, 1996).
 
             *(g) By-laws of Williams, as amended (filed, as amended, as Exhibit
        3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996).
 
          Exhibit 4 --
 
             *(a) Form of Senior Debt Indenture between the Company and Chase
        Manhattan Bank (formerly Chemical Bank), Trustee, relating to the
        10 1/4% Debentures, due 2020; the 9 3/8% Debentures, due 2021; the
        8 1/4% Notes, due 1998; Medium-Term Notes (8.50%-9.31%), due 1998
        through 2001; the 7 1/2% Notes, due 1999, and the 8 7/8% Debentures, due
        2012 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Form S-3 Registration Statement No.
        33-33294, filed February 2, 1990).
 
             *(b) Form of Subordinated Debt Indenture between the Company and
        Chase Manhattan Bank (formerly Chemical Bank), Trustee, relating to
        9.60% Quarterly Income Capital Securities, due 2025 (filed as Exhibit
        4.2 to Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-60397, filed June 20,
        1995).
 
             (c) U.S. $1,000,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement,
        dated as of December 20, 1996, among Williams and certain of its
        subsidiaries and the banks named therein and Citibank, N.A., as agent.
 
          Exhibit 10(iii) -- Compensatory Plans and Management Contracts
 
             *(a) The Williams Companies, Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan,
        effective as of January 1, 1988 (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(c) to Form
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987).
 
             *(b) Form of Employment Agreement, dated January 1, 1990, between
        Williams and certain executive officers (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(d) to
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989).
 
             *(c) Form of The Williams Companies, Inc. Change in Control
        Protection Plan between Williams and employees (filed as Exhibit
        10(iii)(e) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989).
 
             *(d) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1985 Stock Option Plan (filed as
        Exhibit A to Williams' Proxy Statement, dated March 13, 1985).
 
             *(e) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan for
        Non-Employee Directors (filed as Exhibit A to Williams' Proxy Statement,
        dated March 14, 1988).
 
             *(f) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1990 Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit
        A to Williams' Proxy Statement, dated March 12, 1990).
 
                                      F-48

 
             *(g) The Williams Companies, Inc. Stock Plan for Non-Officer
        Employees (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(g) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year
        ended December 31, 1995).
 
             *(h) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit
        A to Williams' Proxy Statement, dated March 27, 1996).
 
             *(i) The Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan for Non-Employee
        Directors (filed as Exhibit B to Williams' Proxy Statement, dated March
        27, 1996).
 
             *(j) Indemnification Agreement, effective as of August 1, 1986,
        between Williams and members of the Board of Directors and certain
        officers of Williams (filed as Exhibit 10(iii)(e) to Form 10-K for the
        year ended December 31, 1986).
 
        Exhibit 11  -- Computation of Earnings Per Common and Common-equivalent
                       Share.
 
        Exhibit 12  -- Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed
                       Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.
 
        Exhibit 20  -- Definitive Proxy Statement of Williams for 1997 (as filed
                       with the Commission on March 26, 1997).
 
        Exhibit 21  -- Subsidiaries of the registrant.
 
        Exhibit 23  -- Consent of Independent Auditors.
 
        Exhibit 24  -- Power of Attorney together with certified resolution.
 
        Exhibit 27  -- Financial Data Schedule.
 
        Exhibit 27.1 -- Restated Financial Data Schedule for the year ended
                        December 31, 1995.
 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
          On December 30, 1996, the Company filed a report on Form 8-K to report
     the Company's distribution of one share of Common Stock of the Company, $1
     par value, for every two shares of Common Stock outstanding on December 6,
     1996, pursuant to a three-for-two stock split.
 
     (d) The financial statements of partially-owned companies are not presented
herein since none of them individually, or in the aggregate, constitute a
significant subsidiary.
- ---------------
 
* Each such exhibit has heretofore been filed with the Securities and Exchange
  Commission as part of the filing indicated and is incorporated herein by
  reference.
 
                                      F-49

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                           THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
                                                 (Registrant)
 
                                            By:     /s/ SHAWNA L. BARNARD
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                      Shawna L. Barnard
                                                       Attorney-in-fact
 
Dated: March 26, 1997
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 

 
                                      II-1

 

 
*By     /s/ SHAWNA L. BARNARD
    --------------------------------
           Shawna L. Barnard
            Attorney-in-fact
 
Dated: March 26, 1997
 
                                      II-2

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
                                      II-3

