
10-K405
d84653e10-k405.txt
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END DECEMBER 31, 2000




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)
     [X]         ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                       OR

     [ ]       TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4174

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



              Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                  918-573-2000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting and non-voting stock
held by non-affiliates as of the close of business on February 28, 2001, was
approximately $20,153,606,790 billion.

     The number of shares of the registrant's common stock held by
non-affiliates outstanding at February 28, 2001, was 483,299,923.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement being prepared for the
solicitation of proxies in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
Williams for 2001 are incorporated by reference in Part III.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                                   FORM 10-K

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

     The Williams Companies, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State
of Nevada in 1949 and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
in 1987. The principal executive offices of Williams are located at One Williams
Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172 (telephone (918) 573-2000).

     On October 6, 1999, a subsidiary of Williams, Williams Communications
Group, Inc., closed an initial public offering by selling shares of its Class A
common stock to the public. In separate private placements, SBC Communications
Inc., Intel Corporation and Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. each purchased a
portion of the Class A common stock. Williams owns 100 percent of Williams
Communications' outstanding Class B common stock, which gives Williams
approximately 98 percent of the voting power of Williams Communications. In
addition, on February 26, 2001, Williams and Williams Communications entered
into an agreement under which Williams contributed an outstanding promissory
note from Williams Communications of approximately $975 million and certain
other assets to Williams Communications in exchange for 24,265,892 shares of
Williams Communications' Class A common stock. Williams owns approximately 86
percent of Williams Communications.

     Williams has announced that its board of directors has authorized its
management to take steps that may lead to a tax-free distribution of Williams
Communications' shares held by Williams to its shareholders. Assuming that
market conditions and other factors continue to support such a tax-free
spin-off, Williams has announced that its board of directors would expect to
vote during the first half of 2001 to set a record date, the ratio of a share of
Williams Communications stock that will be issued for each share of Williams
stock, and to direct the distribution of Williams Communications shares.
Williams is also evaluating several credit support mechanisms to further enable
Williams Communications to obtain the capital needed to allow it to continue to
execute its growth plan and business strategy.

     On October 11, 2000, a unit of Williams Energy acquired the natural gas
liquids (NGL) portion of TransCanada's midstream operations. The assets, located
in western Canada, represent a total of approximately six billion cubic feet per
day of gas processing capacity, approximately 225,000 barrels per day of NGL
production capacity, an NGL pipeline system and more than five million barrels
of NGL storage capacity. The total purchase price was $540 million U.S. dollars.

     On January 29, 2001, Williams announced that Williams Communications, LLC
had signed a contract with Platinum Equity, LLC, to sell its Houston-based
enterprise services business unit, Williams Communications Solutions, LLC.
Platinum Equity will acquire Solutions' United States and Mexico operations,
which offer a full range of enterprise voice and data solutions. The sale is
anticipated to be final by the end of the first quarter of 2001. Williams
Communications also announced its intent to sell during 2001 the remaining
Canadian operations of Solutions.

(b) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

     See Part II, Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

(c) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

     Williams, through Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC and Williams Energy
Services, LLC and their subsidiaries, engages in the following types of
energy-related activities:

     - transportation and storage of natural gas and related activities through
       operation and ownership of five wholly owned interstate natural gas
       pipelines and several pipeline joint ventures;



     - exploration and production of oil and gas through ownership of 1.2
       trillion cubic feet equivalent of proved natural gas reserves primarily
       located in Colorado, New Mexico and Wyoming;

     - natural gas gathering, processing and treating activities through
       ownership and operation of approximately 11,300 miles of gathering lines,
       11 natural gas treating plants and 17 natural gas processing plants
       (three of which are partially owned) located in the United States and
       Canada;

     - natural gas liquids transportation through ownership and operation of
       approximately 14,300 miles of natural gas liquids pipeline (4,568 miles
       of which are partially owned);

     - transportation of petroleum products and related terminal services
       through ownership or operation of approximately 9,170 miles of petroleum
       products pipeline and 78 petroleum products terminals;

     - light hydrocarbon/olefin transportation through 300 miles of pipeline in
       Southern Louisiana;

     - ethylene production through a 5/12 interest in a 1.2 billion pound per
       year facility in Geismar, Louisiana;

     - production and marketing of ethanol and bio-products through operation
       and ownership of two ethanol plants (one of which is partially owned) and
       ownership of minority interests or investments in four other plants;

     - refining of petroleum products through operation and ownership of two
       refineries;

     - retail marketing through 227 convenience stores (198 of which are to be
       sold in 2001) and 50 travel centers; and

     - energy commodity marketing and trading.

     Williams, through subsidiaries, also directly invests in energy projects
primarily in South America, Lithuania and Canada and continues to explore and
develop additional projects for international investments. It also invests in
energy and infrastructure development funds in Asia and Latin America.

     Williams, through Williams Communications Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries,
engages in communications-related activities. Following its decision to sell its
Solutions segment, Williams Communications operates through three operating
segments: Network, Broadband Media and Strategic Investments. Network owns or
leases and operates a nationwide inter-city fiber-optic network, which it is
extending locally and globally to provide Internet, data, voice and video
services exclusively to communications service providers. Network also includes
a publicly traded Australian telecommunications company and various other
investments that drive bandwidth usage on Williams Communications' network.
Broadband Media includes Vyvx Services which provides live and non-live video
transmission services worldwide for news, sports, advertising and entertainment
events and investments in domestic broadband media communication companies.
Strategic Investments invests in both domestic and foreign companies that it
believes will, directly or indirectly, increase revenue opportunities for its
other segments. As of December 31, 2000, Strategic Investments' foreign
investments are all located in South America. Williams Communications has formed
strategic alliances with communications companies to secure long-term,
high-capacity commitments for traffic on its network and to enhance its service
offerings.

     Substantially all operations of Williams are conducted through
subsidiaries. Williams performs certain management, legal, financial, tax,
consultative, administrative and other services for its subsidiaries and at
December 31, 2000, employed approximately 1,470 employees. Williams' principal
sources of cash are from external financings, dividends and advances from its
subsidiaries, investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered and
interest payments from subsidiaries on cash advances. The amount of dividends
available to Williams from subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary's
earnings and operating capital requirements. The terms of certain subsidiaries'
borrowing arrangements limit the transfer of funds to Williams.

     To achieve organizational and operating efficiencies, Williams' interstate
natural gas pipelines and pipeline joint venture investments are grouped
together under its wholly owned subsidiary, Williams Gas


Pipeline Company, LLC. The other energy operations are primarily grouped into a
wholly owned subsidiary, Williams Energy Services, LLC. The communications
operations, including investments in international communications projects, are
grouped into a majority owned subsidiary, Williams Communications Group, Inc.
The international energy operations are grouped into a wholly owned subsidiary,
Williams International Company. Item 1 of this report is formatted to reflect
this structure.

                             WILLIAMS GAS PIPELINES

     Williams' interstate natural gas pipeline group, comprised of Williams Gas
Pipeline Company, LLC (WGP) and its subsidiaries, owns and operates a combined
total of approximately 27,300 miles of pipelines with a total annual throughput
of approximately 3,800 trillion British Thermal Units of natural gas and peak-
day delivery capacity of approximately 17 billion cubic feet of gas. The gas
pipeline group consists of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation (Transco),
Northwest Pipeline Corporation (Northwest Pipeline), Kern River Gas Transmission
Company (Kern River), Texas Gas Transmission Corporation (Texas Gas) and
Williams Gas Pipelines Central, Inc. (Central). The gas pipeline group also
holds minority interests in joint venture interstate and intrastate natural gas
pipeline systems.

     Williams' gas pipeline group has combined certain administrative functions,
such as human resources, information services, technical services and finance,
of its operating companies in an effort to lower costs and increase efficiency.
Although a single management team manages both Northwest Pipeline and Kern River
and a single management team manages both Texas Gas and Central, each of these
operating companies as well as Transco operates as a separate legal entity. At
December 31, 2000, Williams' gas pipeline group employed approximately 3,375
employees.

     The gas pipeline group's transmission and storage activities are subject to
regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) under the Natural
Gas Act of 1938 and under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA), and, as
such, their rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in
interstate commerce, the extension, enlargement or abandonment of jurisdictional
facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. Each
gas pipeline company holds certificates of public convenience and necessity
issued by the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of all pipelines,
facilities and properties considered jurisdictional for which certificates are
required under the Natural Gas Act. Each gas pipeline company is also subject to
the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended by Title I of the
Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, which regulates safety requirements in the design,
construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipelines.

     As a result of Williams merger with MAPCO Inc. in 1998, Williams acquired
an approximate 4.8 percent investment interest in Alliance Pipeline. On December
31, 1999, Williams acquired an additional 9.8 percent interest in Alliance
Pipeline. Alliance Pipeline consists of two segments, a Canadian segment and a
United States segment. Alliance Pipeline operates an approximate 1,800-mile
natural gas pipeline system extending from northeast British Columbia to the
Chicago, Illinois area market center, where it interconnects with the North
American pipeline grid. On September 17, 1998, the FERC granted a certificate of
public convenience and necessity for the United States portion of the Alliance
pipeline system, and on December 3, 1998, the National Energy Board of Canada
granted a certificate of public convenience and necessity for the Canadian
portion. Construction began in the spring of 1999 and the pipeline was placed in
service on December 1, 2000. Total cost of the Alliance pipeline system was in
excess of $3 billion. At December 31, 2000, Williams investment in Alliance
Pipeline was approximately $184 million.

     Buccaneer Gas Pipeline Company, L.L.C., a wholly owned subsidiary of WGP,
announced in March 1999, that it would accept requests for firm transportation
service to be made available on a proposed new natural gas pipeline system
extending from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida. Buccaneer
planned to construct and operate a pipeline system extending from a point near
Transco's Station 82 in Coden, Alabama across the Gulf of Mexico to the west
coast of Florida just north of Tampa. Buccaneer filed for FERC approval of the
project on October 28, 1999. In February 2000, a subsidiary of Duke Energy
acquired a 50 percent ownership interest in Buccaneer. On November 17, 2000,
subsidiaries of Duke Energy and Williams announced their intent to jointly
purchase The Coastal Corporation's 100 percent interest in


Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C., a pipeline project that directly competes
with Buccaneer. The purchase was completed in February 2001. Subsidiaries of
Duke Energy and Williams are proceeding with the development of the Gulfstream
project in lieu of the Buccaneer pipeline project. On February 22, 2001, the
FERC issued an order authorizing the construction and operation of the
Gulfstream project. The estimated capital cost of the project is approximately
$1.6 billion and the target in-service date is June 2002.

     In June 2000, two wholly owned subsidiaries of WGP purchased 100 percent of
the partnership interests in Cove Point LNG Limited Partnership. On January 30,
2001, Cove Point LNG Limited Partnership filed an application with the FERC to
construct certain new facilities and to reactivate and operate existing
facilities at its liquefied natural gas (LNG) terminal located in Calvert
County, Maryland, and to provide LNG tanker discharging services on a firm and
interruptible basis to shippers importing LNG. Cove Point proposes to reactivate
the LNG import and terminal facilities by April 1, 2002, and to construct and
place in service a new LNG storage tank by September 1, 2003. The proposed LNG
discharging service will consist of the receipt of imported LNG, storage,
vaporization and transportation of vaporized LNG into the interstate pipeline
grid. The estimated cost is $103 million. Cove Point and three shippers executed
20-year binding precedent agreements for 100 percent of the firm LNG discharging
services that will be created by the proposed reactivation project. The Cove
Point facility is currently utilized to provide firm peaking services and firm
and interruptible transportation services.

     Georgia Strait Crossing Pipeline, LP, a subsidiary of WGP, and a subsidiary
of BC Hydro are jointly pursuing the construction of the GSX open-access natural
gas transportation system between Sumas, Washington and Vancouver Island,
British Columbia. The total cost of WGP's 50 percent share of the project is
estimated to be approximately $90 million. The project expected in-service date
is in the fall of 2003.

     Segment revenues and segment profit for Williams' gas pipeline group are
reported in Note 23 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein.

     A business description of the principal companies in the interstate natural
gas pipeline group follows.

TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION

     Transco is an interstate natural gas transportation company that owns a
10,300-mile natural gas pipeline system extending from Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through Alabama, Georgia, South
Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania and New Jersey to the
New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers in Texas and eleven
southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major metropolitan areas in
Georgia, North Carolina, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Effective May 1,
1995, Transco transferred the operation of certain production area facilities to
Williams Field Services Group, Inc., an affiliated company.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 2000, Transco's system had a mainline delivery capacity of
approximately 4.0 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day from its production
areas to its primary markets. Using its Leidy Line and market-area storage
capacity, Transco can deliver an additional 2.9 billion cubic feet of natural
gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity total of approximately 6.9
billion cubic feet of natural gas per day. Excluding the production area
facilities operated by Williams Field Services Group, Inc., Transco's system is
composed of approximately 7,200 miles of mainline and branch transmission
pipelines, 41 transmission compressor stations and seven storage locations.
Transmission compression facilities at a sea level-rated capacity total
approximately 1.3 million horsepower.

     Transco's major natural gas transportation customers are public utilities
and municipalities that provide service to residential, commercial, industrial
and electric generation end users. Shippers on Transco's system include public
utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users,
electrical generators, gas marketers and producers. No customer accounted for
more than ten percent of Transco's total operating revenues in 2000. Transco's
firm transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with various



expiration dates and account for the major portion of Transco's business.
Additionally, Transco offers interruptible transportation service under
short-term agreements.

     Transco has natural gas storage capacity in five underground storage fields
located on or near its pipeline system and/or market areas and operates three of
these storage fields. Transco also has storage capacity in a liquefied natural
gas (LNG) storage facility and operates the facility. The total top gas storage
capacity available to Transco and its customers in such storage fields and LNG
facility and through storage service contracts is approximately 216 billion
cubic feet of gas. In addition, wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco operate and
hold a 35 percent ownership interest in Pine Needle LNG Company, a LNG storage
facility with 5 billion cubic feet of storage capacity. Storage capacity permits
Transco's customers to inject gas into storage during the summer and off-peak
periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.

  Expansion Projects

     On May 13, 1998, Transco filed an application with the FERC for approval to
construct and operate mainline and Leidy Line facilities (MarketLink) to create
an additional 676 million cubic feet per day of firm transportation capacity to
serve increased demand in the mid-Atlantic and south Atlantic regions of the
United States by a targeted in-service date of November 1, 2000, at an estimated
cost of $529 million. On December 17, 1999, the FERC issued an interim order
giving Transco conditional approval for MarketLink, along with the Independence
Pipeline Project and ANR Pipeline Company's Supply Link Project, but withholding
final certificate authorization until Independence Pipeline Company
(Independence) and ANR Pipeline Company (ANR) file long-term, executed contracts
with nonaffiliated shippers for at least 35% of the capacity of their respective
projects. Transco filed for rehearing of the interim order. On April 26, 2000,
the FERC issued an order on rehearing which authorized Transco to proceed with
the MarketLink project subject to certain conditions. On May 23, 2000, Transco
filed a letter with the FERC accepting the MarketLink certificate. On September
20, 2000, Transco filed an application to amend the certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued in this proceeding to enable Transco to (a)
phase the construction of the MarketLink project to satisfy phased in-service
dates requested by the project shippers, and (b) redesign the recourse rate
based on phased construction of the project. The initial two phases of the
project would consist of 286 million cubic feet per day of firm transportation
service with in-service dates of November 1, 2001, and November 1, 2002. Transco
did not propose in the amendment to change the overall facilities certificated
by the FERC in this proceeding . On December 13, 2000, the FERC issued an order
permitting Transco to construct the MarketLink project in phases as proposed.
The order requires Transco to file executed contracts fully subscribing the
remaining capacity of the project (approximately 390 million cubic feet per day)
by April 13, 2001. Transco accepted the amended certificate on December 21,
2000. Certain parties filed with the FERC requests for rehearing of the December
13, 2000, order and on February 12, 2001, the FERC denied the request.

     In March 1997, as amended in December 1997, Independence filed an
application with FERC for approval to construct and operate a new pipeline
consisting of approximately 400 miles of 36-inch pipe from ANR Pipeline
Company's existing compressor station at Defiance, Ohio to Transco's facilities
at Leidy, Pennsylvania. The Independence Pipeline Project is proposed to provide
approximately 916 million cubic feet per day of firm transportation capacity by
an in-service date of November 2002. Independence is owned equally by
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Transco, ANR and National Fuel Gas Company. The
estimated cost of the project is $678 million, and Transco's equity
contributions are estimated to be approximately $68 million based on its
expected one-third ownership interest in the project. As mentioned above in
connection with the MarketLink Project, on December 17, 1999, the FERC gave
conditional approval for the Independence Pipeline project, subject to
Independence filing long-term, executed contracts with nonaffiliated shippers
for at least 35% of the capacity of the project. Independence filed for
rehearing of the interim order. On April 26, 2000, the FERC issued an order
denying rehearing and requiring that Independence submit by June 26, 2000,
agreements with nonaffiliated shippers for at least 35% of the capacity of the
project. Independence met this requirement, and on July 12, 2000, the FERC
issued an order granting the necessary certificate authorizations on August 11,
2000 for the Independence Pipeline Project. On September 28, 2000,



the FERC issued an order denying all requests for rehearing and requests for
reconsideration of the Independence certificate order filed by various parties.

     On November 1, 2000, Transco placed its SouthCoast Expansion Project into
service. SouthCoast creates approximately 200 million cubic feet per day of
additional firm transportation capacity on Transco's system from the terminus of
Transco's existing Mobile Bay Lateral in Choctaw County, Alabama to delivery
points in Transco's Rate Zone 4 (Alabama and Georgia). The project cost
approximately $108 million.

     On April 3, 2000, Transco filed an application with the FERC for its
Sundance Expansion Project, which would create approximately 228 million cubic
feet per day of additional firm transportation capacity from Transco's Station
65 in Louisiana to delivery points in Georgia, South Carolina and North
Carolina. Approximately 38 miles of new pipeline loop along the existing
mainline system will be installed along with approximately 35,000 horsepower of
new compressors and modifications to existing compressor stations in Georgia,
South Carolina and North Carolina. The project has a target in-service date of
May 2002 and an estimated cost of approximately $134 million. On September 29,
2000, the FERC made a preliminary determination that the Sundance expansion
project is required by the public convenience and necessity, and that Transco
should be granted a certificate subject to the completion of the FERC's pending
environmental review.

     In August 2000, Transco announced an open season for parties interested in
subscribing to firm transportation service under its Momentum Expansion Project,
a proposed expansion of the Transco pipeline system from Station 65 in Louisiana
to Station 165 in Virginia designed to meet increasing natural gas demand in the
southeastern United States. The project has a target in-service date of May 1,
2003. Transco plans to file for FERC approval of the project during the second
quarter of 2001. The capital cost of the project will depend upon the level of
firm market commitment received.

     On July 21, 2000, Cross Bay Pipeline Company, L.L.C. (Cross Bay), a limited
liability company formed between subsidiaries of Transco, Duke Energy and
KeySpan Energy, filed an application with the FERC for approval of its natural
gas pipeline project. The Cross Bay pipeline is designed to increase natural gas
deliveries into the New York City metropolitan area by replacing and uprating
pipeline and installing compression to expand the capacity of Transco's existing
Lower New York Bay Extension by approximately 121 million cubic feet per day.
The project is targeted to be placed into service in December 2002 and is
estimated to cost approximately $59.5 million. Wholly owned subsidiaries of
Transco will operate Cross Bay and have a 37.5 percent ownership interest.

     On April 1, 2000, Transco transferred the non-jurisdictional assets of its
Tilden/McMullen Gathering System to subsidiaries of Williams Field Services
Group, Inc. pursuant to orders granted by the FERC in Docket Nos. CP98-236 and
CP98-242. The facilities consist of approximately 298 miles of 2-inch through
24-inch diameter pipe and the Tilden processing plant, which includes two 1,200
horsepower compressors.

  Operating Statistics

     The following table summarizes transportation data for the periods
indicated (in trillion British Thermal Units):





     Transco's facilities are divided into seven rate zones. Four are located in
the production area, and three are located in the market area. Long-haul
transportation involves gas that Transco receives in one of the production-area
zones and delivers in a market-area zone. Market-area transportation involves
gas that Transco both receives and delivers within the market-area zones.
Production-area transportation involves gas that Transco both receives and
delivers within the production-area zones.

NORTHWEST PIPELINE CORPORATION

     Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transportation company that
owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from the San Juan
Basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado through Colorado,
Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon and Washington to a point on the Canadian border
near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides services for markets in
California, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon and
Washington directly or indirectly through interconnections with other pipelines.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 2000, Northwest Pipeline's system, having a mainline
delivery capacity of approximately 2.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas per
day, was composed of approximately 3,900 miles of mainline and branch
transmission pipelines and 41 compressor stations having sea level-rated
capacity of approximately 317,000 horsepower.

     In 2000, Northwest Pipeline transported natural gas for a total of 152
customers. Transportation customers include distribution companies,
municipalities, interstate and intrastate pipelines, gas marketers and direct
industrial users. The two largest customers of Northwest Pipeline in 2000
accounted for approximately 14.6 percent and 13.6 percent, respectively, of its
total operating revenues. No other customer accounted for more than ten percent
of total operating revenues in 2000. Northwest Pipeline's firm transportation
agreements are generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and
account for the major portion of Northwest Pipeline's business. Additionally,
Northwest Pipeline offers interruptible transportation service under shorter
term agreements.

     As a part of its transportation services, Northwest Pipeline utilizes
underground storage facilities in Utah and Washington enabling it to balance
daily receipts and deliveries. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates a
liquefied natural gas storage facility in Washington that provides a
needle-peaking service for its system. These storage facilities have an
aggregate delivery capacity of approximately 1.4 billion cubic feet of gas per
day.

  Expansion Projects

     Northwest Pipeline has proposed an expansion project to add approximately
175,000 dekatherms per day of firm transportation capacity to its transmission
system in Wyoming and Idaho. The expansion project is expected to cost
approximately $124 million. Northwest Pipeline plans to file for FERC approval
of this expansion project during the second quarter of 2001 and will seek
rolled-in rate treatment for the expansion facilities.

     In December 2000, Northwest Pipeline announced an open season for parties
interested in subscribing to firm transportation service under its Sumas to
Chehalis Expansion Project, a proposed expansion of its pipeline system along
the Interstate 5 highway corridor from Sumas to Chehalis, Washington. The
expansion project has a target in-service date of June 1, 2003. The capital cost
of the expansion project will depend upon the final level of firm market
commitment received during the open season. Northwest Pipeline plans to file for
FERC approval of the project during the second quarter of 2001.

     In December 2000, Northwest Pipeline filed for FERC approval to construct
the Everett Delta Lateral expansion project to serve two customers located in
Washington. The customers include a proposed power plant and an existing gas
distribution company. The design capacity of the lateral line is 133,000
dekatherms



per day and the estimated cost of the expansion project is $17.2 million. The
customers served by this lateral line will pay for the cost of service of the
lateral line on an incremental rate basis.

  Operating Statistics

     The following table summarizes transportation data for the periods
indicated (in trillion British Thermal Units):



KERN RIVER GAS TRANSMISSION COMPANY

     Kern River is an interstate natural gas transportation company that owns
and operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from Wyoming through Utah
and Nevada to California. Gas transported on the Kern River pipeline is used in
enhanced oil recovery operations in the heavy oil fields and other markets in
California. Gas is also transported to other natural gas consumers in Utah,
southern Nevada and southern California for use in the production of
electricity, cogeneration of electricity and steam and other applications. The
system commenced operations in February 1992.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 2000, Kern River's system was composed of approximately 930
miles of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and five compressor stations
having a mainline designed delivery capacity of approximately 700 million cubic
feet of natural gas per day. The pipeline system interconnects with the pipeline
facilities of another pipeline company at Daggett, California. From the point of
interconnection, Kern River and the other pipeline company have a common
219-mile pipeline which is owned 63.6 percent by Kern River and 36.4 percent by
the other pipeline company, as tenants in common, and is designed to accommodate
the combined throughput of both systems. This common facility has a designed
delivery capacity of 1.1 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day.

     In 2000, Kern River transported natural gas for customers in California,
Nevada and Utah. Kern River transported natural gas for use in enhanced oil
recovery operations in the heavy oil fields in California and transported to
other natural gas consumers in Utah, southern Nevada and southern California for
use in the production of electricity, cogeneration of electricity and steam and
other applications. The three largest customers of Kern River in 2000 accounted
for approximately 19.5 percent, 15.5 percent and 11 percent, respectively, of
its total operating revenues. No other customer accounted for more than ten
percent of total operating revenues in 2000. Kern River transports natural gas
for customers under firm long-term transportation agreements totaling
approximately 700 million cubic feet of natural gas per day.

  Expansion Projects

     On November 15, 2000, Kern River filed an application with the FERC to
construct and operate an expansion of its pipeline which will provide an
additional 124,500 dekatherms per day of firm transportation capacity from
Wyoming to markets in California. The Expansion I Project would include the
construction of three new compressor stations, an additional compressor at an
existing facility in Wyoming, restaging a compressor in Utah, and upgrading two
meter stations. The cost of the project will be approximately $80 million and
the targeted completion date is May 1, 2002.

     In January 2001, Kern River announced an open season for parties interested
in subscribing to firm transportation service under its Expansion II Project, a
proposed expansion of the pipeline system to serve primarily power generation
demand in southern Nevada and California. The project has a target in-service
date of May 1, 2003. Kern River plans to file for FERC approval of the project
in the second quarter of 2001.



The capital cost and design of the project will depend upon the final level of
firm market commitment received during the open season.

  Operating Statistics

     The following table summarizes transportation data for the periods
indicated (in trillion British Thermal Units):



TEXAS GAS TRANSMISSION CORPORATION

     Texas Gas is an interstate natural gas transportation company that owns and
operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from the Louisiana Gulf Coast
area and eastern Texas and running generally north and east through Louisiana,
Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky and Indiana to Ohio, with smaller
diameter lines extending into Illinois. Texas Gas's direct market area
encompasses eight states in the South and Midwest, and includes the Memphis,
Tennessee; Louisville, Kentucky; Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio; and Indianapolis,
Indiana metropolitan areas. Texas Gas also has indirect market access to the
Northeast through interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 2000, Texas Gas' system, having a mainline delivery
capacity of approximately 2.8 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day, was
composed of approximately 5,900 miles of mainline, storage and branch
transmission pipelines and 31 compressor stations having a sea level-rated
capacity totaling approximately 557,000 horsepower.

     In 2000, Texas Gas transported natural gas to customers in Louisiana,
Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois and Ohio, and
indirectly to customers in the Northeast. Texas Gas transported gas for 104
distribution companies and municipalities for resale to residential, commercial
and industrial end users. Texas Gas provided transportation services to
approximately 17 industrial customers located along its system. At December 31,
2000, Texas Gas had transportation contracts with approximately 572 shippers.
Transportation shippers include distribution companies, municipalities,
intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users, electrical generators, gas
marketers and producers. The largest customer of Texas Gas in 2000 accounted for
approximately 14.5 percent of its total operating revenues. No other customer
accounted for more than ten percent of total operating revenues in 2000. Texas
Gas' firm transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with
various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Texas Gas's
business. Additionally, Texas Gas offers interruptible transportation and
storage services under agreements that are generally shorter term.

     Texas Gas owns and operates gas storage reservoirs in nine underground
storage fields located on or near its system or market areas. The storage
capacity of Texas Gas' certificated storage fields is approximately 177 billion
cubic feet of natural gas. Texas Gas' storage gas is used in part to meet
operational balancing needs on its system, to meet the requirements of Texas
Gas' firm and interruptible storage customers and to meet the requirements of
Texas Gas' no-notice transportation service, which allows Texas Gas' customers
to temporarily draw from Texas Gas' storage gas to be repaid in-kind during the
following summer season. A large portion of the natural gas delivered by Texas
Gas to its market area is used for space heating, resulting in substantially
higher daily requirements during winter months.



  Operating Statistics

     The following table summarizes transportation data for the periods
indicated (in trillion British Thermal Units):



WILLIAMS GAS PIPELINES CENTRAL, INC.

     Central is an interstate natural gas transportation company that owns and
operates a natural gas pipeline system located in Colorado, Kansas, Missouri,
Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming. The system serves customers in seven
states, including major metropolitan areas in Kansas and Missouri, its chief
market areas.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 2000, Central's system, having a mainline delivery capacity
of approximately 2.3 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day, was composed of
approximately 6,000 miles of mainline and branch transmission and storage
pipelines and 43 compressor stations having a sea level-rated capacity totaling
approximately 224,000 horsepower.

     In 2000, Central transported natural gas to customers in Colorado, Kansas,
Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas and Wyoming. At December 31, 2000, Central
had transportation contracts with approximately 180 shippers serving
approximately 530 cities and towns and 294 industrial customers.

     In 2000, approximately 59 percent of Central's total operating revenues
were generated from gas transportation services to Central's two largest
customers, Kansas Gas Service Company, a division of Oneok, Inc. (approximately
27 percent), and Missouri Gas Energy Company (approximately 32 percent). Kansas
Gas Service Company sells or resells gas to residential, commercial and
industrial customers principally in certain major metropolitan areas of Kansas.
Missouri Gas Energy Company sells or resells gas to residential, commercial and
industrial customers principally in certain major metropolitan areas of
Missouri. No other customer accounted for more than ten percent of operating
revenues in 2000.

     Central's firm transportation agreements have various expiration dates
ranging from one to 20 years, with the majority expiring in three to eight
years. Additionally, Central offers interruptible transportation services under
shorter term agreements.

     Central operates eight underground storage fields with an aggregate natural
gas storage capacity of approximately 43 billion cubic feet and an aggregate
delivery capacity of approximately 1.2 billion cubic feet of natural gas per
day. Central's customers inject gas into these fields when demand is low and
withdraw it to supply their peak requirements. During periods of peak demand,
approximately two-thirds of the firm gas delivered to customers is supplied from
these storage fields. Storage capacity enables Central's system to operate more
uniformly and efficiently during the year.

  Expansion Projects

     In September 2000, Central completed a non-binding open season for parties
interested in subscribing for firm natural gas transportation service under its
Western Frontier Pipeline expansion project, a proposed expansion of the Central
pipeline system from Greeley, Colorado into the panhandle of Oklahoma. On
November 6, 2000, Western Frontier Pipeline Company, L.L.C., a limited liability
company was formed, which is wholly owned by Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC.
Western Frontier Pipeline will provide approximately 540,000 million British
Thermal Units per day of firm transportation service from Wyoming and Colorado
to markets in the Mid-Continent. The project, which will include the
installation of approximately 400 miles of new pipeline and a new compressor
station, has a target in-service date of



November 1, 2003, and an estimated cost of approximately $351 million. Central
plans to complete a binding open season during the first half of 2001 and to
apply for FERC approval during the third quarter of 2001.

  Operating Statistics

     The following table summarizes transportation data for the periods
indicated (in trillion British Thermal Units):



REGULATORY MATTERS

     Each interstate natural gas pipeline company has various regulatory
proceedings pending. Each company establishes its rates primarily through the
FERC's ratemaking process. Key determinants in the ratemaking process are (1)
costs of providing service, including depreciation expense, (2) allowed rate of
return, including the equity component of the capital structure and related
income taxes and (3) volume throughput assumptions. The FERC determines the
allowed rate of return in each rate case. Rate design and the allocation of
costs between the demand and commodity rates also impact profitability. As a
result of these proceedings, the interstate natural gas pipeline companies have
collected a portion of their revenues subject to refund. See Note 20 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for the amount accrued for potential refund at
December 31, 2000.

     Each of the interstate natural gas pipeline companies that were formerly
gas supply merchants have undertaken the reformation of its respective gas
supply contracts. None of the pipeline companies have any significant pending
supplier take-or-pay, ratable-take or minimum-take claims. For information on
outstanding issues with respect to contract reformation, gas purchase
deficiencies and related regulatory issues, see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

COMPETITION

     The FERC continues to regulate each of Williams' interstate natural gas
pipeline companies pursuant to the Natural Gas Act and the NGPA. Competition for
natural gas transportation has intensified in recent years due to customer
access to other pipelines, rate competitiveness among pipelines, customers'
desire to have more than one transporter and regulatory developments. Future
utilization of pipeline capacity will depend on competition from other
pipelines, use of alternative fuels, the general level of natural gas demand and
weather conditions. Electricity and distillate fuel oil are the primary
competitive forms of energy for residential and commercial markets. Coal and
residual fuel oil compete for industrial and electric generation markets.
Nuclear and hydroelectric power and power purchased from electric transmission
grid arrangements among electric utilities also compete with gas-fired electric
generation in certain markets.

     Suppliers of natural gas are able to compete for any gas markets capable of
being served by pipelines using nondiscriminatory transportation services
provided by the pipeline companies. As the regulated environment has matured,
many pipeline companies have faced reduced levels of subscribed capacity as
contractual terms expire and customers opt to reduce firm capacity under
contract in favor of alternative sources of transmission and related services.
This situation, known in the industry as "capacity turnback," is forcing the
pipeline companies to evaluate the consequences of major demand reductions in
traditional long-term contracts. It could also result in significant shifts in
system utilization, and possible realignment of cost structure for remaining
customers since all interstate natural gas pipeline companies continue to be
authorized to charge maximum rates approved by the FERC on a cost of service
basis.

     Williams is aware that several state jurisdictions have been involved in
implementing changes similar to the changes that have occurred at the federal
level. States, including New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Georgia,
Delaware, Virginia, California, Wyoming, Kentucky and Indiana, are currently at
various



points in the process of unbundling services at local distribution companies.
Management expects the implementation of these changes to encourage greater
competition in the natural gas marketplace.

OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY

     Each of Williams' interstate natural gas pipeline companies generally owns
its facilities in fee, with certain portions, such as certain offshore
facilities, being held jointly with third parties. However, a substantial
portion of each pipeline company's facilities is constructed and maintained
pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses or consents on and
across properties owned by others. Compressor stations, with appurtenant
facilities, are located in whole or in part either on lands owned or on sites
held under leases or permits issued or approved by public authorities. The
storage facilities are either owned or contracted under long-term leases or
easements.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Each interstate natural gas pipeline is subject to the National
Environmental Policy Act and federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that, with
respect to any capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses
required to meet applicable environmental standards and regulations, the FERC
would grant the requisite rate relief so that, for the most part, the pipeline
companies could recover these expenditures in their rates. For this reason,
management believes that compliance with applicable environmental requirements
by the interstate pipeline companies is not likely to have a material effect
upon Williams' earnings or competitive position.

     For a discussion of specific environmental issues involving the interstate
pipelines, including estimated cleanup costs associated with certain pipeline
activities, see "Environmental" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and "Environmental Matters" in
Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                            WILLIAMS ENERGY SERVICES

     Williams Energy Services, LLC is comprised of four major business units:
Exploration & Production, Midstream Gas & Liquids, Petroleum Services and Energy
Marketing & Trading. Through its business units, Williams Energy engages in
energy exploration and production activities; natural gas gathering, processing
and treating; natural gas liquids transportation, fractionation and storage;
petroleum products transportation and terminal services; ethanol production;
refining; ethylene production; light hydrocarbon/olefin transportation;
convenience store retailing; and energy commodity marketing and trading.

     Williams Energy, through its subsidiaries, owns 1.2 trillion cubic feet
equivalent of proved natural gas reserves located primarily in New Mexico,
Wyoming and Colorado, and owns or operates approximately 11,300 miles of
gathering pipelines (including certain gathering lines owned by Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line Corporation but operated by Midstream Gas & Liquids),
approximately 14,300 miles of natural gas liquids pipelines, 11 natural gas
treating plants, 17 natural gas processing plants (three of which are partially
owned), 78 petroleum products terminals, two ethanol production facilities (one
of which is partially owned), two refineries, 277 convenience stores (198 of
which are to be sold in 2001)/travel centers and approximately 9,170 miles of
petroleum products pipeline. Physical volumes marketed and traded by
subsidiaries of Williams Energy are set forth in detail below. At December 31,
2000, Williams Energy, through its subsidiaries, employed approximately 8,600
employees.

     Segment revenues and segment profit for Williams Energy's business units
are reported in Note 23 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein.

     A business description of each of Williams Energy's business units follows.



EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION

     Williams Energy, through its wholly owned subsidiary Williams Production
Company in its Exploration & Production unit (E&P), owns and operates producing
natural gas leasehold properties in the United States. In addition, E&P is
exploring for oil and natural gas.

  Oil and Gas Properties

     E&P's properties are located primarily in the Rocky Mountains and Gulf
Coast areas. Rocky Mountain properties are located in New Mexico, Wyoming and
Colorado. Gulf Coast properties are located in Louisiana and east and south
Texas.

  Gas Reserves

     At December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, E&P had proved developed natural gas
reserves of 603 billion cubic feet equivalent, 548 billion cubic feet equivalent
and 476 billion cubic feet equivalent, respectively, and proved undeveloped
reserves of 599 billion cubic feet equivalent, 504 billion cubic feet equivalent
and 232 billion cubic feet equivalent, respectively. Of E&P's total proved
reserves, 64 percent are located in the San Juan Basin of Colorado and New
Mexico, and 34 percent are located in Wyoming. No major discovery or other
favorable or adverse event has caused a significant change in estimated gas
reserves since year end.

  Customers and Operations

     At December 31, 2000, the gross and net developed leasehold acres owned by
E&P totaled 311,519 and 129,477, respectively, and the gross and net undeveloped
acres owned were 351,653 and 98,047, respectively. At December 31, 2000, E&P
owned interests in 3,612 gross producing wells (733 net) on its leasehold lands.

  Operating Statistics

     The following tables summarize drilling activity for the periods indicated:





     The majority of E&P's gas production is currently being sold in the spot
market at market prices. In 2000, E&P hedged approximately 50 percent of its
production and, as a result of an increase in spot prices, realized prices were
less than market. Total net production sold during 2000, 1999 and 1998 was 65.6
billion cubic feet equivalent, 57.9 billion cubic feet equivalent and 43.2
billion cubic feet equivalent, respectively. The average production costs
including production taxes per million cubic feet of gas produced were $.57,
$.46 and $.37, in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The average wellhead sales
price per million cubic feet was $2.67, $1.48 and $1.31, respectively, for the
same periods.

     In 1993, E&P conveyed a net profits interest in certain of its properties
to the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust. Substantially all of the production
attributable to the properties conveyed to the Trust was from the Fruitland coal
formation and constituted coal seam gas. Williams subsequently sold trust units
to the



public in an underwritten public offering and retained 3,568,791 trust units
representing 36.8 percent of outstanding trust units. During 2000, Williams sold
its trust units as part of a Section 29 tax credit transaction.

MIDSTREAM GAS & LIQUIDS

     Williams Energy, through Williams Field Services Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries, Williams Energy (Canada), Inc. and its subsidiaries, Williams
Natural Gas Liquids, Inc. and its subsidiaries and Williams Midstream Natural
Gas Liquids, Inc. (collectively Midstream Gas & Liquids), owns and operates
natural gas gathering, processing and treating, and natural gas liquids
transportation, fractionation and storage facilities in northwestern New Mexico,
southwestern Colorado, southwestern Wyoming, eastern Utah, northwestern
Oklahoma, Kansas, northern Missouri, eastern Nebraska, Iowa, southern Minnesota,
Tennessee, central Alberta and western British Columbia, Canada and also in
areas offshore and onshore in Texas, Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana.
Midstream Gas & Liquids also operates gathering facilities owned by
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, an affiliated interstate natural gas
pipeline company, that are currently regulated by the FERC.

  Acquisitions

     On October 11, 2000, Williams completed an acquisition of the natural gas
liquids portion of TransCanada's midstream operations. The assets are
strategically located along the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin, Canada's
largest gas supply with significant production growth potential. The overall
asset package adds approximately 6 billion cubic feet per day of gas processing
capacity, 225,000 barrels per day of NGL production capacity and more than 5
million barrels of NGL storage capacity to Williams' existing asset base. The
acquisition includes infrastructure extending from the West Stoddart and Younger
Plants in northeastern British Columbia through the Redwater facility and the
Cochrane plant in central and southern Alberta, to the Empress II and Empress V
plants along the Alberta-Saskatchewan border. With the exception of the Younger
plant (43.5 percent owned) and Empress V plant under construction (50 percent
owned), all plants are 100 percent owned by Williams.

  Expansion Projects

     During 2000, Midstream Gas & Liquids continued to expand its operations in
the Gulf Coast region by entering into operating leases of new deepwater
gathering and transportation facilities and an on-shore gas processing facility,
each of which is currently under construction. Midstream's deepwater expansion
efforts recently included agreements to gather and transport oil and natural gas
production developments operated by Kerr-McGee Corporation in the East Breaks
area of the western Gulf of Mexico. In order to provide these services to
Kerr-McGee and other future prospects, two 41-mile gathering and transportation
pipeline systems to move gas and oil produced by the Nansen and Boomvang
prospects will be constructed. Construction has begun on a 300 million cubic
feet per day Markham Cyrogenic plant near Markham, Texas to process the gas
flows generated from the East Breaks infrastructure. Upon completion of the
above projects, expected to be completed by the end of 2001, Midstream Gas &
Liquids will lease these facilities. The total estimated cost of these
facilities is $192.5 million. The lease terms include a five-year base term
including the construction phase and can be renewed for another five-year term.
Also related to the expansion in the Gulf Coast region, Midstream Gas & Liquids
will construct a 55-mile gas gathering pipeline connecting certain of these
facilities.

     Other expansion projects during 2000 included the Carbonate Trend gathering
project consisting of a 34-mile offshore pipeline located in the Mobile Bay area
in the eastern Gulf of Mexico. The pipeline transports sour gas from the Viosca
Knoll Block 251 to Shell's gathering system and Mobile Bay Block 113. The
Carbonate Trend gathering project cost approximately $21.4 million. In response
to additional volumes from new processing customers, Midstream Gas & Liquids
also completed the expansion of its natural gas plant in Opal, Wyoming. The
expansion provided an additional 350 million cubic feet per day of processing
capacity and an additional 20,000 barrels per day of natural gas liquids
extraction capacity. The Opal gas plant project cost approximately $11.7
million.



     In connection with the acquisition of the natural gas liquids portion of
TransCanada's midstream operations, Midstream assumed construction of the
McMurray-Redwater System. The system, which is to be completed in the fourth
quarter of 2001, will involve the extraction and fractionation of olefin-rich
NGLs from the Suncor Oil Sands off-gases. The operation will extend from Fort
Murray to the Redwater facility in central Alberta, Canada. Initial production
will recover approximately 13,500 barrels per day of NGLs and olefins to be
fractionated at the recently completed Redwater facility. The estimated cost of
the project is $54.7 million.

  Customers and Operations

     Facilities owned and/or operated by Midstream Gas & Liquids consist of
approximately 11,300 miles of gathering pipelines (including certain gathering
lines owned by Transco but operated by Midstream Gas & Liquids), 11 natural gas
treating plants, 17 natural gas processing plants (three of which are partially
owned), and approximately 14,300 miles of natural gas liquids pipeline, of which
approximately 4,568 miles are partially owned. The aggregate daily inlet
capacity is approximately 9.2 billion cubic feet for the gathering systems and
11.9 billion cubic feet for the gas processing, treating and dehydration
facilities. Midstream Gas & Liquids' pipeline operations provide customers with
one of the nation's largest natural gas liquids transportation systems, while
gathering and processing customers have direct access to interstate pipelines,
including affiliated pipelines, which provide access to multiple markets.

     During 2000, Midstream Gas & Liquids gathered gas for 237 customers,
processed gas for 98 customers and provided transportation to 95 customers. The
largest customer accounted for approximately 13 percent of total gathered
volumes, and the two largest processing customers accounted for 23 percent and
10 percent, respectively, of processed volumes. The three largest transportation
customers accounted for 22, 19 and 10 percent, respectively, of transportation
volumes. No other customer accounted for more than ten percent of gathered,
processed or transported volumes. Since the October 2000 acquisition, Williams
Energy (Canada) sold NGLs to three customers, all of which represent over ten
percent of Canadian NGL sales. Midstream Gas & Liquids' gathering and processing
agreements with large customers are generally long-term agreements with various
expiration dates. These long-term agreements account for the majority of the gas
gathered and processed by Midstream Gas & Liquids. The natural gas liquids
transportation contracts are tariff-based and generally short-term in nature
with some long-term contracts for system-connected processing plants. The
Canadian NGL sales contracts are typically long-term in nature and are based on
cost-of-service or flat fee arrangements.

  Operating Statistics

     The following table summarizes gathering, processing, natural gas liquid
sales, and transportation volumes for the periods indicated. The information
includes operations attributed to facilities owned by Transco but operated by
Midstream Gas & Liquids.



PETROLEUM SERVICES

     Williams Energy, through wholly owned subsidiaries in its Petroleum
Services unit, owns and operates a petroleum products pipeline system, an
ethylene plant and olefin pipeline, 78 petroleum products terminals (some of
which are partially owned), two ethanol production plants (one of which is
majority owned), two refineries and 277 convenience stores/travel centers, and
provides services and markets products related thereto.



     In October 2000, Williams formed Williams Energy Partners L.P., a wholly
owned partnership, to acquire, own and operate a diversified portfolio of energy
assets, concentrated around the storage, transportation and distribution of
refined petroleum products and ammonia. On October 30, 2000, Williams Energy
Partners filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration
statement on Form S-1 related to an initial public offering of common units. In
February 2001, 4,600,000 common units, representing approximately 40 percent of
the total outstanding units, were sold to the public. Williams currently owns
approximately 60 percent of the partnership including its general partner
interest. Williams Energy Partners' asset portfolio includes four marine
petroleum product terminal facilities, three located along the United States
Gulf Coast and one located near the New York Harbor. The aggregate storage
capacity of these terminals is in excess of 17.6 million barrels. The portfolio
also includes 24 inland terminals that form a distribution network for gasoline
and other refined petroleum products primarily throughout the southeastern
United States. These terminals are included in the Terminal Services and
Development section set forth below. Williams Energy Partners also owns an
ammonia pipeline and terminals system, which was purchased from Midstream Gas &
Liquids, that extends for approximately 1,100 miles from Texas and Oklahoma to
Minnesota.

  Transportation

     A subsidiary in the Petroleum Services unit, Williams Pipe Line Company,
owns and operates a petroleum products pipeline system that covers an 11-state
area extending from Oklahoma to North Dakota, Minnesota and Illinois. The system
is operated as a common carrier offering transportation and terminalling
services on a nondiscriminatory basis under published tariffs. The system
transports refined products and liquified petroleum gases.

     At December 31, 2000, the system traverses approximately 7,100 miles of
right-of-way and includes approximately 9,170 miles of pipeline in various sizes
up to 16 inches in diameter. The system includes 77 pumping stations, 24.5
million barrels of storage capacity and 40 delivery terminals. The terminals are
equipped to deliver refined products into tank trucks and tank rail cars. The
maximum number of barrels that the system can transport per day depends upon the
operating balance achieved at a given time between various segments of the
system. Because the balance is dependent upon the mix of products to be shipped
and the demand levels at the various delivery points, the exact capacity of the
system cannot be stated. In 2000, total system shipments averaged 637 thousand
barrels per day.

     The operating statistics set forth below relate to the system's operations
for the periods indicated:



     Williams Pipe Line and its subsidiary, Longhorn Enterprises of Texas, Inc.
(LETI), own a total 32.1 percent interest in Longhorn Partners Pipeline, LP, a
joint venture formed to construct and operate a refined products pipeline from
Houston to El Paso, Texas. Pipeline construction is essentially complete pending
regulatory and environmental approvals, and operations are expected to commence
in 2002. Williams Pipe Line has designed and constructed and will operate the
pipeline, and Williams Pipe Line and LETI have contributed a total of $95.8
million to the joint venture.



     On June 30, 2000, a subsidiary in the Petroleum Services unit purchased an
interest in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System from Mobil Alaska Pipeline Company
for $32.5 million. Petroleum Services' interest consists of 3.0845 percent of
the pipeline and the Valdez crude terminal. Petroleum Services' share of the
crude oil deliveries for 2000 was approximately 6.4 million barrels.

  Olefins

     Petroleum Services is the leading merchant marketer of ethylene in
Louisiana and owns and operates a 5/12 interest in a 1.2 billion pounds per year
ethylene plant near Geismar, Louisiana. Petroleum Services also owns and
operates a 215-mile light hydrocarbon transportation system and operates and has
partial ownership in an 85-mile olefin pipeline and storage network, which
connects, either directly or indirectly, most major natural gas liquids
producers and olefin consumers in Louisiana.

     Feedstock processed and ethylene produced by the olefin facility, which was
acquired in March 1999, are noted below:



  Terminal Services and Development

     Petroleum Services, through Williams Energy Ventures, Inc. (WEV), a wholly
owned subsidiary of Williams Energy Services, LLC, provides independent terminal
services to the refining and marketing industries via distribution of petroleum
products through wholly owned and joint interest terminals. WEV owns and/or
operates 33 strategically located independent terminals covering a 15-state area
in the South, Southeast, Southwest, Midwest and Northeast, which contain 23.1
million barrels of storage capacity.

     The terminals are supplied with refined products and ethanol by barge,
tanker, truck, rail and various common carrier pipelines. WEV provides
scheduling and inventory management, access to an expanded transportation and
information services network, additive injection services and custom
terminalling services such as octane and oxygenate blending. On a selective
basis, WEV provides temporary leased storage.

     In March 2000, WEV purchased Citgo's portion of a jointly owned terminal in
Southlake, Texas and in September 2000 purchased four terminal in the Northeast
from Wyatt Energy.

     Terminal barrels delivered for the periods indicated are noted below.



  Bio-Energy

     WEV, doing business as Williams Bio-Energy, is engaged in the production
and marketing of ethanol. Williams Bio-Energy owns and operates two ethanol
plants for which corn is the principal feedstock. The Pekin, Illinois plant has
an annual production capacity of 100 million gallons of fuel-grade and
industrial ethanol and also produces various coproducts and bio-products. The
Aurora, Nebraska plant (in which WEV owns a 74.9 percent interest) has an annual
production capacity of 30 million gallons. In late 2000, Williams Bio-Energy
acquired a minority interest in two affiliate plants in South Dakota and made
equity investments in two other plants in Minnesota and Iowa totaling
approximately 40 million gallons of annual ethanol production capacity from
primarily corn. In addition, Williams Bio-Energy obtained marketing rights to
100 percent of the ethanol output of the four plants. Williams Bio-Energy also
markets ethanol produced by third parties. Bio-products, mainly flavor
enhancers, produced at the Pekin plant are marketed primarily to food processing
companies.



     The sales volumes set forth below include ethanol produced by third parties
as well as by WEV for the periods indicated:



  Refining

     Petroleum Services, through subsidiaries in its unit, owns and operates two
refineries: the North Pole, Alaska refinery and the Memphis, Tennessee refinery.
The financial results of the North Pole refinery and the Memphis refinery may be
significantly impacted by changes in market prices for crude oil and refined
products. Petroleum Services cannot predict the future of crude oil and product
prices or their impact on its financial results.

     The North Pole Refinery includes the refinery located at North Pole, Alaska
and a terminal facility at Anchorage, Alaska. The refinery, the largest in the
state, is located approximately two miles from its supply point for crude oil,
the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS). The refinery's processing capability is
approximately 215,000 barrels per day. At maximum crude throughput, the refinery
can produce 67,000 barrels per day of refined products. These products are jet
fuel, gasoline, diesel fuel, heating oil, fuel oil, naphtha and asphalt. These
products are marketed in Alaska, Western Canada and the Pacific Rim principally
to wholesale, commercial, industrial and government customers and to Petroleum
Services' retail petroleum group.

     Average daily throughput and barrels processed and transferred by the North
Pole Refinery per day are noted below:



     The North Pole Refinery's crude oil is purchased from the state of Alaska
or is purchased or received on exchanges from crude oil producers. The refinery
has two long-term agreements with the state of Alaska for the purchase of
royalty oil, both of which are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2003. The
agreements provide for the purchase of up to 63,000 barrels per day
(approximately 29 percent of the refinery's supply) of the state's royalty share
of crude oil produced from Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. These volumes, along with crude
oil either purchased from crude oil producers or received under exchange
agreements or other short-term supply agreements with the state of Alaska, are
utilized as throughput for the refinery. Approximately 30 percent of the
throughput is refined and sold as finished product and the remainder of the
throughput is returned to the TAPS and either delivered to repay exchange
obligations or sold.

     The Memphis Refinery, which includes three petroleum products terminals, is
the only refinery in the state of Tennessee and has a throughput capacity of
approximately 165,000 barrels per day. Petroleum Services commissioned a 36,000
barrel per day continuous catalyst regeneration reformer in May 2000. The
reformer enables the refinery to produce in greater volumes premium gasoline to
be delivered in the mid-South region of the United States.

     The Memphis Refinery produces gasoline, low sulfur diesel fuel, jet fuel,
K-1 kerosene, refinery-grade propylene, No. 6 fuel oil, propane and elemental
sulfur. In 2000, these products were exchanged or marketed primarily in the
Mid-South region of the United States by Williams Energy's Energy Marketing &
Trading unit to wholesale customers, such as industrial and commercial
consumers, jobbers, independent dealers, other refiner/marketers and to
Petroleum Services' retail petroleum group. Petroleum Services began marketing
the refinery's products in February 2001.

     The Memphis Refinery has access to crude oil from the Gulf Coast via common
carrier pipeline and by river barges. In addition to domestic crude oil, the
Memphis Refinery receives and processes certain foreign crudes. The Memphis
Refinery's purchase contracts are generally short-term agreements.



     Average daily barrels processed and transferred by the Memphis Refinery are
noted below:



  Retail Petroleum

     Petroleum Services, primarily under the brand names "Williams
TravelCenters," "MAPCO Express" and "Williams Express," is engaged in the retail
marketing of gasoline, diesel fuel, other petroleum products, convenience
merchandise and restaurant and fast food items. At December 31, 2000, the retail
petroleum group operated 50 interstate TravelCenter locations, 199 MAPCO Express
convenience stores in the continental United States and 28 Williams Express
convenience stores in Alaska. The TravelCenter sites consist of 35 modern
facilities providing gasoline and diesel fuel, merchandise and restaurant
offerings for both traveling consumers and professional drivers, and 15
locations providing fuel and merchandise. The convenience store sites are
primarily concentrated in the vicinities of Nashville and Memphis, Tennessee and
Anchorage and Fairbanks, Alaska. All of the motor fuel sold by Williams
TravelCenters and convenience stores is supplied either by exchanges, directly
from either the Memphis or North Pole Refineries or through Williams Energy's
Energy Marketing & Trading unit.

     Convenience merchandise, restaurants and fast food accounted for
approximately 60 percent of the retail petroleum group's gross margins in 2000.
Gasoline and diesel sales volumes for the periods indicated are noted below:



     Petroleum Services intends to lease, construct and/or acquire up to 24 new
TravelCenters in 2001, the majority of which are expected to open in the first
half of 2001.

     On December 28, 2000, Petroleum Services announced it had signed an
agreement to sell its MAPCO Express convenience store operations to Delek-The
Israel Fuel Corporation Limited. The sale is expected to be concluded during the
first half of 2001. Petroleum Services will continue to own and operate its
TravelCenters and Williams Express convenience stores.

ENERGY MARKETING & TRADING

     Williams Energy, through subsidiaries including Williams Energy Marketing &
Trading Company and its subsidiaries (EM&T), is a national energy services
provider that buys, sells and transports a full suite of energy and
energy-related commodities, including power, natural gas, refined products,
natural gas liquids, crude oil, propane, liquefied natural gas, liquefied
petroleum gas and emission credits, primarily on a wholesale level, serving over
4,000 customers. In addition, EM&T provides and procures risk management and
other energy-related services through a variety of financial instruments and
structured transactions including exchange-traded futures, as well as
over-the-counter forwards, options, swap, tolling, load serving and full
requirements agreements and other derivatives related to various energy and
energy-related commodities. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated financial
statements for information on financial instruments and energy trading
activities.

     During 2000, EM&T marketed over 141,300 physical gigawatt hours of power.
As part of its power portfolio, EM&T has entered into a number of long-term
agreements at December 31, 2000 to market capacity of electric generation
facilities (either existing or to be constructed at various locations throughout
the United States) totaling approximately 7,082 megawatts (Alabama -- 846
megawatts; California -- 3,954 megawatts; Louisiana -- 750 megawatts; New
Jersey -- 832 megawatts; Pennsylvania -- 700 megawatts). Under these tolling
arrangements, EM&T supplies fuel for conversion to electricity and markets
capacity, energy and ancillary services related to the generating facilities
owned and operated by various counterparties. Approximately 4,700 megawatts of
generation capacity representing electric generation



capacity located in California and Louisiana are operational, with the balance
expected to come online between July 2001 and June 2002. EM&T also has entered
into several agreements to provide load serving and/or full requirements
services for a number of customers representing approximately 1,536 megawatts of
load in the United States (Indiana -- 1,266 megawatts; and Pennsylvania -- 270
megawatts). Additionally, EM&T has marketing rights for the energy and capacity
from three natural gas-fired electric generating plants owned by affiliated
companies and located near Bloomfield, New Mexico (60 megawatts); in Hazleton,
Pennsylvania (63 megawatts); and near Worthington, Indiana (170 megawatts).
Additional contractual rights to market electric generation capacity have been
announced from facilities expected to be operational over the next three years
in Tennessee (276 megawatts) and Nevada (125 megawatts). EM&T's primary power
customers include utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, governmental agencies
and other power marketers.

     EM&T markets natural gas throughout North America with total physical
volumes averaging 3.3 billion cubic feet per day in 2000. Beginning in 2000,
EM&T's natural gas marketing operations focused on activities that facilitate
and/or complement the group's power portfolio. EM&T's natural gas customers
include local distribution companies, utilities, producers, industrials and
other gas marketers.

     In 2000, EM&T provided supply, distribution and related risk management
services to petroleum producers, refiners and end-users in the United States and
various international regions. During 2000, EM&T's total physical crude oil and
petroleum products marketed exceeded 901,000 barrels per day. During 2000, EM&T
also marketed natural gas liquids with total physical volumes averaging 281
thousand barrels per day.

  Operating Statistics

     The following table summarizes marketing and trading volumes for the
periods indicated (natural gas volumes for 1999 and 1998 include sales by the
retail gas and electric business, which has now been divested):



REGULATORY MATTERS

     Midstream Gas & Liquids.  In May 1994, after reviewing its legal authority
in a Public Comment Proceeding, the FERC determined that while it retains some
regulatory jurisdiction over gathering and processing performed by interstate
pipelines, pipeline-affiliated gathering and processing companies are outside
its authority under the Natural Gas Act. An appellate court has affirmed the
FERC's determination, and the United States Supreme Court has denied requests
for certiorari. As a result of these FERC decisions, some of the individual
states in which Midstream Gas & Liquids conducts its operations have considered
whether to impose regulatory requirements on gathering companies. Kansas,
Oklahoma and Texas currently regulate gathering activities using complaint
mechanisms under which the state commission may resolve disputes involving an
individual gathering arrangement. Other states may also consider whether to
impose regulatory requirements on gathering companies.

     In February 1996, Midstream Gas & Liquids and Transco filed applications
with the FERC to spindown all of Transco's gathering facilities to Midstream Gas
& Liquids. The FERC subsequently denied the request in September 1996. Midstream
Gas & Liquids and Transco sought rehearing in October 1996. In August 1997,
Midstream Gas & Liquids and Transco filed a second request for expedited
treatment of the rehearing request. The FERC has yet to rule on this request for
rehearing. In February 1998, Midstream Gas & Liquids and Transco filed separate
applications to spindown an onshore gathering system located in Texas, the
Tilden/ McMullen gathering system, which was also one of the subjects of the
pending rehearing request. In May 1999, the FERC approved the spindown
application only for the facilities upstream of the Tilden treating



plant. The transfer of ownership of these facilities occurred in April 2000. As
a result of a court appeal reversing and remanding the Commission's decision
that the offshore system of Sea Robin pipeline were transmission facilities
regulated by FERC under the Natural Gas Act, in June 1999, the FERC issued an
order in the Sea Robin remand proceeding finding that the upstream portions of
the Sea Robin system are nonjurisdictional gathering but the downstream portion
is regulated transmission. In July 2000, the FERC affirmed that determination
and denied rehearing requests. Appeals are pending in the D.C. Circuit Court of
Appeals. In April 2000, the FERC issued "Regulations under the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act Governing the Movement of Natural Gas on Facilities on the Outer
Continental Shelf," which require most non-interstate natural gas pipelines
located on the Outer Continental Shelf to post prices, terms and conditions of
service. That rule is also pending appeal. In November 2000, Midstream Gas &
Liquids and Transco filed applications with the FERC to spindown two of
Transco's offshore gathering facilities to Midstream Gas & Liquids (the North
Padre system and the Central Texas system). Transco and Midstream Gas & Liquids
explained that it was the first in a series of spindown filings designed to be
consistent with the current policy under the Sea Robin reformulated test. This
series of spindown filings will generally request the spindown of smaller
systems than originally proposed in the 1996 filings, but Transco and Midstream
Gas & Liquids have stated that they reserve their rights to continue pursuit of
the original spindown proposals.

     Midstream Gas & Liquids' natural gas liquids group is subject to various
federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations.
Midstream Gas & Liquids' pipeline operations are subject to the provisions of
the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act. In addition, the tariff rates,
shipping regulations, and other practices of the Mid-America, Rio Grande,
Seminole, Wilprise and Tri-States pipelines are regulated by the FERC pursuant
to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act applicable to interstate common
carrier petroleum and petroleum products pipelines. The tariff rates and
practices of the ammonia system are regulated by the Surface Transportation
Board under the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Commission Termination Act
of 1995 applicable to pipeline carriers. Both of these statutes require the
filing of reasonable and nondiscriminatory tariff rates and subject Midstream
Gas & Liquids to certain other regulations concerning its terms and conditions
of service. The Mid-America, Rio Grande, Seminole, Wilprise and Tri-States
pipelines also file tariff rates covering intrastate movements with various
state commissions. The United States Department of Transportation has prescribed
safety regulations for common carrier pipelines. The pipeline systems are
subject to various state laws and regulations concerning safety standards,
exercise of eminent domain, and similar matters.

     Midstream Gas & Liquids' Canadian natural gas group's assets, except for a
piece of pipeline, are regulated provincially. The Alberta-based assets are
regulated by the Alberta Energy & Utilities Board (AEUB) and Alberta
Environment, while the British Columbia-based assets are regulated by B.C. Oil
and Gas Commission and the British Columbia Ministry of Environment, Lands and
Parks. The regulatory system for Alberta oil and gas industry incorporates a
large measure of self-regulation, meaning that licensed operators are held
responsible for ensuring that their operations are conducted in accordance with
all provincial regulatory requirements. For situations in which non-compliance
with the applicable regulations is at issue, the AEUB and Alberta Environment
have implemented an enforcement process with escalating consequences. The
British Columbia Oil and Gas Commission operates in a slightly different manner
than the AEUB, with more emphasis placed on pre-construction criteria and the
submission of post-construction documentation, as well as periodic inspections.
Only one asset is subject to federal regulation, under the jurisdiction of the
National Energy Board (NEB). The Younger to Boundary Lake Pipeline, which is Leg
Number 2 of the NGL Gathering System, is regulated by the National Energy Board
as a Group 2 inter-provincial pipeline. While Group 2 regulated companies are
required to post a toll and tariff for the facilities they operate, they are
regulated on a "complaint only" basis and need only to employ standard uniform
accounting procedures, rather than the more onerous Group 1 NEB-mandated
accounting and reporting requirements.

     Petroleum Services.  Williams Pipe Line, as an interstate common carrier
pipeline, is subject to the provisions and regulations of the Interstate
Commerce Act. Under this Act, Williams Pipe Line is required, among other
things, to establish just, reasonable and nondiscriminatory rates, to file its
tariffs with the FERC, to keep its records and accounts pursuant to the Uniform
System of Accounts for Oil Pipeline Companies, to



make annual reports to the FERC and to submit to examination of its records by
the audit staff of the FERC. Authority to regulate rates, shipping rules and
other practices and to prescribe depreciation rates for common carrier pipelines
is exercised by the FERC. The Department of Transportation, as authorized by the
1995 Pipeline Safety Reauthorization Act, is the oversight authority for
interstate liquids pipelines. Williams Pipe Line is also subject to the
provisions of various state laws applicable to intrastate pipelines.

     Environmental regulations and changing crude oil supply patterns continue
to affect the refining industry. The industry's response to environmental
regulations and changing supply patterns will directly affect volumes and
products shipped on the Williams Pipe Line system. Environmental Protection
Agency regulations, driven by the Clean Air Act, require refiners to change the
composition of fuel manufactured. A pipeline's ability to respond to the effects
of regulation and changing supply patterns will determine its ability to
maintain and capture new market shares. Williams Pipe Line has successfully
responded to changes in diesel fuel composition and product supply and has
adapted to new gasoline additive requirements. Reformulated gasoline regulations
have not yet significantly affected Williams Pipe Line. Williams Pipe Line will
continue to attempt to position itself to respond to changing regulations and
supply patterns but cannot predict how future changes in the marketplace will
affect its market areas.

     Energy Marketing & Trading.  EM&T's business is subject to a variety of
laws and regulations at the local, state and federal levels. At the federal
level, important regulatory agencies include the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (regarding energy commodity transportation and wholesale trading) and
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (regarding various over-the-counter
derivative transactions and exemptions and exclusions from the Commodity
Exchange Act). Electricity markets, particularly in California, continue to be
subject to numerous and wide-ranging regulatory proceedings and investigations,
regarding among other things, market structure, behavior of market participants
and market prices. The FERC has announced that it will hold a closed meeting on
March 14, 2001, to discuss possible enforcement proceedings involving EM&T and
AES Southland Inc., a unit of AES Corp. (AES), related to their turnkey
agreement under which EM&T supplies natural gas to, and markets power from,
merchant power plants owned and operated by AES in Southern California. See Note
20 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     In December 2000, the FERC issued an order which provided that for the
period between October 2, 2000 and December 31, 2002, refunds may be ordered if
the FERC finds that the wholesale markets in California are unable to produce
competitive, just and reasonable prices, or that market power or other
individual seller conduct is exercised to produce an unjust and unreasonable
rate. For periods commencing January 1, 2001, refund liability will expire
within 60 days of a sale unless the FERC sends the seller a written notice that
the sale is still under review. Williams received notice on March 9, 2001, that
it would be liable for refunds for January 2001 of approximately $8 million. The
order requiring refunds will be subject to further review.

     Management believes that EM&T's activities are conducted in substantial
compliance with the marketing affiliate rules of FERC Order 497. Order 497
imposes certain nondiscrimination, disclosure and separation requirements upon
interstate natural gas pipelines with respect to their natural gas trading
affiliates. EM&T has taken steps to ensure it does not share employees or
officers with affiliated interstate natural gas pipelines and does not receive
information from affiliated interstate natural gas pipelines that is not also
available to unaffiliated natural gas trading companies.

COMPETITION

     Exploration & Production.  Williams Energy's E&P unit competes with a wide
variety of independent producers as well as integrated oil and gas companies for
markets for its production. E&P has three general phases of operations:
acquiring oil and gas properties, developing non-producing properties and
operating producing properties. In the process of acquiring minerals, the
primary methods of competition are on acquisition price and terms such as
duration of the mineral lease, the amount of the royalty payment and special
conditions related to rights to use the surface of the land under which the
mineral interest lies. In the process of developing non-producing properties,
E&P does not face significant competition. In the operating



phase, the primary method of competition involves operating efficiencies related
to the cost to produce the hydrocarbons from the reservoir.

     Midstream Gas & Liquids.  Williams Energy competes for gathering and
processing business with interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers and
independent gatherers and processors. Numerous factors impact any given
customer's choice of a gathering or processing services provider, including
rate, location, term, timeliness of well connections, pressure obligations and
the willingness of the provider to process for either a fee or for liquids taken
in-kind. Competition for the natural gas liquids pipelines include other
pipelines, tank cars, trucks, barges, local sources of supply (refineries,
gasoline plants and ammonia plants) and other sources of energy such as natural
gas, coal, oil and electricity. Factors that influence customer transportation
decisions include rate, location and timeliness of delivery.

     Petroleum Services.  Williams Pipe Line operates without the protection of
a federal certificate of public convenience and necessity that might preclude
other entrants from providing like service in its area of operations. Further,
Williams Pipe Line must plan, operate and compete without the operating
stability inherent in a broad base of contractually obligated or
owner-controlled usage. Because Williams Pipe Line is a common carrier, its
shippers need only meet the requirements set forth in its published tariffs in
order to avail themselves of the transportation services offered by Williams
Pipe Line.

     Competition exists from other pipelines, refineries, barge traffic,
railroads and tank trucks. Competition is affected by trades of products or
crude oil between refineries that have access to the system and by trades among
brokers, traders and others who control products. These trades can result in the
diversion from the Williams Pipe Line system of volume that might otherwise be
transported on the system. Shorter, lower revenue hauls may also result from
these trades. Williams Pipe Line also is exposed to interfuel competition
whereby an energy form shipped by a liquids pipeline, such as heating fuel, is
replaced by a form not transported by a liquids pipeline, such as electricity or
natural gas. While Williams Pipe Line faces competition from a variety of
sources throughout its marketing areas, the principal competition is other
pipelines. A number of pipeline systems, competing on a broad range of price and
service levels, provide transportation service to various areas served by the
system. The possible construction of additional competing products or crude oil
pipelines, conversions of crude oil or natural gas pipelines to products
transportation, changes in refining capacity, refinery closings, changes in the
availability of crude oil to refineries located in its marketing area or
conservation and conversion efforts by fuel consumers may adversely affect the
volumes available for transportation by Williams Pipe Line.

     Williams Bio-Energy's fuel ethanol operations compete in local, regional
and national fuel additive markets with other ethanol products and other fuel
additive producers, such as refineries and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE)
producers. MTBE has been banned in California effective January 1, 2003, and in
other states due to ground water contamination problems. Williams Bio-Energy's
other products compete in global markets against a variety of competitors and
substitute products.

     The principal competitive forces affecting Williams Energy's refining
businesses are feedstock costs, refinery efficiency, refinery product mix and
product distribution. Some of Memphis Refinery's competitors can process sour
crude, and accordingly, are more flexible in the crudes that they can process.
Williams Energy has limited crude oil reserves and does not engage in crude oil
exploration, and it must therefore obtain its crude oil requirements from
unaffiliated sources. Williams Energy believes that it will be able to obtain
adequate crude oil and other feedstocks at generally competitive prices for the
foreseeable future.

     The principal competitive factors affecting Williams Energy's retail
petroleum business are location, product price and quality, appearance and
cleanliness of stores and brand-name identification. Competition in the
convenience store industry is intense. Within the travel center industry,
Williams TravelCenters strives to be a market leader in customer service to the
local consumer, traveling consumer and professional driver. Averaging 12,000
square feet, the facilities seamlessly blend these customer groups, resulting in
greater revenue and income diversification than traditional convenience stores.

     Energy Marketing & Trading.  Williams Energy's EM&T operations directly
compete with large independent energy marketers, marketing affiliates of
regulated pipelines and utilities and natural gas



producers. The financial trading business competes with other energy-based
companies offering similar services as well as certain brokerage houses. This
level of competition contributes to a business environment of constant pricing
and margin pressure.

OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY

     The majority of Williams Energy's ownership interests in exploration and
production properties are held as working interests in oil and gas leaseholds.

     Williams Energy's gathering and processing facilities and natural gas
liquids pipelines are owned in fee. Midstream Gas & Liquids constructs and
maintains gathering and natural gas liquids pipeline systems pursuant to
rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses, and consents on and across
properties owned by others. The compressor stations and gas processing and
treating facilities are located in whole or in part on lands owned by
subsidiaries of Williams Energy or on sites held under leases or permits issued
or approved by public authorities.

     Williams Energy owns its petroleum pipeline system in fee. However, a
substantial portion of the system is operated, constructed and maintained
pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses or consents on and
across properties owned by others. The terminals, pump stations and all other
facilities of the system are located on lands owned in fee or on lands held
under long-term leases, permits or contracts. The North Pole Refinery is located
on land leased from the state of Alaska under a long-term lease scheduled to
expire in 2025 and renewable at that time by Williams Energy. The Anchorage,
Alaska terminal is located on land leased from the Alaska Railroad Corporation
under two long-term leases. The Memphis Refinery is located on land owned by
Williams Energy. Williams Energy management believes its assets are in such a
condition and maintained in such a manner that they are adequate and sufficient
for the conduct of business.

     The primary assets of Williams Energy's energy marketing and trading unit
are its term contracts, employees, related systems and technological support.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Williams Energy is subject to various federal, state and local laws and
regulations relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that
Williams Energy's operations are in substantial compliance with existing
environmental legal requirements. Management expects that compliance with
existing environmental legal requirements will not have a material adverse
effect on the capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position of
Williams Energy. See Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Groundwater monitoring and remediation are ongoing at both refineries and
air and water pollution control equipment is operating at both refineries to
comply with applicable regulations. The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990
continue to impact Williams Energy's refining businesses through a number of
programs and provisions. The provisions include Maximum Achievable Control
Technology rules which are being developed for the refining industry, controls
on individual chemical substances, new operating permit rules and new fuel
specifications to reduce vehicle emissions. The provisions impact other
companies in the industry in similar ways and are not expected to adversely
impact Williams Energy's competitive position.

     Electricity generation facilities that are either owned by Williams Energy
subsidiaries or are subject to tolling or other agreements are subject to
various environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations
regarding emissions. Facility availability may be affected by these laws and
regulations. In 2000, the availability of such generation in California was
adversely affected by such environmental issues.

     Williams Energy and its subsidiaries also accrue environmental remediation
costs for its natural gas gathering and processing facilities, petroleum
products pipelines, retail petroleum and refining operations and for certain
facilities related to former propane marketing operations primarily related to
soil and groundwater contamination. In addition, Williams Energy owns a
discontinued petroleum refining facility that is being evaluated for potential
remediation efforts. At December 31, 2000, Williams Energy and its subsidiaries
had accrued liabilities totaling approximately $49 million. Williams Energy
accrues receivables related to environmental remediation costs based upon an
estimate of amounts that will be reimbursed from state funds


for certain expenses associated with underground storage tank problems and
repairs. At December 31, 2000, Williams Energy and its subsidiaries had accrued
receivables totaling $15 million.

     Williams Field Services (WFS) received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the
EPA in February 2000. WFS received a contemporaneous letter from the DOJ
indicating that the DOJ will also be involved in the matter. The NOV alleged
violations of the Clean Air Act at a gas processing plant. WFS, the EPA and the
DOJ agreed to settle this matter for a penalty of $850,000. In the course of
investigating this matter, WFS discovered a similar potential violation at the
plant and disclosed it to the EPA and the DOJ. The parties will discuss whether
additional enforcement action is warranted.

                            WILLIAMS COMMUNICATIONS

     On October 6, 1999, Williams Communications Group, Inc. closed its initial
public offering by selling shares of its Class A common stock to the public. In
separate private placements, SBC Communications Inc., Intel Corporation, and
Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. each purchased a portion of the Class A common
stock. On February 26, 2001, Williams and Williams Communications entered into
an agreement under which Williams contributed an outstanding promissory note
from Williams Communications of approximately $975 million and certain other
assets to Williams Communications in exchange for 24,265,892 shares of Williams
Communications' Class A common stock. As of February 28, 2001, there were
92,859,410 shares of the Class A common stock outstanding and 395,434,965 shares
of Class B common stock outstanding. As of February 28, 2001, Williams owned
24,265,892 shares of Class A common stock and 100 percent of the Class B common
stock, representing an approximate 86 percent ownership interest.

     Williams has announced that its board of directors has authorized its
management to take steps that may lead to a tax-free distribution of Williams
Communications' shares held by Williams to its shareholders. Assuming that
market conditions and other factors continue to support such a tax-free
spin-off, Williams has announced that its board of directors would expect to
vote during the first part of 2001 to set a record date, the ratio of a share of
Williams Communications stock that will be issued for each share of Williams
stock, and to direct the distribution of Williams Communications shares.

     On January 29, 2001, Williams Communications announced a contract with
Platinum Equity to sell the operations of its Solutions business segment in the
United States and Mexico. In addition, it announced its intent to sell the
remaining Canadian operations of Solutions.

     Following its decision to sell its Solutions segment, Williams
Communications operates through three operating segments: Network, Broadband
Media and Strategic Investments. Network owns or leases and operates a
nationwide inter-city fiber-optic network, which it is extending locally and
globally to provide Internet, data, voice and video services exclusively to
communications service providers. Network also includes a publicly traded
Australian telecommunications company and various other investments that drive
bandwidth usage on Williams Communications' network. Broadband Media includes
Vyvx Services which provides live and non-live video transmission services
worldwide for news, sports, advertising and entertainment events and investments
in domestic broadband media communication companies. Strategic Investments
invests in both domestic and foreign companies that it believes will, directly
or indirectly, increase revenue opportunities for its other segments. As of
December 31, 2000, Strategic Investments' foreign investments are all located in
South America. Williams Communications has formed strategic alliances with
communications companies to secure long-term, high-capacity commitments for
traffic on its network and to enhance its service offerings. At December 31,
2000, Williams Communications employed approximately 10,650 employees.

     Segment revenues and segment profit for Williams Communications' business
units are reported in Note 23 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
herein.

NETWORK

     Williams Communications owns or leases and operates a nationwide intercity
fiber-optic network, which it is extending locally and globally. It intends to
make Network the most efficient U.S.-based provider of


advanced Internet, data, voice and video services to companies that use
high-capacity communications services as an integral part of their service
offerings. These companies include long distance carriers, local service
providers, Internet service providers, application service providers, digital
subscriber line service providers, utilities and international carriers.
Williams Communications also offer rights of use in dark fiber, which is fiber
that it installs but for which it does not provide communications transmission
services. Network is building networks, or seeking strategic relationships to
provide services, in U.S. cities and in Asia, Australia, South America and
Europe. Network has also made investments in companies that assist it in
improving, or create demand for capacity on, its network.

     Properties.  In late 2000, Network completed its U.S. inter-city core
network build, which connects 125 cities. As of December 31, 2000, Network had
146 data centers across its network. The Williams Communications network was
primarily constructed by digging trenches along rights of way, or rights to use
the property of others, which Network obtained throughout the United States from
various landowners. Where feasible, Network constructed along Williams' pipeline
rights of way and the rights of way of other pipeline companies. Approximately
21 percent of its rights of way are along Williams' pipeline rights of way and
the remainder is along the rights of way of third parties. Rights of way from
unaffiliated parties are generally for terms of at least 20 years, and most
cover distances of less than one mile. Where necessary or economically
preferable, Network has other right of way agreements in place with highway
commissions, utilities, political subdivisions and others. Almost all of its
rights of way extend through at least 2018.

     Expansion projects.  In 2000, Williams Communications announced plans to
spend $421 million to extend the local reach of its network. It intends to have
in operation local services over its network in 50 of the largest U.S. cities by
December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2000, it had in operation local services
over its network in 14 U.S. cities and intends to have in operation local
services over its network to a total of 20 of the largest U.S. cities by
December 31, 2001.  In addition, Network has announced plans to extend its
network into Asia, Australia, South America and Europe by entering into
strategic agreements with other communications service provider, investing in
foreign communications service providers, and by acquiring interests in undersea
cables.

     Customers.  Network's customers currently include regional Bell operating
companies, Internet service providers, application service providers, digital
subscriber line service providers, long distance carriers, utilities,
international carriers and other communications services providers who desire
high-speed connectivity on a carrier services basis. Sales to SBC accounted for
24 percent of Network's 2000 revenues; sales to Intermedia, including its
subsidiary, Digex Incorporated, accounted for 19 percent of Network's 2000
revenues; and sales to Winstar accounted for 14 percent of its 2000 revenues.
Williams Communications has entered into strategic alliances with SBC, Intel,
Telefonos de Mexico, KDDI, Winstar and others. It also has investments in
Lightyear, XO Communications, and UtiliCom and communications companies with
operations in Australia, Brazil, Chile and Argentina. These alliances and
investments help to increase the volume of business and provide additional
customers for Network.

     Competition.  The communications industry is highly competitive. In the
market for carrier services, Network competes primarily with the three
traditional nationwide carriers, AT&T, WorldCom and Sprint, and other
coast-to-coast and regional fiber-optic network providers, such as Qwest, Level
3, Global Crossing and Broadwing. Other companies have announced plans to
construct significant fiber-optic networks. Network also competes with numerous
other service providers that focus either on a specific product or set of
products or within a geographic region. Network competes primarily on the basis
of pricing, transmission quality, network reliability and customer service and
support. Network has only recently begun to offer some of its services and
products and, as a result, it may have fewer and less well established customer
relationships than some of its competitors. Its services within local markets in
the United States face additional competitors, including the regional telephone
companies and other local telephone companies. Its services outside the United
States also face additional competitors, including national telephone companies
in foreign countries and carriers that own capacity on other submarine and
regional fiber-optic systems.



BROADBAND MEDIA

     In the first quarter of 2000, Williams Communications formed its Broadband
Media segment. Substantially all of the operations of this segment are conducted
by Vyvx Services. Since 1989, Vyvx Services has provided worldwide transmission
of live and non-live media content, transmitting broadcast news, sports,
advertising and special events over its integrated fiber-optic, satellite and
teleport network. Vyvx Services serves the unique video needs of major broadcast
networks and their affiliate stations, professional sports leagues, media
production companies and global advertising agencies. Vyvx Services transmits
approximately 80 percent of live major league sporting events, approximately 65
percent of live events and distributes approximately 35 percent of spot
advertising. Through Vyvx Services, Williams Communications has gained
experience in broadband multimedia networks and established high-speed
connections to major news and sports venues throughout the United States.
Williams Communications provides services throughout the United States, South
America and Asia using its network, four satellite earth stations that it owns
and leased transmission capacity on satellites. Williams Communications owns
approximately 600 servers that are located in television and radio stations
throughout the United States, which allow for online, real-time selection and
distribution of media content. Broadband Media also has investments in companies
that provide media content products and services.

     Expansion Projects.  Williams Communications is initiating implementation
of an application infrastructure called MediaXtranet(SM) that will provide
services to facilitate the transmission and storage of media content for
business-to-business applications, including hosting and navigation services.
Williams Communications expects that MediaXtranet would enable the collection,
gathering, hosting, management, transacting and edge distribution of media
content, regardless of its format or source. Williams Communications expects
that the full implementation of MediaXtranet, if undertaken, would likely
require substantial capital expenditures, which are currently not accounted for
in its business plan.

     Customers.  Broadband Media sells only to media content service providers.
It does not compete with its media customers for retail end-users. It has
approximately 2,000 customers, including major broadcast and cable television
networks, news services, professional and collegiate sports organizations, such
as the National Football League and the National Basketball Association, and
advertising agencies, television companies and movie production companies.
Approximately 43 percent of Broadband Media's total revenue in 2000 was derived
from its top 10 customers. Broadband Media's largest customer, Fox Entertainment
Group, Inc., accounted for approximately 13 percent of Broadband Media's 2000
total revenues. Contracts with the largest customers are for terms that extend
up to 10 years. Most contracts with smaller customers are for one-year terms.

     Competition.  Vyvx Services is currently a market leader in transmission
services for major league and other sporting and live events and has a
significant market share of the advertising distribution services market.
Competitors in traditional video transmission and advertising distribution
services include Teleglobe, Triumph Communications, Inc. and Digital Generation
Systems, Inc.

STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS

     Through Strategic Investments, Williams Communications invests in
communications businesses that it believes will increase revenue opportunities
for the Williams Communications network and other business segments. The
strategic investments currently include ownership interests in the following
communications companies located in Brazil, Chile and Argentina:

     ATL.  ATL-Algar Telecom Leste, S.A. (ATL) was formed in March 1998 to
acquire the concession for B-band cellular licenses in the Brazilian states of
Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo. At December 31, 2000, Communications owned 19
percent of the outstanding common stock and 66 percent of the outstanding
preferred stock of ATL through Communications' ownership of Johi Representacoes
Limitada and Williams International ATL Ltd. Other investors in ATL include SBC,
Algar Telecom, S.A. and Telefonos de Mexico.

     In the first quarter of 2001, Williams Communications granted an option to
Telecom Americas, a joint venture among SBC, American Movil S.A. de C.V., and
Bell Canada International Inc., to purchase Williams



Communications' remaining interest in ATL for an agreed to price. The option was
granted in exchange for Telecom Americas paying Williams Communications' portion
of the required funding to ATL. The option will expire at the end of the first
quarter of 2001.

     ATL provides digital cellular services in the Brazilian states of Rio de
Janeiro and Espirito Santo, covering a population of approximately 16.1 million
inhabitants. ATL started commercial operations on January 15, 1999, and had
approximately 1.6 million subscribers as of December 31, 2000. ATL's only
cellular competitor in these areas is Tele Sudeste Celular Participacoes S.A., a
former subsidiary of Telebras currently controlled by a consortium led by
Telefonica de Espana.

     Manquehue Net.  ManquehueNet, S.A. (formerly Telefonica Manquehue, S.A.) is
a high-capacity communications services provider within the Santiago, Chile,
metropolitan area. It provides Internet, data and voice services for its
approximately 75,000 business and residential customers as of December 31, 2000.
Manquehue Net was formed as a result of the merger of Metrocom S.A. with
Telefonica Manquehue in January 2000. Telefonica Manquehue is installing an
extensive telecommunications duct infrastructure throughout Santiago, which had
exceeded more than 250,000 homes and businesses by the end of 2000. Williams
Communications owned a 19.9 percent equity interest in Metrocom S.A. until the
merger. As a result of the merger and subsequent investments by Williams
Communications and other shareholders, Williams Communications now owns 16.5
percent of Manquehue Net.

     Silica Networks.  In May 2000, Williams Communications acquired a 19.9
percent direct interest in Silica Networks S.A. (formerly Southern Cone
Communications Company, S.A.). ManquehueNet also acquired a 30.1 percent
interest in Silica Networks. The 4,300-kilometer (2,660-mile) Southern Cone
network initially will link the major Argentine cities of Buenos Aires, Las
Toninas, Rosario, Cordoba, Mendoza and Neuquen with the Chilean cities of
Santiago and Valparaiso. When complete, the system will link Argentina and Chile
with cables to Peru, Colombia, Panama, Venezuela, Brazil and the Caribbean, and
ultimately to the Williams Communications U.S. network.

STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND RELATIONSHIPS

     Williams Communications enters into strategic alliances with communications
companies to secure long-term, high-capacity commitments for traffic on the
Williams Communications network and to enhance its service offerings. It
currently has strategic relationships with SBC, Intel, Telefonos de Mexico, KDDI
and Winstar. Williams Communications intends to continue to pursue additional
strategic alliances. The relationship with SBC is described below.

     SBC Communications Inc.  SBC is a major communications provider in the
United States. SBC currently provides local services in the south central and
Midwest regions of the United States and in California, Nevada and Connecticut.
Concurrently with the Williams Communications initial public offering, on
October 6, 1999, SBC acquired 20,226,812 shares of Williams Communications
Group, Inc.'s Class A common stock, representing approximately 4.1 percent of
the shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2001. In connection
with its purchase of this common stock at the time of the initial public
offering, SBC agreed to certain restrictions and will receive certain
privileges, including the following:

     On February 8, 1999, Williams Communications entered into agreements with
SBC under which:

     - SBC must first seek to obtain domestic voice and data long distance
       services from Williams Communications for 20 years.

     - Williams Communications must first seek to obtain select international
       wholesale services and various other services, including toll-free,
       operator, calling card and directory assistance services, from SBC for 20
       years.

     - Williams Communications and SBC will sell each other's products to their
       respective customers and provide installation and maintenance of
       communications equipment and other services.



     In June 2000, Communications acquired SBC's initial party interests in two
undersea communications cables between the United States and China and Japan,
respectively. In September 2000, Communications acquired the long distance
network assets of Ameritech Communications, Inc., a subsidiary of SBC. The
assets are located in the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and
Wisconsin, and include a fiber-optic network, data centers, indefeasible rights
of use in dark fiber and switches. In connection with this purchase of the
Ameritech assets, the services agreement with SBC was amended to require
Ameritech to buy services from Communications.

     Williams Communications has entered into a services agreement with SBC by
which Communications will provide local transport services to SBC in six
markets: New York, Boston, Seattle, Phoenix, Atlanta and Denver. This agreement
provides for expansion of the services in these markets and further expansion
into additional markets.

SOLUTIONS

     On January 29, 2001, Communications announced a contract with Platinum
Equity to sell the operations of its Solutions business segment in the United
States and Mexico. In addition, it announced its intent to sell the remaining
Canadian operations of Solutions. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

     Solutions installs, and maintains communications equipment and network
services that provide solutions for the comprehensive voice and data needs of
organizations of all sizes.

     Vendor relationships.  Solutions has agreements with the suppliers of the
products and providers of the services it sells to its customers. These
agreements provide for Solutions to distribute, resale, or integrate products or
act as agent for the provider of services. Normally, Solutions receives volume
discounts off the list price of the product or service it purchases from its
vendors. Solutions' primary vendor relationships are with Nortel, Cisco, Lucent
and NEC, of which Nortel is the largest.

     Customers.  Solutions provides products and services to approximately
100,000 customer sites across a broad range of industries including businesses
as well as educational, governmental and non-profit institutions. These
customers consist of small businesses (ten or more employees), small sites of
larger companies and large enterprise campus sites. Solutions is not dependent
on any one customer or group of customers to achieve its desired results.
Solutions' top 25 customers combined accounted for less than 25 percent of
revenue during 2000, with no one customer accounting for more than 1 percent.

     Competition.  Solutions' competition comes from communications equipment
distributors, network integrators, and manufacturers of equipment (including in
some instances those manufacturers whose products Solutions also sells).
Solutions' competitors include Norstan, Inc., Lucent, Siemens, Cisco Systems and
the equipment divisions of GTE, Sprint and the regional Bell operating
companies. Solutions operates in a highly competitive industry and faces
competition from companies that may have significantly greater financial,
technical and marketing resources.

REGULATORY MATTERS

     Williams Communications is subject to federal, state, local and foreign
regulations that affect its product offerings, competition, demand, costs and
other aspects of its operations. U.S. federal laws and regulations generally
apply to interstate telecommunications, including international
telecommunications that originate or terminate in the United States, while state
laws and regulations apply to telecommunications terminating within the state of
origination. A foreign country's laws and regulations apply to
telecommunications that originate or terminate in that country. The regulation
of the telecommunications industry is changing rapidly and varies from state to
state and from country to country. Williams Communications' operations are also
subject to a variety of environmental, safety, health and other governmental
regulations. Williams Communications cannot guarantee that future regulatory,
judicial or legislative activities will not have a material adverse effect on
it, or that domestic or international regulators or third parties will not raise
material issues with regard to its compliance or noncompliance with applicable
regulations.



     Williams Communications' operations are subject to a variety of federal,
state, local and foreign environmental, safety, and health laws and governmental
regulations. These laws and regulations govern matters such as the generation,
storage, handling, use and transportation of hazardous materials, the emission
and discharge of hazardous materials into the atmosphere, the emission of
electromagnetic radiation, the protection of wetlands, historic sites and
endangered species and the health and safety of employees. In California,
Williams continues to face uncertainty on the extent of state regulatory
authorizations and environmental review required to construct communications
facilities in that state.

     Although Williams Communications monitors compliance with environmental,
safety, and health laws and regulations, it cannot give assurances that it has
been or will be in complete compliance with these laws and regulations. It may
be subject to fines or other sanctions imposed by governmental authorities if it
fails to obtain certain permits or violate the laws and regulations. No capital
or other expenditures for compliance with laws, regulations, or permits relating
to the environment, safety and health were material in 2000.

     In addition, Williams Communications may be subject to environmental laws
requiring the investigation and cleanup of contamination at sites it owns or
operates or at third-party waste disposal sites. These laws often impose
liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible
for, the contamination. Although it owns or operates numerous sites in
connection with its operations, it is not aware of any liability relating to
contamination at these sites or third party waste disposal sites that could have
a material adverse effect on the company.

                         WILLIAMS INTERNATIONAL COMPANY

     Williams International Company, through subsidiaries, has made direct
investments in energy projects primarily in South America and Lithuania and
continues to explore and develop additional projects for international
investments. Williams International also has investments in energy and
infrastructure development funds in Asia and South America.

     El Furrial.  Williams International owns a 67 percent interest in a venture
near the El Furrial field in eastern Venezuela that constructed, owns and
operates medium and high pressure gas compression facilities for Petroleos de
Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), the state owned petroleum corporation of Venezuela.

     The medium pressure facility has compression capacity of 130 million cubic
feet per day of raw natural gas from 100 to 1,200 p.s.i.g. for delivery into a
natural gas processing plant owned by PDVSA. The high pressure facility has
compression capacity of 650 million cubic feet per day of processed natural gas
from 1,100 to 7,500 p.s.i.g. for injection into PDVSA's El Furrial producing
field.

     Jose Terminal.  Through a long-term operations and maintenance agreement, a
consortium, in which Williams International owns 45 percent, operates the PDVSA,
Eastern Venezuela crude oil storage and shiploading terminal. Operations began
in the second quarter of 1999, and volumes have averaged 500,000 barrels per
day. Crude oil exports shipped through this offshore facility are expected to
generate approximately 30 percent of the state's forecasted revenues. PDVSA
expects to significantly increase the terminal's volume and capacity, currently
800,000 barrels per day, during the next several years.

     Pigap II.  In April 1999, a consortium in which Williams International owns
70 percent entered into an agreement with PDVSA Petroleo y Gas, S.A., to
develop, design, construct, operate, maintain and own a high pressure natural
gas injection facility and related infrastructure to take gas, process it and
deliver it for injection for secondary recovery of oil from the Santa
Barbara/Pirital oil fields located in North Monogas, Venezuela for an initial
term of 20 years. Williams International commenced construction in February
2000. Operations are expected to commence in 2002.

     Accroven.  Williams Global Energy Caymans Limited, Williams International
Venezuela Limited (together, the Buyers) and TCPL International Limited and TC
International Limited (together, the Sellers) have entered into a Share Purchase
and Sale Agreement dated November 22, 2000 whereby Buyers will acquire 49.25% of
the issued and outstanding quotas of Accroven (Accro III and IV), the Eastern
Venezuela project to build, own and operate two 400 million cubic feet per day
natural gas liquids extraction plants, a



50,000 barrel per day natural gas liquids fractionation plant and associated
storage and refrigeration facilities for Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. Closing is
expected to occur in the first quarter of 2001. Operations are expected to
commence in the second quarter of 2001.

     AB Mazeikiu Nafta.  In October 1999, Williams entered into an agreement
with the Government of Lithuania to acquire a 33 percent ownership interest and
the right to operate AB Mazeikiu Nafta (MN). MN consists of a 320,000 barrel per
day refinery, the 640,000 barrel per day crude oil and refined product pipeline
systems within Lithuania and a 160,000 barrel per day crude export facility on
the Baltic Sea. Williams commenced operating these assets in October 1999.

     Apco Argentina.  Williams International owns an interest in Apco Argentina
Inc., an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in
Argentina, whose securities are traded on the Nasdaq stock market. Apco
Argentina's principal business is its 47.6 percent interest in the Entre Lomas
concession in southwest Argentina. It also owns a 45 percent interest in the
Canadon Ramirez concession, and a 1.5 percent interest in the Acambuco
concession.

     At December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, estimated developed, proved reserves
net to Apco Argentina were 18.7, 20.0 and 15.5 million barrels, respectively, of
oil, condensate and plant products, and 42.6, 51.1 and 26.8 billion cubic feet,
respectively, of natural gas. Estimated undeveloped, proved reserves net to Apco
Argentina were 13.0, 9.0 and 5.1 million barrels, respectively, of oil,
condensate and plant products, and 16.6 billion cubic feet, 20.6 billion cubic
feet and 700 million cubic feet, respectively, of natural gas.

     At December 31, 2000, the gross and net developed concession acres owned by
Apco Argentina totaled 40,765 acres and 18,151 acres, respectively, and the
gross and net undeveloped concession acres owned were 501,235 acres and 114,435
acres, respectively. At December 31, 2000, Apco Argentina owned interests in 304
gross producing wells and 143 net producing wells on its concession acreage.

     Total net production sold during 2000, 1999 and 1998 was 1.8, 1.7 and 1.7
million barrels, respectively, of oil, condensate and plant products, and 6.0,
7.1 and 7.7 billion cubic feet, respectively, of natural gas. The average
production costs, including all costs of operations such as remedial well
workovers and depreciation of property and equipment, per barrel of oil produced
were $8.54, $8.26 and $9.09, respectively, and per thousand cubic feet of
natural gas produced were $.26, $.21 and $.23, respectively. The average
wellhead sales price per barrel of oil sold were $29.41, $17.75 and $12.71,
respectively, and per thousand cubic feet of natural gas sold were $1.35, $1.35
and $1.33, respectively, for the same periods.

OTHER INFORMATION

     Williams believes that it has adequate sources and availability of raw
materials to assure the continued supply of its services and products for
existing and anticipated business needs. Williams' pipeline systems are all
regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on the investments
made in the systems being limited to standards permitted by the regulatory
bodies. Each of the pipeline systems has ongoing capital requirements for
efficiency and mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also
necessitating periodic capital outlays.

     At December 31, 2000, Williams had approximately 24,100 full-time
employees, of whom approximately 1,880 were represented by unions and covered by
collective bargaining agreements. In September 1998, Williams created three new
companies in order to streamline payroll processing and reduce costs. In
connection with this, Williams transferred its employees to one of these
companies, and the employees are now jointly employed by Williams and one of
these new companies. This change had no impact on Williams' management structure
or on its employees' seniority and benefits. Williams considers its relations
with its employees to be generally good.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Certain matters discussed in this report, excluding historical information,
include forward-looking statements -- statements that discuss Williams' expected
future results based on current and pending business



operations. Williams makes these forward-looking statements in reliance on the
safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995.

     Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as
"anticipates," "believes," "expects," "planned," "scheduled" or similar
expressions. Although Williams believes these forward-looking statements are
based on reasonable assumptions, statements made regarding future results are
subject to a number of assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause
future results to be materially different from the results stated or implied in
this document.

     The following are important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from any results projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted:

     - Changes in general economic conditions in the United States.

     - Changes in federal or state laws and regulations to which Williams is
       subject, including tax, environmental and employment laws and
       regulations.

     - The cost and effects of legal and administrative claims and proceedings
       against Williams or its subsidiaries.

     - Conditions of the capital markets Williams utilizes to access capital to
       finance operations.

     - The ability to raise capital in a cost-effective way.

     - The effect of changes in accounting policies.

     - The ability to manage rapid growth.

     - The ability to control costs.

     - The ability of each business unit to successfully implement key systems,
       such as order entry systems and service delivery systems.

     - Changes in foreign economies, currencies, laws and regulations, and
       political climates, especially in Canada, Argentina, Brazil, Chile,
       Venezuela, Lithuania and Australia, where Williams has made direct
       investments.

     - The impact of future federal and state regulations of business
       activities, including allowed rates of return, the pace of deregulation
       in retail natural gas and electricity markets, and the resolution of
       other regulatory matters discussed herein.

     - Fluctuating energy commodity prices.

     - The ability of Williams' energy businesses to develop expanded markets
       and product offerings as well as their ability to maintain existing
       markets.

     - The ability of both the Gas Pipeline unit and the Energy Services unit to
       obtain governmental and regulatory approval of various expansion
       projects.

     - The ability of customers of the energy marketing and trading business to
       obtain governmental and regulatory approval of various projects,
       including power generation projects.

     - Future utilization of pipeline capacity, which can depend on energy
       prices, competition from other pipelines and alternative fuels, the
       general level of natural gas and petroleum product demand, decisions by
       customers not to renew expiring natural gas transportation contracts, and
       weather conditions.

     - The accuracy of estimated hydrocarbon reserves and seismic data.

     - The ability to successfully market capacity on the communications
       network.

     - Successful implementation by Williams Communications of its strategy to
       build a local access infrastructure.



     - Technological developments, high levels of competition, lack of customer
       diversification, and general uncertainties of government regulation in
       the communications industry.

     - Termination of the SBC strategic alliance or SBC Communications'
       inability to obtain regulatory approval to provide long-distance
       communications services within markets in which it currently provides
       local services.

     - Loss of a high volume Network customer.

     - The ability of Network to timely turn up service requests and minimize
       service interruptions.

     - The ability to successfully integrate any newly acquired businesses.

(d) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

     See Item 1(c) for a description of Williams' international activities. See
Note 23 for amounts of revenue and long-lived assets attributable to
international activities.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     See Item 1(c) for a description of the locations and general character of
the material properties of Williams and its subsidiaries.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     For information regarding certain proceedings pending before federal
regulatory agencies, see Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Williams is also subject to other ordinary routine litigation incidental to its
businesses.

     Environmental matters.  Since 1989, Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line have had studies under way to test certain of their facilities for the
presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any,
remediation may be necessary. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line has responded to
data requests regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites.
The costs of any such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation.
At December 31, 2000, these subsidiaries had accrued liabilities totaling
approximately $36 million for these costs.

     Certain Williams subsidiaries, including Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, have been identified as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at
various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these
subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other
hazardous materials removal or remediation obligations under environmental laws.
Although no assurances can be given, Williams does not believe that these
obligations or the PRP status of these subsidiaries will have a material adverse
effect on its financial position, results of operations or net cash flows.

     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have identified
polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in air compressor systems, soils
and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have also been involved in negotiations with
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies to develop
screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In addition, negotiations with certain
environmental authorities and other programs concerning investigative and
remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at certain gas
metering sites have been commenced by Central, Texas Gas and Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line. As of December 31, 2000, Central had accrued a liability for
approximately $10 million, representing the current estimate of future
environmental cleanup costs to be incurred over the next six to 10 years. Texas
Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line likewise had accrued liabilities for
these costs which are included in the $36 million liability mentioned above.
Actual costs incurred will depend on the actual number of contaminated sites
identified, the actual amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final
cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities and
other factors. Texas Gas, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and Central have
deferred these costs as incurred pending recovery through future rates and other
means.



     In July 1999, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line received a letter stating that
the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), at the request of the EPA, intends to file
a civil action against Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line arising from its waste
management practices at Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's compressor stations and
metering stations in 11 states from Texas to New Jersey. The DOJ stated in the
letter that its complaint will seek civil penalties and injunctive relief under
federal environmental laws. The DOJ and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line are
discussing a settlement. While no specific amount was proposed, the DOJ stated
that any settlement must include an appropriate civil penalty for the alleged
violations. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line cannot reasonably estimate the amount
of its potential liability, if any, at this time. However, Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line believes it has substantially addressed environmental concerns on its
system through ongoing voluntary remediation and management programs.

     Williams Energy and its subsidiaries also accrue environmental remediation
costs for its natural gas gathering and processing facilities, petroleum
products pipelines, retail petroleum and refining operations and for certain
facilities related to former propane marketing operations primarily related to
soil and groundwater contamination. In addition, Williams Energy owns a
discontinued petroleum refining facility that is being evaluated for potential
remediation efforts. At December 31, 2000, Williams Energy and its subsidiaries
had accrued liabilities totaling approximately $49 million. Williams Energy
accrues receivables related to environmental remediation costs based upon an
estimate of amounts that will be reimbursed from state funds for certain
expenses associated with underground storage tank problems and repairs. At
December 31, 2000, Williams Energy and its subsidiaries had accrued receivables
totaling $15 million.

     Williams Field Services (WFS) received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the
EPA in February 2000. WFS received a contemporaneous letter from the DOJ
indicating that DOJ will also be involved in the matter. The NOV alleged
violations of the Clean Air Act at a gas processing plant. WFS, the EPA and the
DOJ agreed to settle this matter for a penalty of $850,000. In the course of
investigating this matter, WFS discovered a similar potential violation at the
plant and disclosed it to the EPA and the DOJ. The parties will discuss whether
additional enforcement action is warranted.

     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company,
Williams agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs
resulting from certain conditions at specified locations, to the extent such
costs exceed a specified amount. At December 31, 2000, Williams had
approximately $12 million accrued for such excess costs. The actual costs
incurred will depend on the actual amount and extent of contamination
discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other
governmental authorities, and other factors.

     Other legal matters.  In connection with agreements to resolve take-or-pay
and other contract claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line and Texas Gas each entered into certain settlements with producers
which may require the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties
which the producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. As a
result of such settlements, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line is currently
defending two lawsuits brought by producers. In one of the cases, a jury verdict
found that Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line was required to pay a producer damages
of $23.3 million including $3.8 million in attorneys' fees. In addition, through
December 31, 2000, postjudgement interest was approximately $7.5 million.
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's appeals have been denied by the Texas Court of
Appeals for the First District of Texas, and the company is pursuing an appeal
to the Texas Supreme Court. In the other case, a producer has asserted damages,
including interest calculated through December 31, 1997, of approximately $6
million. In August 2000, a producer asserted a claim for approximately $6.7
million against Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line. Producers have received and may
receive other demands, which could result in additional claims. Indemnification
for royalties will depend on, among other things, the specific lease provisions
between the producer and the lessor and the terms of the settlement between the
producer and either Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line or Texas Gas. Texas Gas may
file to recover 75 percent of any such additional amounts it may be required to
pay pursuant to indemnities for royalties under the provisions of Order 528.

     In 1998, the United States Department of Justice informed Williams that
Jack Grynberg, an individual, had filed claims in the United States District
Court for the District of Colorado under the False Claims Act



against Williams and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries including Williams
Gas Pipelines Central, Kern River Gas Transmission, Northwest Pipeline, Williams
Gas Pipeline Company, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, Texas Gas,
Williams Field Services Company and Williams Production Company. Mr. Grynberg
has also filed claims against approximately 300 other energy companies and
alleges that the defendants violated the False Claims Act in connection with the
measurement and purchase of hydrocarbons. The relief sought is an unspecified
amount of royalties allegedly not paid to the federal government, treble
damages, a civil penalty, attorneys' fees, and costs. On April 9, 1999, the
United States Department of Justice announced that it was declining to intervene
in any of the Grynberg qui tam cases, including the action filed against the
Williams entities in the United States District Court for the District of
Colorado. On October 21, 1999, the Panel on Multi-District Litigation
transferred all of the Grynberg qui tam cases, including the ones filed against
Williams, to the United States District Court for the District of Wyoming for
pre-trial purposes. Motions to dismiss the complaints, filed by various
defendants including Williams, are pending.

     Williams Communications Group, Inc. (WCG) and a subsidiary are named as
defendants in various putative, nationwide class actions brought on behalf of
all landowners on whose property the plaintiffs have alleged WCG installed
fiber-optic cable without the permission of the landowner. WCG believes that
installation of the cable containing the single fiber network that crosses over
or near the putative class members' land does not infringe on their property
rights. WCG also does not believe that the plaintiffs have sufficient basis for
certification of a class action.

     It is likely that WCG will be subject to other putative class action suits
challenging its railroad or pipeline rights of way. WCG cannot quantify the
impact of all such claims at this time. Thus, WCG cannot be certain that the
plaintiffs' purported class action or other purported class actions, if
successful, will not have a material adverse effect on WCG's future financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

     On September 7, 2000, All-Phase Utility Corp. amended its complaint in a
matter originally filed June 28, 1999, against Williams Communication, Inc.
(WCI), a subsidiary of WCG, in the United States District Court for Oregon. In
the amended complaint, All-Phase alleged actual damages of at least $236.5
million plus punitive damages of an additional amount equal to double the amount
of actual damages. All-Phase alleged that a portion of WCI's Eugene, Oregon to
Bandon, Oregon route is based on confidential information developed by All-Phase
and that WCI breached its non-disclosure agreement with All-Phase and violated
the Oregon Trade Secrets Act by using it. All-Phase also alleged that WCI
misrepresented plans for the route and that, as a result, All-Phase lost the
opportunity to build its own line along the same route. All-Phase alleged that
its damages include loss of profit from the construction it believed it would
have performed for WCI and lost revenue from leases of fiber-optic cable and
conduits. On January 22, 2001, the court granted WCI's motion for summary
judgement and dismissed the case.

     In November 2000, class actions were filed on behalf of San Diego rate
payers against California power generators and traders including Williams Energy
Marketing & Trading Company, a subsidiary of Williams. In January 2001, other
class actions were filed, one on behalf of the people of California in San
Francisco, California by the city attorney and the other by a California water
authority and district. These lawsuits concern the increase in power prices in
California over the past several months. Williams is also a defendant in other
private suits. The suits claim that the defendants acted to manipulate prices in
violation of the California antitrust and business practice statutes and other
state and federal laws. Plaintiffs are seeking injunctive relief as well as
restitution, disgorgement, appointment of a receiver, and damages, including
treble damages.

     On December 20, 2000, the Women's Cooperative Trust Union filed a
derivative shareholder action in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Oklahoma against Williams, Williams Communications and
certain directors and officers alleging that certain named defendants were
involved in the purchase of shares of stock at a reduced price of two
corporations with which Williams Communications had contracted for the purchase
of telecommunication equipment. The allegations include breach of fiduciary
duty, waste of corporate assets and usurpation of corporate opportunities.
Plaintiff seeks compensatory damages, rescission of all transactions between the
named individual officers and directors and the two corporations, including
disgorgement of any profits, punitive damages and attorneys' fees and costs.



     On January 18, 2001, the attorneys representing Williams and Williams
Communications in their corporate capacity, as well as the attorneys
representing the individual directors of Williams and Williams Communications,
filed Motions to Dismiss based upon failure to make a demand on the Boards and
failure to plead demand futility with particularity. Counsel for Williams and
Williams Communications has also filed a motion requesting a transfer of the
venue from the Western District of Oklahoma to the Northern District of
Oklahoma. Defendants' motions remain pending.

  Summary

     While no assurances may be given, Williams, based on advice of counsel,
does not believe that the ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as
a whole and after consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery
from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will have a materially
adverse effect upon Williams' future financial position, results of operations
or cash flow requirements.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF WILLIAMS

     The names, ages, positions and earliest election dates of the executive
officers of Williams are:



     Except for Mr. Johnson, all of the above officers have been employed by
Williams or its subsidiaries as officers or otherwise for more than five years
and have had no other employment during the period. Prior to joining Williams,
Mr. Johnson held various officer positions with Amoco Corporation for more than
five years.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     Williams' common stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Stock
exchanges under the symbol "WMB." At the close of business on December 31, 2000,
Williams had approximately 14,272 holders of record of its Common Stock. The
high and low closing sales price ranges (composite transactions) and dividends
declared by quarter for each of the past two years are as follows:



     Terms of certain subsidiaries' borrowing arrangements limit the transfer of
funds to Williams. These terms have not impeded, nor are they expected to
impede, Williams' ability to meet its cash flow needs.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following financial data as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 and for the
three years ended December 31, 2000 are an integral part of, and should be read
in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.
All other amounts have been prepared from the Company's financial records.
Certain amounts below have been restated or reclassified (see Note 1).
Information concerning significant trends in the financial condition and results
of operations is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations on pages 39 through 56 of this report.



- ---------------

(1) See Note 1 for discussion of the 1998 change in the reporting of certain
    marketing activities from a "gross" basis to a "net" basis consistent with
    fair value accounting.

(2) See Note 5 for discussion of asset sales, impairments and other accruals in
    2000, 1999 and 1998. Income from continuing operations in 1997 includes a
    $22.7 million pre-tax loss related to the sale of Williams' learning content
    business and a $66 million pre-tax gain on the sale of Williams' interest in
    the natural gas liquids and condensate reserves in the West Panhandle field
    in Texas. Income from continuing operations in 1996 includes a $15.7 million
    pre-tax gain from the sale of certain communications rights and a $20.8
    million pre-tax gain from the sale of certain propane and liquid fertilizer
    assets.

(3) See Note 3 for the discussion of the 2000, 1999 and 1998 losses from
    discontinued operations. The loss from discontinued operations for 1997 and
    1996 relates to divestiture of Williams' Solutions segment and the sale of
    the MAPCO coal business.

(4) See Note 7 for discussion of the 1999 extraordinary gain and 1998
    extraordinary loss. The extraordinary loss for 1997 relates to the early
    retirement of $1.3 billion of debt.

(5) See Note 16 for discussion of the 1999 issuance of subsidiary's common
    stock.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

     In January 2001, the board of directors of Williams authorized a plan for
its management to divest operations that previously comprised the Communications
Solutions segment. As a result, the consolidated financial statements have been
restated to present the Communications Solutions segment as discontinued
operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion and analysis of
results of operations, financial condition and liquidity relates to the
continuing operations of Williams and should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  2000 vs. 1999

     Consolidated Overview.  Williams' revenues increased $3.2 billion, or 45
percent, due primarily to higher Energy Services' revenues from natural gas and
electric power services, increased petroleum products and natural gas liquids
average sales prices and sales volumes and the contribution from Canadian
operations acquired in fourth quarter 2000. Revenues also increased due to
growth in Communications' voice and data services. Partially offsetting these
increases were lower fleet management, retail natural gas, electric and propane
revenues at Energy Services following the 1999 sales of these businesses and
lower Communications' dark fiber lease revenues.

     Segment costs and expenses increased $2.3 billion, or 38 percent, due
primarily to higher costs related to increased petroleum products and natural
gas liquids average purchase prices and volumes purchased and costs related to
the Canadian operations acquired in fourth quarter 2000. Also contributing to
the increases were higher costs and expenses from growth of Communications'
Network operations and infrastructure, higher variable compensation levels
associated with improved performance at Energy Services and higher impairment
charges and guarantee loss accruals at Energy Services. Partially offsetting
these increases were lower fleet management, retail natural gas, electric and
propane costs following the sales of these businesses in 1999.

     Operating income increased $877.2 million, or 98 percent, due primarily to
a $1 billion increase at Energy Services and a $44 million increase at Gas
Pipeline, partially offset by $191 million higher losses at Communications.
Energy Services' increase reflects improved natural gas and electric power
services margins and higher per-unit natural gas liquids margins, partially
offset by higher variable compensation levels and the higher impairment charges
and guarantee loss accruals in 2000. Gas Pipeline's increase reflects increased
transportation demand revenues, higher equity investment earnings and the net
effect of reductions to rate refund liabilities in 2000 over 1999. The increased
losses at Communications reflect losses associated with providing customer
services prior to completion of the new network, higher depreciation and network
lease expense as the network is brought into service and higher selling, general
and administrative expenses including costs associated with infrastructure
growth and improvement.

     Income from continuing operations before income taxes and extraordinary
gain (loss) increased $1,093.6 million, from $333.6 million in 1999 to $1,427.2
million in 2000, due primarily to $877 million higher operating income and $370
million higher investing income. The increase in investing income resulted from
a $214.7 million gain from the conversion of Williams' common stock investment
in Concentric Network Corporation for common stock of XO Communications, Inc.
(formerly Nextlink Communications, Inc.) pursuant to a merger of those two
companies in June 2000, net gains totaling $94.5 million from the sale of
certain marketable equity securities, a $16.5 million gain on the sale of a
portion of the investment in ATL-Algar Telecom Leste S.A. (ATL) and higher
interest income, partially offset by $34.5 million of losses related to
write-downs of certain cost basis and equity investments. Also partially
offsetting the above increases was $196.1 million higher net interest expense
reflecting increased debt in support of continued expansion and new projects.



GAS PIPELINE

     Gas Pipeline's revenues increased $74.6 million, or 4 percent, due
primarily to $74 million of rate refund liability reductions associated mainly
with a favorable FERC order received in March 2000 by Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line (Transco) related to the rate-of-return and capital structure issues in a
regulatory proceeding. Revenues also increased due to $68 million higher gas
exchange imbalance settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses), $23
million higher transportation demand revenues at Transco, $18 million higher
equity investment earnings from pipeline joint venture projects and $14 million
higher storage revenues. Partially offsetting the increases were a total of $66
million of reductions to rate refund liabilities in 1999 by four of the gas
pipelines resulting primarily from second and fourth-quarter 1999 regulatory
proceedings and $57 million lower reimbursable costs passed through to customers
(offset in costs and operating expenses).

     Segment profit increased $44.2 million, or 6 percent, due to $23 million
higher transportation demand revenues at Transco, $18 million higher equity
investment earnings, $11 million lower general and administrative expenses and
$8 million net effect of rate refund liability reductions discussed above. The
lower general and administrative costs reflect lower professional services costs
associated with year 2000 compliance work, efficiencies realized from the
headquarters consolidation of two of the pipelines and other cost reduction
initiatives and the effect of a $2.3 million accrual in 1999 for damages
associated with two pipeline ruptures in the northwest, partially offset by
expenses related to the headquarters consolidation. Partially offsetting the
segment profit increases were $10 million higher depreciation expense primarily
due to increased property, plant and equipment, higher charitable contributions
in 2000 and $6 million of accruals for gas exchange imbalances.

ENERGY SERVICES

     Energy Marketing & Trading's revenues increased $912.4 million, or 138
percent, due to a $1,073 million increase in trading revenues partially offset
by a $161 million decrease in non-trading revenues. The $1,073 million increase
in trading revenues is due primarily to higher natural gas and electric power
services margins. The higher gas and electric power services margins reflect the
benefit of price volatility and increased demand for ancillary services,
primarily in the western region of the United States, expanded price risk
management services including higher structured transactions margins, increased
overall market demand and increased trading volumes. The increased trading
volumes and price risk management services reflect the expansion of the power
trading portfolio to include an additional 2,350 megawatts from contracts giving
Energy Marketing & Trading the right to market combined capacity from three
power generating plants which were signed in late 1999 and early 2000. At
December 31, 2000, Energy Marketing & Trading had rights to market 7,000
megawatts of electric generation capacity for periods ranging from 15 to 20
years. Of the 7,000 megawatts, approximately 4,000 megawatts are from facilities
in California.

     The $161 million decrease in non-trading revenues is due primarily to $226
million lower revenues following the sale of the retail natural gas, electric
and propane businesses in 1999, partially offset by $19 million higher revenues
from a distributed power generation business that was transferred from Petroleum
Services during 2000 and $33 million higher natural gas liquids revenues
resulting from higher average sales prices and volumes attributable to a
petrochemical plant that was acquired by Williams in early 1999.

     Costs and operating expenses decreased $129 million, or 30 percent, due
primarily to lower natural gas, electric and propane cost of sales and operating
expenses of $112 million and $91 million, partially offset by $20 million higher
cost of sales and operating expenses relating to the distributed power
generation business and $25 million higher natural gas liquids cost of sales
attributable to the petrochemical plant. These variances are associated with the
corresponding changes in non-trading revenues discussed above.

     Other expense -- net changed unfavorably from income of $23 million in 1999
to expense of $48 million in 2000. The expense for 2000 includes $47.5 million
of guarantee loss and impairment accruals (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements) and a $16 million impairment of assets to fair value based
on expected net proceeds related to management's decision and commitment to sell
its distributed power generation business. Partially offsetting these 2000
charges was a $12.4 million gain on the sale of certain



natural gas liquids contracts. Other expense -- net in 1999 includes a $22.3
million gain on the sale of retail natural gas and electric operations (see Note
5).

     Segment profit increased $903.9 million, from $104 million in 1999 to
$1,007.9 million in 2000, due primarily to $1,073 million higher trading margins
primarily related to natural gas and electric power services. Partially
offsetting the higher margins were $66 million higher selling, general and
administrative costs, the $47.5 million guarantee loss and impairment accruals,
the $16 million impairment of the distributed power generation business, the
$22.3 million gain in 1999 on sale of retail natural gas and electric operations
and a $23 million lower contribution from retail natural gas, electric and
propane following the sale of those businesses in 1999. The higher selling,
general and administrative costs primarily reflect higher variable compensation
levels associated with improved operating performance, partially offset by $40
million of selling, general and administrative costs related to the retail
natural gas, electric and propane businesses sold in 1999.

     Exploration & Production's revenues increased $104.1 million, or 55
percent, due primarily to $65 million from increased average natural gas sales
prices (net of the effect of hedge positions), $35 million associated with
increases in both company-owned production volumes and marketing volumes from
the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust and royalty interest owners and an $8
million contribution in first-quarter 2000 of oil and gas properties acquired in
April 1999. Exploration and Production hedged approximately 50 percent of
production in 2000 and has entered into contracts that hedge approximately 70
percent of 2001 estimated production. The future contracted hedge prices are at
prices lower than the spot market prices of natural gas at the end of 2000;
however, the contracted hedged prices are higher than Exploration & Production's
realized average natural gas price for 2000.

     Other expense -- net in 2000 includes a $6 million impairment charge
relating to management's decision to sell certain gas producing properties. The
charge represents the impairment of the assets to fair value based on expected
net proceeds. Other expense -- net in 1999 includes a $14.7 million gain from
the sale of certain interests in gas producing properties which contributed $2
million to segment profit in 1999 and a $7.7 million gain from the sale of
certain other properties.

     Segment profit increased $22.6 million, or 57 percent, due primarily to the
higher revenues discussed previously, partially offset by $43 million higher gas
purchase costs related to the marketing of natural gas from the Williams Coal
Seam Gas Royalty Trust and royalty interest owners, $22 million of gains on
sales of assets in 1999, $10 million higher production-related taxes and the $6
million impairment charge in 2000.

     Midstream Gas & Liquids' revenues increased $491.9 million, or 48 percent,
due primarily to $267 million higher natural gas liquids sales from processing
activities and $183 million in revenues from Canadian operations purchased in
October 2000. The liquids sales increase reflects $172 million from a 49 percent
increase in average natural gas liquids sales prices and $95 million from a 37
percent increase in volumes sold. The increase in natural gas liquids sales
volumes result from improved liquids market conditions in 2000 and a full year
of results from a plant which became operational in June 1999. The $183 million
of revenues from the Canadian operations consist primarily of $165 million in
natural gas liquids sales and $15 million of processing revenues. In addition,
revenues increased due to $24 million higher natural gas liquids pipeline
transportation revenues associated with increased shipments following improved
market conditions and the completion of the Rocky Mountain liquids pipeline
expansion in November 1999 and $8 million lower equity investment losses, mainly
from the Discovery pipeline project.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $412 million, or 60 percent, due
primarily to the $183 million of expenses related to the Canadian operations,
$147 million higher liquids fuel and replacement gas purchases, $17 million
higher power costs related to the natural gas liquids pipeline, $17 million in
higher gathering and processing fuel costs due to increased natural gas prices
and a full year of operation for two processing facilities, $15 million higher
transportation, fractionation, and marketing expenses related to the higher
natural gas liquid sales, $14 million higher depreciation expense, and $12
million of losses associated with certain propane storage transactions.

     General and administrative expenses increased $11 million, or 11 percent,
due primarily to $12 million of reorganization costs and $3 million associated
with the Canadian operations purchased in 2000. The



$12 million of reorganization costs relate to the reorganization of Midstream's
operations including the consolidation in Tulsa of certain support functions
previously located in Salt Lake City and Houston. In connection with this,
Williams offered certain employees enhanced retirement benefits under an early
retirement incentive program in first-quarter 2000, and incurred severance,
relocation and other exit costs.

     Segment profit increased $72.7 million, or 32 percent, due primarily to $81
million from higher per-unit natural gas liquids margins, $24 million from
increased natural gas liquids volumes sold, $8 million lower equity investment
losses and $6 million from the natural gas liquids pipeline. Partially
offsetting these increases to segment profit were $14 million higher
depreciation expense, $17 million higher gathering and processing fuel costs,
$12 million of propane storage losses and $11 million higher general and
administrative expenses.

     Petroleum Services' revenues increased $1,646 million, or 55 percent, due
primarily to $1,376 million higher refinery revenues (including $240 million
higher intra-segment sales to the travel centers/convenience stores which are
eliminated) and $455 million higher travel center/convenience store sales. The
$1,376 million increase in refinery revenues reflects $1,113 million from 59
percent higher average refined product sales prices and $263 million from a 16
percent increase in refined product volumes sold. The increase in refined
product volumes sold follows refinery expansions and improvements in mid-to-late
1999 and May 2000 which increased capacity. The $455 million increase in travel
center/convenience store sales reflects $260 million from 32 percent higher
average gasoline and diesel sales prices, $171 million primarily from a 64
percent increase in diesel sales volumes and $24 million higher merchandise
sales. The increase in diesel sales volumes and the higher merchandise sales
reflect the opening of 8 new travel centers since fourth-quarter 1999. Williams
plans to open or acquire 24 travel centers in 2001. Slightly offsetting these
increases were $91 million lower fleet management revenues following the sale of
a portion of such operations in late 1999, $21 million lower distribution
revenues due to a reduction of the propane trucking operations and $16 million
lower pipeline construction revenues following substantial completion of the
Longhorn pipeline project. This refined products pipeline, in which Williams has
a 31.5 percent ownership, is awaiting environmental and regulatory approvals and
operations are expected to commence in 2002.

     In December 2000, Williams signed an agreement to sell 198 of its
convenience stores, primarily in the Tennessee metropolitan areas of Memphis and
Nashville. Revenues related to these convenience stores for 2000 and 1999 were
$466 million and $453 million, respectively. The sale is expected to close in
the first half of 2001.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $1,585 million, or 58 percent, due
primarily to $1,349 million higher refining costs and $470 million higher travel
center/convenience store costs (including $240 million higher intra-segment
purchases from the refineries which are eliminated). The $1,349 million increase
in refining costs reflects $1,088 million from higher crude supply costs and
other related per-unit cost of sales, $221 million associated with increased
volumes sold and $40 million higher operating costs at the refineries. The $470
million increase in travel center/convenience store costs includes $273 million
from higher average gasoline and diesel purchase prices, $159 million primarily
from increased diesel sales volumes and $38 million higher store operating
costs. Slightly offsetting these increases were $101 million lower fleet
management operating costs following the sale of a portion of such operations in
late 1999, $18 million lower cost of distribution activities following a
reduction of the propane trucking operations and $14 million lower pipeline
construction costs following substantial completion of the Longhorn pipeline
project.

     Segment profit increased $24.8 million, or 15 percent, due primarily to $42
million from increased refined product volumes sold and $25 million from
increased per-unit refinery margins, partially offset by $40 million higher
operating costs at the refineries. In addition, segment profit increased $18
million from bio-energy operations primarily reflecting increased ethanol sales
prices and volumes, $13 million from increased terminalling activities following
the 1999 acquisition, $10 million from the absence of certain fleet management
losses in 2000, $8 million from Williams' interest in the TransAlaska Pipeline
System acquired in late June 2000 and $8 million from activities at the
petrochemical plant acquired in March 1999. Partially offsetting these increases
to segment profit were a $6 million lower contribution from transportation
activities and a lower contribution from the travel centers/convenience stores
which had $38 million higher operating



costs offset partially by a $24 million increase in gross profit on merchandise
sales. In addition, segment profit in 2000 was decreased by $12 million higher
selling, general and administrative expense and a $25 million unfavorable change
in other expense -- net. Other expense -- net for 2000 includes a $12 million
impairment charge related to end-to-end mobile computing systems and a $7
million write-off of a retail software system. The impairment charge results
from management's decision to sell certain of its end-to-end mobile computing
systems and represents the impairment of the assets to fair value based on
expected net sales proceeds. The primary component in other expense -- net for
1999 was a $6.5 million favorable effect of settlement of transportation
pipeline rate case issues.

COMMUNICATIONS

     Williams has announced that its board of directors has authorized its
management to take steps that may lead to a tax-free distribution of shares of
Williams Communications' shares held by Williams to its shareholders. Assuming
that market conditions and other factors continue to support such a tax-free
spin-off, Williams has announced that its board of directors would expect to
vote during the first part of 2001 to set a record date, the ratio of a share of
Williams Communications stock that will be issued for each share of Williams
stock, and to direct the distribution of Williams Communications shares. Certain
of Williams' and Williams Communications' debt agreements include covenants or
other restrictions that would require amendment or waivers from lenders before a
spin-off could be completed.

     While no final decision has been made whether to separate the businesses,
Williams, in an effort to strengthen Williams Communications capital structure,
has contributed an outstanding promissory note from Williams Communications of
approximately $975 million and certain other assets, including a building under
construction, in exchange for 24.3 million newly issued common shares of
Williams Communications. Williams is also evaluating several credit support
mechanisms to further enable Communications to obtain the capital needed to
allow it to continue to execute its growth plan and business strategy.

     Network's revenues increased $269.8 million, or 61 percent, due primarily
to $312 million from growth in voice and data services provided to customers,
partially offset by $47 million lower revenues from dark fiber leases accounted
for as sales-type leases on the new fiber-optic network and $14 million lower
revenue from an Australian telecommunications operation. Approximately 50
percent of the increase in voice and data revenues is attributable to SBC
Communications, Inc. (SBC). The increase in SBC revenues is primarily related to
the decision by the Federal Communications Commission, announced at the end of
second-quarter 2000, allowing SBC to sell long-distance service in Texas.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $405 million, or 89 percent, due
primarily to $204 million higher off-net capacity and local access connection
costs associated with providing increased customer services, $94 million higher
depreciation expense as portions of the new network are placed into service, $64
million higher operating and maintenance expenses to support increased revenues
and future revenue streams and $52 million higher network lease expense for the
leased portion of the network, partially offset by $25 million lower
construction costs associated with dark fiber leases accounted for as sales-type
leases and $12 million decreased operating expenses from an Australian
telecommunications operation.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $96 million, or 64
percent, due primarily to costs associated with adding resources and
infrastructure required to increase and serve a growing customer base as more of
the network is installed and lit.

     Segment loss decreased $52.9 million, or 32 percent, due primarily to a
$214.7 million gain from the conversion of Williams' shares of Concentric
Network Corporation's common stock into shares of XO Communications, Inc.'s
(formerly NEXTLINK Communications, Inc.) common stock pursuant to a merger of
those companies in June 2000 and net gains totaling $93.7 million from the sales
of certain marketable equity securities (see Note 4), partially offset by $146
million higher depreciation and network lease expense, $96 million higher
selling, general and administrative expenses, and $27 million in write-downs of
cost-basis and equity method investments resulting from management's estimate of
the permanent decline in the value of these investments (see Note 4).



     Broadband Media's revenues decreased $4.7 million due primarily to $11
million of equity investment losses in 2000 partially offset by higher revenues
from media distribution and video transmission services. The equity losses
reflect the change in accounting for an investment beginning in first quarter
2000 from consolidation to equity method accounting as ownership fell below 50
percent and Williams no longer exercised control over the operations.

     Segment loss increased $17 million, due primarily to the $11 million of
equity investment losses and $7 million higher selling, general and
administrative costs.

     Strategic Investments' revenues decreased $22.6 million due primarily to
the $35.4 million effect of businesses that have been sold or otherwise exited,
primarily audio and video conferencing and closed-circuit video broadcasting
businesses, partially offset by $13 million lower equity investment losses
following the first-quarter 2000 sale of a portion of the investment in
ATL-Algar Telecom Leste S.A. (ATL). Revenues for 2000, which are negative,
represent $14 million of equity investment losses from ATL.

     Costs and operating expenses decreased $26 million and selling, general and
administrative expenses decreased $16 million due primarily to the sale of the
audio and video conferencing and closed-circuit video broadcasting businesses.

     Other expense -- net in 1999 includes a $28.4 million loss related to the
sales of certain audio- and video-conferencing and closed circuit video
broadcasting businesses (see Note 5) and $5.5 million of asset impairment
charges related to management's decision to abandon the wireless remote
monitoring, meter reading equipment and related services business.

     Segment loss decreased $57.5 million from a $65.4 million loss in 1999, due
primarily to $33.9 million of losses, asset impairment charges and exit costs in
1999 relating to management's decision and commitment to sell the audio and
video conferencing and closed-circuit video broadcasting businesses (see Note
5), a $16.5 million gain on the sale of a portion of the investment in ATL in
the first quarter of 2000 (see Note 4), $13 million lower equity investment
losses, a $14 million income effect of businesses that were generating losses
that have been sold or otherwise exited, and $3.7 million of dividends from a
telecommunications investment. These were partially offset by $9.4 million of
dividends in 1999 from a telecommunications investment and a $7.5 million
writedown in 2000 of a cost basis investment resulting from management's
estimate of the permanent decline in the value of this investment (see Note 4).

OTHER

     Other revenues increased $26.5 million, or 23 percent, due primarily to $17
million higher Venezuelan gas compression revenues reflecting higher volumes in
2000 following operational problems experienced in first-quarter 1999 and $8
million of improved international equity investment earnings.

     Segment profit increased $10.4 million from $8.4 million in 1999 to $18.8
million in 2000, due primarily to $14 million increased operating income from
Venezuelan gas compression operations and $8 million higher international equity
investment earnings, partially offset by a $7 million operating loss due to
early startup costs of soda ash production operations, $4 million of equity
earnings in 1999 related to an equity investment which was transferred to Gas
Pipeline in mid 1999 and $2 million in foreign currency transaction losses. The
$8 million improved international equity investment earnings reflect the change
in accounting for an equity investment to a cost basis investment following a
reduction of management influence and higher equity earnings from a South
American equity investment. These increases to equity earnings were partially
offset by higher equity losses from a Lithuanian refinery, pipeline and terminal
investment acquired in fourth-quarter 1999, which continues to be challenged in
obtaining market priced crude oil supplies and has not yet consummated any
long-term supply contracts.

CONSOLIDATED

     General corporate expenses increased $14.9 million, or 20 percent and
include $6.3 million and $5.5 million in 2000 and 1999, respectively, of general
corporate costs which would have otherwise been allocated to a discontinued
operation. Interest accrued increased $342.4 million, or 51 percent due
primarily to


the $195 million effect of higher borrowing levels combined with the $136
million effect of higher average interest rates. These increases reflect the
issuance of $1 billion of high-yield debt in August 2000 by Communications,
issuance of $2 billion of high-yield public debt in October 1999 by
Communications, and higher short-term borrowing towards the end of 2000.
Interest capitalized increased $146.3 million, from $69.8 million in 1999 to
$216.1 million in 2000, due primarily to increased capital expenditures for the
fiber-optic network. Investing income increased $369.6 million, from $68.5
million in 1999 to $438.1 million in 2000, due primarily to $328.6 million of
net gains from sales/conversion of investments and dividends previously
discussed within Communications' segment profit and $64 million higher interest
income associated primarily with the temporary investment of proceeds from
Communications' equity and debt offerings, partially offset by $34.5 million
related to writedowns of certain cost basis and equity investments (previously
discussed in Communications' segment profit).

     Minority interest in (income) loss and preferred returns of consolidated
subsidiaries changed $29.7 million from a loss of $17.7 million in 1999 to $12
million of income in 2000. The change is due primarily to the effect of the 14.7
percent minority ownership interest in losses at Communications following the
October 1999 initial public offering, partially offset by preferred returns
related to Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities issued
in December 1999.

     The provision for income taxes increased $392.8 million, from $161.2
million in 1999 to $554 million in 2000, due to higher pre-tax income, partially
offset by a lower effective income tax rate. The effective income tax rate in
2000 exceeds the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effects of state
income taxes. The effective income tax rate in 1999 is significantly higher than
the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effects of state income taxes,
losses of foreign entities not deductible for U.S. tax purposes, and the impact
of goodwill not deductible for tax purposes related to assets impaired during
the second quarter of 1999 (see Notes 4 and 6).

     Loss from discontinued operations in 2000 includes an $89.1 million
after-tax loss from operations of Communications Solutions and a $259.8 million
estimated after-tax loss on disposal of Communications Solutions. The $16.2
million loss from discontinued operations in 1999 represents the after-tax loss
from operations of Communications Solutions. The increase in the after-tax loss
from operations of Communications Solutions results from a decrease in gross
profit due to decreased revenues consistent with the overall slowdown in the
telecommunications equipment distribution industry combined with increased
installation and service costs, an increase in the provision for doubtful
accounts of $35.5 million reflecting an increase in aged receivables, a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle of $21.6 million,
partially offset by a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses
and higher minority interest in the losses as a result of the 1999 WCG public
offering. The after-tax loss on disposal includes estimated operating losses
until completion of the sale, estimated losses upon the ultimate sale of the
segment and estimated exit costs (see Note 3).

     The $65.2 million 1999 extraordinary gain results from the sale of
Williams' retail propane business (see Note 7).

  1999 vs. 1998

     Consolidated Overview.  Williams' revenues increased $1,152 million, or 19
percent, due primarily to higher revenues from increased petroleum products and
natural gas liquids sales volumes and average sales prices, increased revenues
from retail natural gas and electric activities following a late 1998
acquisition, higher natural gas services revenues and increases in
Communications' dark fiber lease revenues and new business growth. In addition,
revenues increased due to the acquisition of a petrochemical plant in 1999,
higher revenues from fleet management and mobile computer technology operations
and reductions of rate refund liabilities at Gas Pipeline. Partially offsetting
these increases were the effects of reporting certain revenues net of costs
within Energy Services beginning April 1, 1998 (see Note 1), lower pipeline
construction revenues and lower electric power services revenues reflecting, in
part, the designation of an electric power contract as trading following the
adoption in 1999 of EITF 98-10, "Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy
Trading and Risk Management Activities."



     Segment costs and expenses increased $1,039 million, or 20 percent, due
primarily to higher costs related to increased petroleum products and natural
gas liquids volumes purchased and average purchase prices, higher retail natural
gas and electric costs following a late 1998 acquisition, higher costs and
expenses from growth of Communications' Network operations and infrastructure,
$33.9 million of 1999 losses and asset impairments at Communications, increased
fleet management and mobile computer technology operations and higher selling,
general and administrative expenses. Partially offsetting these increases were
the effects of reporting certain costs net in revenues within Energy Services
beginning April 1, 1998 (see Note 1), lower electric power services costs, lower
pipeline construction costs and $45 million of gains from asset sales by Energy
Services in 1999 other expense -- net. In addition, 1998 included $80 million of
MAPCO merger-related costs (including $29 million within general corporate
expenses) (see Note 2), a $58.4 million charge at Gas Pipeline related to
certain long-term gas supply contracts, $29 million of asset write-downs at
Communications and $31 million of retail natural gas and electric credit loss
accruals and asset impairments at Energy Services.

     Operating income increased $133 million, or 17 percent, due primarily to
increases at Energy Services and Gas Pipeline of $105 million and $87 million,
respectively, and the effect in 1998 of MAPCO merger-related costs totaling $80
million, partially offset by $123 million higher losses at Communications.
Energy Services' increase reflects improved natural gas trading activities,
increased natural gas liquids volumes and margins, $45 million in gains from the
sales of assets and the effect in 1998 of $31 million of retail natural gas and
electric credit loss accruals and asset impairments, partially offset by higher
selling, general and administrative expenses and lower results from electric
power trading activities and retail petroleum operations. Gas Pipeline's
increase reflects the net favorable revenue effect of 1999 and 1998 adjustments
associated with regulatory and rate issues and the effect of the $58.4 million
charge in 1998 related to certain long-term gas supply contracts. The additional
losses at Communications reflect higher selling, general and administrative
expenses, including costs associated with infrastructure growth and improvement,
losses experienced from providing customer services prior to completion of the
new network and $31 million higher losses from start-up activities of Australian
and Brazilian communications operations.

     Income from continuing operations before income taxes and extraordinary
gain (loss) increased $54 million, or 19 percent, due primarily to $133 million
higher operating income, $44 million of higher investing income and the effect
of 1998 litigation loss accruals and other settlement adjustments totaling $11
million, partially offset by $115 million higher net interest expense reflecting
increased debt in support of continued expansion and new projects.

GAS PIPELINE

     Gas Pipeline's revenues increased $146.8 million, or 9 percent, due
primarily to a total of $66 million of reductions to rate refund liabilities,
resulting primarily from second-quarter 1999 regulatory proceedings involving
rate-of-return methodology for three of the gas pipelines and fourth-quarter
1999 revisions following other regulatory proceedings. Revenues also increased
due to $65 million higher gas exchange imbalance settlements, $36 million higher
reimbursable costs passed through to customers (both offset in costs and
operating expenses) and $14 million from expansion projects and new services.
These increases were partially offset by $21 million of favorable 1998
adjustments from the settlement of rate case issues and lower transportation
revenues associated with rate design and discounting on certain segments of the
pipeline.

     Segment costs and expenses increased $59.9 million, or 6 percent, due
primarily to the higher gas exchange imbalance settlements and reimbursable
costs which are passed through to customers, $13 million higher general and
administrative expenses and $9 million higher depreciation and amortization
related mainly to pipeline expansions. These increases were partially offset by
the effect of a $58.4 million charge in 1998 (included in other expense -- net)
related to certain long-term gas supply contracts entered into in 1982. The
charge represented natural gas costs incurred in prior years that will not be
recoverable from customers. General and administrative expenses increased
primarily from information systems initiatives, higher labor and benefits costs,
a $2.3 million accrual for damages associated with two pipeline ruptures in the
northwest and the $2 million write-off of previously capitalized software
development costs.



     Segment profit increased $86.9 million, or 14 percent, due primarily to the
$45 million net revenue effect of the regulatory and rate case issues discussed
above, the $58.4 million effect of the accrual for costs in 1998 related to
certain long-term gas supply contracts discussed above and $14 million of
revenues from expansion projects and new services. These segment profit
increases were partially offset by $9 million higher depreciation and
amortization and $13 million higher general and administrative expenses.

ENERGY SERVICES

     Energy Marketing & Trading's revenues increased $9.3 million, or 1 percent,
due to a $101.5 million increase in trading revenues partially offset by a $92.2
million decrease in non-trading revenues. The $101.5 million increase in trading
revenues is due primarily to $61 million higher natural gas trading margins,
which reflect $61 million of favorable contract settlements in 1999 and
increased trading volumes and per-unit margins, partially offset by the effect
in 1998 of certain favorable contract settlements and terminations totaling $24
million. In addition, natural gas liquids margins increased $23 million
associated mainly with increased physical trading activities and electric power
trading margins increased $14 million. The electric power trading margin
increase reflects the designation of a southern California electric power
services contract as trading in accordance with EITF 98-10, "Accounting for
Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," which was
adopted first-quarter 1999, the recognition of $7 million of revenue associated
with a 1998 contractual dispute which was settled in 1999 and increased trading
activity. Largely offsetting these electric power trading revenue increases were
lower demand for electricity in southern California in 1999 compared to 1998 due
to cooler summer temperatures in 1999.

     The $92.2 million non-trading revenue decrease is due primarily to $211
million lower electric power services revenues primarily related to the
designation of a southern California electric power services contract as trading
in 1999 (discussed above). Partially offsetting this decrease were retail
natural gas and electric revenues which increased $131 million resulting
primarily from the late 1998 acquisition of Volunteer Energy. Additionally,
natural gas liquids revenues decreased slightly as the effect of reporting
trading revenues on a net basis beginning April 1, 1998, for certain operations
previously reported on a "gross" basis was substantially offset by $111 million
contributed by activity from a petrochemical plant acquired early in 1999.

     Cost of sales associated with non-trading activities decreased $49.3
million, or 13 percent, due primarily to $156 million lower electric power
services costs which reflect the designation of such costs as trading in 1999
(discussed above), partially offset by higher costs for retail natural gas and
electric operations of $120 million. These variances are associated with the
corresponding changes in non-trading revenues discussed above.

     Segment profit increased $69.0 million, to $104 million in 1999, due
primarily to the $61 million higher natural gas trading margins, $34 million
higher natural gas liquids net revenues, a $22.3 million gain on the sale of the
retail natural gas and electric operations in 1999 and the effect in 1998 of $14
million of asset impairments related to the decision to focus the retail natural
gas and electric business from sales to small commercial and residential
customers to large end users. These increases were partially offset by $40
million lower electric power services net revenues, $21 million higher selling,
general and administrative expenses and $8 million higher retail propane
operating expenses. The higher selling, general and administrative expenses
reflect higher compensation levels associated with improved operating
performance, growth in electric power trading operations, the Volunteer Energy
acquisition in late 1998 and increased activities in the areas of human
resources development, investor/media/customer relations and business
development, partially offset by the effect in 1998 of a $17 million credit loss
accrual.

     Energy Marketing & Trading's revenues and costs and expenses for 1999
included $140.5 million and $145.3 million, respectively, from the Volunteer
Energy operations sold in 1999. In addition, Energy Marketing & Trading sold its
retail propane business, Thermogas Company, previously a subsidiary of MAPCO
Inc., to Ferrellgas Partners L.P. on December 17, 1999 (see Note 7). The sale
yielded an after-tax gain of $65.2 million, which is reported as an
extraordinary gain. Retail propane revenues and costs and expenses were $244.1
million and $257.2 million, respectively, for 1999.



     Exploration & Production's revenues increased $50.8 million, or 37 percent,
due primarily to $22 million from increased average natural gas sales prices,
$20 million associated with increases in both company-owned production volumes
and marketing volumes from the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust and royalty
interest owners and $17 million from oil and gas properties acquired in April
1999. Partially offsetting was an $11 million decrease in the recognition of
income previously deferred from a 1997 transaction which transferred certain
nonoperating economic benefits to a third party. Company-owned production has
increased due mainly to a drilling program initiated in the San Juan basin in
1998 and 1999 and the April 1999 acquisition.

     Other expense -- net in 1999 includes a $14.7 million gain from the sale of
certain gas producing properties which contributed $2 million to segment profit
in 1999. Also included in other expense -- net in 1999 is a $7.7 million gain
from the sale of certain other properties.

     Segment profit increased $12.6 million, or 46 percent, due primarily to $22
million of gains from the sales of assets, an $8 million contribution from the
April 1999 acquisition, $4 million higher profits from company-owned production
and $4 million lower dry hole costs. Partially offsetting was $11 million
decreased recognition of deferred income, a $9 million decrease in margins from
the marketing of natural gas and $6 million higher nonproducing leasehold
amortization.

     Midstream Gas & Liquids' revenues increased $158.1 million, or 18 percent,
due primarily to $119 million higher natural gas liquids sales from processing
activities reflecting $62 million from a 46 percent increase in volumes sold and
$57 million from a 29 percent increase in average natural gas liquids sales
prices. The increase in natural gas liquids sales volumes is a result of the
improved liquids market conditions in 1999 and a new plant which became
operational in 1999. In addition, revenues increased due to $17 million from
higher average gathering rates, $16 million higher transportation revenues
associated with increased shipments, the effect of unfavorable adjustments in
1998 of $14 million related to rates placed into effect in 1997 for Midstream's
regulated gathering activities (offset in costs and operating expenses) and $11
million higher natural gas liquids storage revenues following the mid-1999
acquisition of two storage facilities. Partially offsetting these increases were
$20 million lower equity earnings including 1998 and 1999 reclassifications
totaling $10 million for the Discovery pipeline project (offset in capitalized
interest).

     Cost and operating expenses increased $122.2 million, or 22 percent, due
primarily to $58 million higher liquids fuel and replacement gas purchases,
higher operating and maintenance expenses and the 1998 rate adjustments related
to Midstream's regulated gathering activities.

     Segment profit increased $5.1 million, or 2 percent, due primarily to $40
million from higher per-unit natural gas liquids margins and $7 million from the
increase in natural gas liquids volumes sold reflecting more favorable market
conditions. The rapidly rising crude oil prices during 1999 and
flat-to-declining natural gas prices caused natural gas liquids margins to
increase significantly. For each penny improvement in natural gas liquids
margins in 1999, segment profit increased approximately $8 million to $9
million. In addition, transportation, gathering and storage revenues increased
$16 million, $12 million and $11 million, respectively. Largely offsetting were
higher operating and maintenance expenses, $17 million higher general and
administrative expenses, $20 million lower equity earnings, $8 million of costs
associated with cancelled pipeline construction projects and the effect of a
1998 gain of $6 million on settlement of product imbalances.

     Petroleum Services' revenues increased $500.4 million, or 20 percent, due
primarily to $385 million higher refinery revenues (including $99 million higher
intra-segment sales to the travel centers/convenience stores which are
eliminated), $166 million higher travel center/convenience store sales, $74
million higher revenues from growth in fleet management and mobile computer
technology operations, $26 million in revenues from a petrochemical plant
acquired in March 1999 and $23 million in revenues from terminalling operations
acquired in January and August 1999. Partially offsetting these increases was a
$90 million decrease in pipeline construction revenues following substantial
completion of the project. The $385 million increase in refinery revenues
includes a $307 million increase from 23 percent higher average sales prices and
a $73 million increase from 6 percent higher refined product volumes sold. The
increase in refined product volumes sold follows refinery expansions and
improvements in mid-1999 and late-1998 which increased capacity. The $166
million increase in travel center/convenience store sales reflects $79 million
from a


16 percent increase in gasoline and diesel sales volumes, $52 million from an 8
cent per gallon increase in average gasoline and diesel sales prices and $35
million higher merchandise sales. Both the number of travel centers/convenience
stores and average per-store sales in 1999 increased as compared to 1998.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $484 million, or 21 percent, due
primarily to $385 million higher refining costs, $156 million higher travel
center/convenience store cost of sales (including $99 million higher
intra-segment purchases from the refineries which are eliminated), $71 million
higher costs from growth in the fleet management and mobile computer technology
operations, $27 million higher travel center/convenience store operating costs,
$14 million of costs from the petrochemical plant acquired in March 1999 and $13
million higher terminalling costs related primarily to the terminalling
operations acquired in 1999. Partially offsetting these increases were $87
million lower pipeline construction costs related to the project previously
discussed. The $385 million increase in refining costs reflects $303 million
from higher crude supply costs and other related per-unit cost of sales, $59
million associated with increased volumes sold and $23 million higher operating
costs at the refineries. The higher refinery operating costs are a result of
increased maintenance activity and refinery expansions completed in 1999 and
1998. The $156 million increase in travel center/convenience store cost of sales
reflects $71 million from increased gasoline and diesel sales volumes, $56
million from increased average gasoline and diesel purchase prices and $29
million higher merchandise cost of sales reflecting increased volumes.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $23.4 million, or 23
percent, due, in part, to increased media/customer relations activities,
business development and the additional terminals and travel centers in 1999.

     Segment profit increased $18.3 million, or 12 percent, due primarily to the
effects of a $15.5 million accrual in 1998 for potential refunds to
transportation customers following a court ruling requiring such refunds and the
settlement in 1999 of this litigation for $6.5 million less than accrued. In
addition, segment profit increased due to $14 million from increased refined
product volumes sold, $12 million from activities at the petrochemical plant
acquired in March 1999, $10 million from increased terminalling activities
following the 1999 acquisitions and $4 million from increased per unit refinery
margins. Also contributing to increased segment profit were $7 million from
higher gasoline and diesel sales volumes, $7 million higher gross profit from
increased travel center/convenience store merchandise activity, $5 million of
margins on product sales from transportation, $5 million of refinery-related
storage fee revenue and the recovery of $4 million of environmental expenses
previously incurred. Largely offsetting these increases were $27 million and $23
million of increased operating costs at the travel centers/convenience stores
and the refineries, respectively, and $23 million higher selling, general and
administrative expenses.

COMMUNICATIONS

     Network's revenues increased $233.5 million, or 113 percent, due primarily
to $154 million of business growth from data and switched voice services, $45
million increased revenue from dark fiber leases accounted for as sales-type
leases on the newly constructed digital fiber-optic network, $23 million higher
revenue from an Australian telecommunications operation acquired in August 1998
and $16 million higher consulting and outsourcing revenues.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $275.4 million, or 154 percent, due
primarily to $99 million higher off-net capacity costs associated with providing
customer services prior to completion of the new network, $49 million higher
operating and maintenance expenses on the newly completed portions of the
network, $29 million higher construction costs associated with the dark fiber
leases accounted for as sales-type leases, $28 million higher depreciation
expense as portions of the new network were placed into service, $24 million
higher local access connection costs, $20 million higher costs from the
Australian telecommunications operation acquired in August 1998, $17 million
higher costs of consulting and outsourcing services and $5 million of higher
leasing costs for equipment colocation space in data centers.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $88.8 million, or
149 percent, due primarily to costs associated with adding resources and
infrastructure required to increase and serve a growing customer base as more of
the network is installed and lit, including $20 million of costs associated with
the development


of voice services in 1999, and $23 million higher costs from the Australian
telecommunications operation acquired in August 1998.

     Segment loss increased $132.3 million, from a $32.8 million loss in 1998 to
a $165.1 million loss in 1999, due primarily to the $88.8 million increase in
selling, general and administrative expenses, losses experienced from providing
customer services off-net prior to completion of the new network and $28 million
higher depreciation expense, slightly offset by $16 million of profit from dark
fiber leases accounted for as sales-type leases.

     Broadband Media's revenues increased $1.6 million, or 1 percent, while
segment loss decreased $13.1 million, or 31 percent, due primarily to improved
margins and $7 million lower selling, general and administrative expenses. The
lower selling, general and administrative expenses reflect the effects of
facility consolidations.

     Strategic Investments' revenues decreased $25.4 million, or 75 percent, due
primarily to the $15 million effect of the July 1999 sale of the audio- and
video-conferencing and closed-circuit video broadcasting businesses and $12
million higher equity losses from an investment in ATL, a Brazilian
telecommunications business which became operational in January 1999.

     Costs and operating expenses decreased $15.5 million, or 37 percent, and
selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $15.2 million, or 40
percent, due primarily to the effect of the July 1999 sale of the audio- and
video-conferencing and closed-circuit video broadcasting businesses.

     Other expense -- net in 1999 includes a $28.4 million loss relating to the
sales of certain audio- and video-conferencing and closed-circuit video
broadcasting businesses (see Note 5) and $5.5 million of asset impairment
charges relating to management's decision to abandon the wireless remote
monitoring, meter reading equipment and related services business. Other
expense -- net in 1998 includes a $23.2 million write-down related to the
abandonment of a venture involved in the technology and transmission of business
information for news and educational purposes (see Note 5).

     Segment loss decreased $5.9 million, from a $71.3 million loss in 1998 to a
$65.4 million loss in 1999, due primarily to the effect of the $23.2 million
asset write-down in 1998, a $16 million effect of businesses that were
generating losses that have been sold or otherwise exited and $9.4 million of
dividends in 1999 from international investment funds, largely offset by the
$33.9 million of losses and asset impairment charges in 1999 and $12 million
higher equity losses from ATL.

OTHER

     Other revenues increased $46.2 million, or 68 percent, due primarily to $21
million higher Venezuelan gas compression revenues, $26 million of rental income
from Gas Pipeline for office space (eliminated in consolidation) and $6 million
of revenues for operating a Venezuelan crude oil terminal, partially offset by
$10 million higher equity investment losses. The $21 million higher gas
compression revenues reflect the effect of a high pressure unit which became
operational in September 1998, partially offset by the effect of operational
problems experienced in early 1999. The $10 million higher equity investment
losses resulted from increased interest expense experienced by another Brazilian
communications company.

     Segment profit increased $5.9 million, from $2.5 million in 1998 to $8.4
million in 1999, due primarily to a $9 million improvement in Venezuelan gas
compression operations and the effect of $5.6 million of international
investment fund write-downs in 1998, partially offset by $10 million higher
equity investment losses.

CONSOLIDATED

     General Corporate Expenses decreased $19.8 million, or 21 percent, due
primarily to MAPCO merger-related costs of $29 million included in 1998 general
corporate expenses. Interest accrued increased $154.3 million, or 30 percent,
due primarily to the $142 million effect of higher borrowing levels including
Communications' debt issuances and the July 1999 issuance of additional public
debt by Williams. In



addition, average interest rates were slightly higher than in 1998. These
increases were slightly offset by a $26.2 million decrease in interest on rate
refund liabilities including a $10.6 million favorable adjustment related to the
reduction of certain rate refund liabilities in second-quarter 1999. Interest
capitalized increased $39.2 million, or 128 percent, due primarily to increased
capital expenditures for the fiber-optic network and pipeline construction
projects and reclassifications totaling $10 million related to Williams' equity
investment in the Discovery pipeline project (offset in Midstream Gas & Liquids'
segment profit), partially offset by lower capital expenditures for
international investments. Investing income increased $43.9 million due
primarily to higher interest income associated with the investment of proceeds
from Communications' equity and debt offerings and $12 million of dividends in
1999 from international investment funds (including $9.4 million previously
discussed within Communications' segment profit). Other income (expense) -- net
is $6.4 million favorable as compared to 1998 due primarily to 1998 litigation
loss accruals and other settlement adjustments totaling $11 million related to
assets previously sold.

     The $45.5 million, or 39 percent, increase in the provision for income
taxes on continuing operations is the result of higher pre-tax income and a
higher effective income tax rate in 1999. The effective income tax rate in 1999
exceeds the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effects of state income
taxes, losses of foreign entities not deductible for U.S. tax purposes and the
impact of goodwill not deductible for tax purposes related to assets sold during
1999 (see Note 6). The effective income tax rate in 1998 exceeds the federal
statutory rate due primarily to the effects of state income taxes and the
effects of non-deductible costs, including goodwill amortization.

     Loss from discontinued operations for 1999 reflect $16.2 million of
after-tax losses from operations of Communications Solutions. Loss from
discontinued operations in 1998 includes $22.1 million of after-tax losses from
operations of Communications' Solutions and $14.3 million of losses in 1998
related to another business sold in 1996 (see Note 3).

     The $65.2 million 1999 extraordinary gain results from the sale of
Williams' retail propane business (see Note 7). The $4.8 million 1998
extraordinary loss results from the early extinguishment of debt (see Note 7).

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

  Liquidity

     Williams considers its liquidity to come from both internal and external
sources. Certain of those sources are available to Williams (parent) and certain
of its subsidiaries, while others can only be utilized by Communications.
Williams' unrestricted sources of liquidity, which can be utilized by Williams
(parent) and non-Communications subsidiaries without limitation under existing
loan covenants, consist primarily of the following:

     - Available cash-equivalent investments of $854 million at December 31,
       2000, as compared to $494 million at December 31, 1999.

     - $350 million available under Williams' $700 million bank-credit facility
       at December 31, 2000, as compared to $475 million at December 31, 1999
       under the $1 billion bank credit facility (see Note 13).

     - $4 million available under Williams' $1.7 billion commercial paper
       program at December 31, 2000, as compared to $154 million at December 31,
       1999 under a $1.4 billion commercial paper program.

     - Cash generated from operations.

     - Short-term uncommitted bank lines of credit may also be used in managing
       liquidity.

     Williams' sources of liquidity restricted to use by Communications consists
primarily of the following:

     - Available cash-equivalent investments and short-term investments totaling
       $555 million, as compared to $1.9 billion at December 31, 1999. The
       short-term investments include approximately $312 million of marketable
       equity securities classified as available for sale.



     - Communications' $1.05 billion bank-credit facility, under which $525
       million was outstanding at December 31, 2000 and no amounts were
       outstanding at December 31, 1999.

     At December 31, 2000, Williams had a $1.775 billion shelf registration
statement effective with the Securities and Exchange Commission to issue a
variety of debt or equity securities. Subsequent to the issuance of Williams
common stock in January 2001 discussed below, the remaining availability on the
shelf registration is approximately $400 million. In addition, there are other
outstanding registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission for Northwest Pipeline, Texas Gas Transmission and Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line (each a wholly owned subsidiary of Williams). At March 1, 2001,
approximately $450 million of shelf availability remains under these outstanding
registration statements and may be used to issue a variety of debt or equity
securities. Interest rates and market conditions will affect amounts borrowed,
if any, under these arrangements. Williams believes additional financing
arrangements, if required, can be obtained on reasonable terms.

     In fourth-quarter 2000, ATL closed a financing arrangement with a Brazilian
development bank which provided ATL 528 million reais (approximately $270
million at December 31, 2000) in additional local currency funding of which
Communications has guaranteed $100 million.

     Terms of certain borrowing agreements limit transfer of funds to Williams
from its subsidiaries, including Communications as described above. The
restrictions have not impeded, nor are they expected to impede, Williams ability
to meet its cash requirements in the future.

     During 2001, Williams expects to fund capital and investment expenditures,
debt payments and working-capital requirements through (1) cash generated from
operations, (2) the use of the available portion of Williams' $700 million
bank-credit facility, (3) commercial paper, (4) short-term uncommitted bank
lines, (5) private borrowings, (6) sale or disposal of existing businesses
and/or (7) debt or equity public offerings. In addition, Communications capital
and investment expenditures, debt payments and working-capital requirements are
also expected to be funded through (1) the use of the available portion of its
$1.05 billion facility, (2) obtaining additional credit facilities, (3) sale or
disposal of existing businesses or investments and/or (4) issuance of additional
debt or equity securities.

  Operating Activities

     Cash provided by continuing operating activities was: 2000 -- $538 million;
1999 -- $1.7 billion; 1998 -- $946 million. The increases in receivables and
accounts payable of $1,719 million and $1,467 million, respectively, reflect
increased energy commodity prices, primarily power, related to trading and other
activity primarily at Energy Marketing & Trading. The $303 million increase in
inventories reflects increases in the related prices of refined product, natural
gas liquid, natural gas and crude oil inventories at Energy Marketing & Trading.
The increase in deposits and other current assets is due primarily to an
increase in deposits related to trading activities at Energy Marketing &
Trading. The $428 million increase in accrued liabilities is due primarily to
higher accrued payroll, deposits received from customers related to energy
trading activities, accrued interest, income taxes payable and liabilities
associated with the Canadian energy operations purchased in fourth quarter 2000,
partially offset by the payments in 2000 of $95 million for rate refunds to
natural gas customers.

  Financing Activities

     Net cash provided by financing activities was: 2000 -- $3.8 billion;
1999 -- $4.3 billion; 1998 -- $1.9 million. Long-term debt proceeds, net of
principal payments, were $1.8 billion, $2.7 billion and $1.9 billion during
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Notes payable proceeds, net of notes payable
payments were $1.5 billion and $210 million during 2000 and 1999, respectively.
Notes payable payments, net of notes payable proceeds, were $139 million during
1998. The increase in net new borrowings during 2000, 1999 and 1998 reflects
borrowings to fund capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions of
businesses.



     The proceeds from issuance of Williams common stock in 2000, 1999 and 1998
are primarily from exercise of stock options under the plans providing for
common-stock-based awards to employees and to non-employee directors.

     In 2000, Communications issued $1 billion in long-term debt obligations
consisting of $575 million in 11.7 percent notes due 2008 and $425 million in
11.875 percent notes due 2010. In October 1999, Williams Communications Group,
Inc. (WCG) completed an initial public equity offering, private equity offerings
and public debt offerings which yielded total net proceeds of approximately $3.5
billion. The initial public equity offering yielded net proceeds of
approximately $738 million (see Note 16). Additional shares of common stock were
privately sold in concurrent investments by SBC Communications Inc., Intel
Corporation and Telefonos de Mexico for proceeds of $738.5 million. Concurrent
with these equity transactions, WCG issued high-yield public debt of
approximately $2 billion. Proceeds from the 1999 equity and debt transactions
were used to repay Communications' 1999 borrowings under an interim short-term
bank-credit facility and the $1.05 billion bank-credit agreement. The remaining
proceeds from the 1999 transactions and the 2000 debt proceeds were used to fund
2000 Communications' operating losses, continued construction of Communications'
national fiber-optic network and other capital and investment expansion
opportunities.

     During 2000, Williams received net proceeds totaling $547 million from the
sale of a limited liability company member interest to an outside investor (see
Note 14). In addition, WCG received net proceeds of approximately $240.5 million
from the issuance of five million shares of 6.75 percent redeemable cumulative
convertible preferred stock (see Note 14). During 1998, Williams received
proceeds totaling $335 million from the sale of limited partnership and
limited-liability company member minority interests to outside investors (see
Note 14).

     During 1999, Williams received proceeds of $175 million from the sale of
Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities (see Note 15).

     Long-term debt at December 31, 2000 was $10.3 billion, compared with $9.2
billion at December 31, 1999 and $6.4 billion at December 31, 1998. At December
31, 2000 and 1999, $800 million and $404 million, respectively, of current debt
obligations were classified as non-current obligations based on Williams' intent
and ability to refinance on a long-term basis. The 2000 increase in long-term
debt is due primarily to $1 billion in debt issued by Communications in August
2000 and $400 million borrowed under a new three-year term bank credit facility
entered into by Williams in April 2000. The long-term debt to debt-plus-equity
ratio was 63.7 percent at December 31, 2000, compared to 62.3 percent and 59.9
percent at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. If short-term notes payable
and long-term debt due within one year are included in the calculations, these
ratios would be 70.5 percent, 65.9 percent and 64.7, respectively.

     In January, 2001, Williams issued $1.1 billion of senior unsecured debt
securities of which $500 million in proceeds was used to retire temporary
financing obtained in September 2000. The proceeds from the temporary financing
in 2000 were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of
commercial paper. Williams expects to use the remaining proceeds that are
received from this debt offering to fund the energy-related capital program,
repay debt, including a portion of floating rate notes due December 15, 2001,
which were issued in December 2000 (see Note 13), construction of a building and
for other general corporate purposes.

     In January 2001, Williams issued approximately 38 million shares of common
stock in a public offering at $36.125 per share. Net proceeds of $1.33 billion
from the offering will be used primarily to expand Williams' capacity to fund
its energy-related capital program, repay commercial paper and other short-term
debt, construction of a building and for general corporate purposes.

     Williams Energy Partners L.P. (WEP), a wholly owned partnership, owns and
operates a diversified portfolio of energy assets. The partnership is
principally engaged in the storage, transportation and distribution of refined
petroleum products and ammonia. On February 9, 2001, WEP completed an initial
public offering of approximately 4.6 million common units at $21.50 per unit for
net proceeds of approximately $92 million. The initial public offering
represents 40 percent of the units, and Williams retained a 60 percent interest
in the partnership, including its general partner interest.



  Investing Activities

     Net cash used by investing activities was: 2000 -- $4.2 billion;
1999 -- $5.2 billion; and 1998 -- $2.1 billion. Capital expenditures of
Communications, primarily for the construction of the fiber-optic network, were
$3.4 billion in 2000, $1.7 billion in 1999 and $304 million in 1998. Capital
expenditures of Energy Services, primarily to acquire, expand and modernize
gathering and processing facilities, terminals and refineries, were $550 million
in 2000, $1.2 billion in 1999 and $707 million in 1998. Capital expenditures of
Gas Pipeline, primarily to expand and modernize systems, were $512 million in
2000, $360 million in 1999 and $472 million in 1998. Budgeted capital
expenditures and investments for all business units for 2001 are estimated to be
approximately $4 billion, including expanding and enhancing the capacity and
functionality of the fiber-optic network ($2 billion), expansion and
modernization of pipeline systems, gathering and processing facilities,
refineries and international investment activities.

     In October 2000, Williams acquired various energy-related operations in
Canada for approximately $540 million. Included in the purchase were interests
in several natural gas liquids (NGL) extraction and fractionation plants, NGL
transportation pipeline and storage facilities, and a natural gas processing
plant.

     During 1999, Williams purchased a company with a petrochemical plant and
natural gas liquids transportation, storage and other facilities for $163
million in cash. Also during 1999, Williams made various cash investments and
advances totaling $696 million including $265 million to increase its investment
in ATL (a Brazilian telecommunications business), a $75 million equity
investment in and a $75 million loan to AB Mazeikiu Nafta, Lithuania's national
oil company, $78 million in various natural gas and petroleum products pipeline
joint ventures, and other joint ventures and investments. In addition, Williams
made $139 million of investments in the Alliance natural gas pipeline and
processing plant during 1999 of which $93.5 million was financed with a note
payable. In December 1999, Williams sold its retail propane business to
Ferrellgas Partners L.P. (Ferrellgas) for $268.7 million in cash and $175
million in senior common units of Ferrellgas.

     During 1998, Williams made a $100 million advance to and a $150 million
investment in another telecommunications business in Brazil. In addition, during
1998 Williams made an $85 million investment in a Texas refined petroleum
products pipeline joint venture.

  Other Commitments

     Energy Marketing & Trading has entered into certain contracts giving
Williams the right to receive fuel conversion services as well as certain other
services associated with electric generation facilities that are either
currently in operation or are to be constructed at various locations throughout
the continental United States. At December 31, 2000, annual estimated committed
payments under these contracts range from $20 million to $409 million, resulting
in total committed payments over the next 22 years of approximately $7 billion.

     Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and
equipment are approximately $1.9 billion at December 31, 2000.

     Williams has also entered into an agreement giving Williams a 25-year right
to use a portion of a third party's wireless local capacity. Williams will pay a
total of $400 million over four years for this right and will amortize the total
payments over the 25-year usage term. As of December 31, 2000, Williams has paid
approximately $250 million.

  New Accounting Standards

     See Note 1 for a discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," and
SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishment of Liabilities."

  Effects of Inflation

     Williams' cost increases in recent years have benefited from relatively low
inflation rates during that time. Approximately 37 percent of Williams'
property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline, approximately



36 percent is at Energy Services and approximately 22 percent is at
Communications. Approximately 86 percent of Gas Pipeline's property, plant and
equipment has been acquired or constructed since 1995, a period of relatively
low inflation. Gas Pipeline is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to
historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable
under current FERC practices, Williams believes it will be allowed to recover
and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing
assets. Cost-based regulation along with competition and other market factors
may limit the ability to recover such increased costs. Within Energy Services,
operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by specific price changes in
oil and gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude,
refined product, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices are particularly
sensitive to OPEC production levels and/or the market perceptions concerning the
supply and demand balance in the near future. See Market Risk Disclosures on
page 59 for additional information concerning the impact of specific price
changes. Substantially all of the Communications' property, plant and equipment
is for the recent fiber-optic network construction. The activities of
Communications have historically not been significantly affected by the effects
of inflation.

  Environmental

     Williams is a participant in certain environmental activities in various
stages involving assessment studies, cleanup operations and/or remedial
processes. The sites, some of which are not currently owned by Williams (see
Note 20), are being monitored by Williams, other potentially responsible
parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental
authorities in a coordinated effort. In addition, Williams maintains an active
monitoring program for its continued remediation and cleanup of certain sites
connected with its refined products pipeline activities. Williams has both joint
and several liability in some of these activities and sole responsibility in
others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such cleanup activities,
after payments by other parties, are approximately $109 million, all of which is
accrued at December 31, 2000. Williams expects to seek recovery of approximately
$36 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates
and approximately $15 million of accrued costs from states in accordance with
laws permitting reimbursement of certain expenses associated with underground
storage tank containment problems and repairs. Williams will fund these costs
from operations and/or available bank-credit facilities. The actual costs
incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent of contamination
discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or
other governmental authorities, and other factors.

     Williams is subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean
Air Act Amendments of 1990 which require the EPA to issue new regulations. In
September 1998, the EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of
ground-level ozone in certain states. Williams estimates that capital
expenditures necessary to install emission control devices over the next five
years to comply with these new rules will be between $251 million and $271
million. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans
developed by each state to comply with these regulations. In December 1999,
standards promulgated by the EPA for tailpipe emissions and the content of
sulfur in gasoline were announced. Williams estimates that capital expenditures
necessary to bring its two refineries into compliance over the next five years
will be approximately $169 million. The actual costs incurred will depend on the
final implementation plans.

     In July 1999, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line (Transco) received a letter
stating that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), at the request of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, intends to file a civil action against Transco
arising from its waste management practices at Transco's compressor stations and
metering stations in eleven states from Texas to New Jersey. The DOJ stated in
the letter that its complaint will seek civil penalties and injunctive relief
under federal environmental laws. The DOJ and Transco are discussing a
settlement. While no specific amount was proposed, the DOJ stated that any
settlement must include an appropriate civil penalty for the alleged violations.
Transco cannot reasonably estimate the amount of its potential liability, if
any, at this time. However, Transco believes it has substantially addressed
environmental concerns on its system through ongoing voluntary remediation and
management programs.



     Williams Field Services (WFS), an Energy Services subsidiary, received a
Notice of Violation (NOV) from EPA in February 2000. WFS received a
contemporaneous letter from the DOJ indicating that the DOJ will also be
involved in the matter. The NOV alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at a gas
processing plant. WFS, the EPA and the DOJ agreed to settle this matter for a
penalty of $850,000. In the course of investigating this matter, WFS discovered
a similar potential violation at the plant and disclosed it to the EPA and the
DOJ. The parties will discuss whether additional enforcement action is
warranted.



ITEM 7A. MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES

INTEREST RATE RISK

     Williams' interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to its
short-term investments, investment in Ferrellgas Partners L.P. senior common
units, debt portfolio and Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities of Trust.

     Short-term investments, excluding marketable equity securities, consist
primarily of commercial paper at December 31, 2000 and at December 31, 1999,
short-term investments consist primarily of money market instruments, short-term
debt securities, such as commercial paper, asset-backed and corporate bonds, and
a mutual fund investing in short-term debt securities, which are managed by
financial institutions. Williams' investing income is subject to interest rate
risk resulting from potential future fluctuations in interest rates on
comparable investment securities. To mitigate the impact of fluctuations in
interest rates, Williams instructs the managing financial institutions to invest
only in highly liquid instruments with short-term maturity dates. These
investments were purchased with a portion of the proceeds from the
Communications debt offerings in 2000 and 1999 and from Communications' initial
equity offering in October 1999.

     Williams' interest rate risk exposure resulting from its debt portfolio is
influenced by short-term rates, primarily LIBOR-based borrowings from commercial
banks and the issuance of commercial paper, and long-term U.S. Treasury rates.
To mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates, Williams targets to
maintain a significant portion of its debt portfolio in fixed rate debt.
Williams also utilizes interest-rate swaps to change the ratio of its fixed and
variable rate debt portfolio based on management's assessment of future interest
rates, volatility of the yield curve and Williams' ability to access the capital
markets in a timely manner. Williams periodically enters into interest-rate
forward contracts to establish an effective borrowing rate for anticipated
long-term debt issuances. The maturity of Williams' long-term debt portfolio is
partially influenced by the life of its operating assets.

     At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the amount of Williams' fixed and variable
rate debt was at targeted levels. Williams has traditionally maintained an
investment grade credit rating as one aspect of managing its interest rate risk.
In order to fund its 2001 capital expenditure plan, Williams will need to access
various sources of liquidity, which will likely include traditional borrowing
and leasing markets.

     The tables on the following page provide information as of December 31,
2000 and 1999, about Williams' interest rate risk sensitive instruments. For
short-term investments (excluding marketable equity securities), investment in
Ferrellgas Partners L.P. senior common units, notes payable, long-term debt and
Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of Trust, the
table presents principal cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by
expected maturity dates. For interest-rate swaps, the table presents notional
amounts and weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates.
Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be
exchanged under the interest-rate swaps.







- ---------------

(1) LIBOR plus 1.00 percent through 2002, LIBOR plus 1.18 percent for 2003 and
    2004, LIBOR plus 1.33 percent for 2005, LIBOR plus .76 thereafter for 2000
    and LIBOR plus .60 percent through 2002, LIBOR plus .35 percent thereafter
    for 1999.

(2) LIBOR

(3) LIBOR except $250 million notional amount maturing after 2003 is at LIBOR
    less 1.04 percent and $240 million notional amount maturing in 2002 is at
    LIBOR plus .26 percent.



COMMODITY PRICE RISK

     Energy Marketing & Trading has trading operations that incur commodity
price risk as a consequence of providing price-risk management services to
third-party customers. The trading operations have commodity price-risk exposure
associated with the crude oil, natural gas, refined products, natural gas
liquids and electricity energy markets in the United States and the natural gas
markets in Canada. The trading operations enter into a variety of energy and
energy-related contracts which include forward contracts, futures contracts,
option contracts, swap agreements, short- and long-term purchase and sale
commitments and transportation, storage and power tolling contracts. These
energy contracts are valued at fair value and unrealized gains and losses from
changes in fair value are recognized in income. The trading operations are
subject to risk from changes in energy commodity market prices, the portfolio
position of its financial instruments and physical commitments, the liquidity of
the market in which the contract is transacted, changes in interest rates and
credit risk. Energy Marketing & Trading continues to manage market risk on a
portfolio basis subject to the parameters established in its trading policy. A
risk control group, independent of the trading operations, monitors compliance
with the established trading policy and measures the risk associated with the
trading portfolio.

     Energy Marketing & Trading measures the market risk in its trading
portfolio utilizing a value-at-risk methodology to estimate the potential
one-day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of its trading operations.
At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the value at risk for the trading operations was
$90 million and $9 million, respectively. As supplemental quantitative
information to further understand the general risk levels of the trading
portfolio, the average of the actual monthly changes in the fair value of the
trading portfolio for 2000 was an increase of $59 million. These increases are
attributable to increased electric power and natural gas prices, combined with
increased price volatility in the power and gas markets, and an expanded
price-risk management portfolio. Value at risk requires a number of key
assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value
that could be incurred from the trading portfolio. Energy Marketing & Trading's
value-at-risk model includes all financial instruments and physical positions
and commitments in its trading portfolio and assumes that as a result of changes
in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability (97.5 percent in 1999)
that the one-day loss in the fair value of the trading portfolio will not exceed
the value at risk. The value-at-risk model uses historical simulations to
estimate hypothetical movements in future market prices assuming normal market
conditions based upon historical market prices. Value at risk does not consider
that changing our trading portfolio in response to market conditions could
affect market prices and could take longer to execute than the one-day holding
period assumed in the value-at-risk model.

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

     Williams has international investments that could affect the financial
results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the economic conditions in
foreign countries.

     International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $436
million and $501 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The fair
value of these investments is deemed to approximate their carrying amount as the
investments are primarily in non-publicly traded companies for which it is not
practicable to estimate the fair value of these investments. Williams continues
to believe that it can realize the carrying value of these investments
considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these
investments. International cost investments include preferred stock interests in
certain Brazilian ventures totaling $345 million and $370 million at December
31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The Brazilian economy experienced a 7 percent
reduction in the value of the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar from
December 31, 1999 through December 31, 2000, compared to a 33 percent reduction
in the value of the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar from December 31,
1998 through December 31, 1999. An additional 20 percent change in the value of
the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar could result in an approximate $69
million change in the fair value of these investments. This analysis assumes a
direct correlation between the fluctuation of the Brazilian real and the value
of the investments at December 31, 2000. The ultimate duration and severity of
the conditions in Brazil remain uncertain, as does the long-term impact on
interests in the ventures. Of the remaining international investments accounted
for under the cost method at December 31, 2000 and 1999,


approximately 74 percent and 56 percent, respectively, of these international
investments were in Asian countries, and approximately 26 percent and 44
percent, respectively, were in South American countries. If a 20 percent change
occurred in the value of the underlying currencies of these investments against
the U.S. dollar, the fair value of these investments at December 31, 2000, could
change by approximately $18 million assuming a direct correlation between the
currency fluctuation and the value of the investments.

     The net assets of foreign operations which are consolidated are located
primarily in Australia and Canada and approximate 12 percent and 2 percent of
Williams' net assets at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. These foreign
operations, whose functional currency is the local currency, do not have
significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in other
currencies. However, these investments do have the potential to impact Williams'
financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from
the process of re-measuring the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar.
As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies
against the U.S. dollar could have changed stockholders' equity by approximately
$147 million at December 31, 2000.

     In first-quarter 2000, Williams advanced approximately $150 million to
ATL-Algar Telecom Leste S.A. (ATL) denominated in Brazilian reais, which
subjects Williams to foreign currency fluctuations. The value of the advance is
$133 million based on the exchange rate of the Brazilian real to the U.S. dollar
as of December 31, 2000.

     Williams historically has not utilized derivatives or other financial
instruments to hedge the risk associated with the movement in foreign
currencies. However, Williams evaluates currency fluctuations and will consider
the use of derivative financial instruments or employment of other investment
alternatives if cash flows or investment returns so warrant.

EQUITY PRICE RISK

     Equity price risk primarily arises from investments in publicly traded
telecommunications-related companies. These investments are carried at fair
value and totaled approximately $324 million and $288 million at December 31,
2000 and December 31, 1999, respectively. These investments have the potential
to impact Williams' financial position due to movements in the price of these
equity securities. Prior to January 1, 2000, Williams had not utilized
derivatives or other financial instruments to hedge the risk associated with the
movement in the price of these equity securities. However, Williams has entered
into derivative instruments in 2000 which will expire by the first quarter of
2002 and as of December 31, 2000, provided protection to the exposure to changes
in the price of its investments in certain marketable equity securities. These
derivative instruments covered approximately 23 percent of Williams' marketable
securities portfolio at December 31, 2000. It is reasonably possible that the
prices of the equity securities in Williams' marketable equity securities
portfolio could experience a 30 percent increase or decrease in the near term.
Assuming a 30 percent increase or decrease in prices, the value of Williams'
marketable equity securities portfolio at December 31, 2000, which is included
in investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, would increase or decrease by
approximately $97 million and $77 million, respectively.



                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Stockholders of
The Williams Companies, Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The Williams
Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2000. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 14(a). These financial
statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedules based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
The Williams Companies, Inc. at December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedules referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
July 1, 1999, the Company changed its method of accounting for lease
transactions relating to its fiber optic network.

                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Tulsa, Oklahoma
February 28, 2001



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



- ---------------

*  Includes consumer excise taxes of $287.6 million, $229.0 million and $192.9
   million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

                            See accompanying notes.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



                            See accompanying notes.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



                            See accompanying notes.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



                            See accompanying notes.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Description of business

     Operations of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams) are located
principally in the United States and are organized into three industry groups:
Gas Pipeline, Energy Services and Communications.

     Gas Pipeline is comprised of five interstate natural gas pipelines located
throughout the majority of the United States as well as investments in North
American natural gas pipeline-related companies. The five Gas Pipeline operating
segments have been aggregated for reporting purposes and include Williams Gas
Pipelines Central, Kern River Gas Transmission, Northwest Pipeline, Texas Gas
Transmission and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line.

     Energy Services includes four operating segments: Energy Marketing &
Trading, Exploration & Production, Midstream Gas & Liquids and Petroleum
Services. Energy Marketing & Trading offers price-risk management services and
buys, sells and arranges for transportation/transmission of energy
commodities -- including natural gas and gas liquids, crude oil and refined
products, and electricity -- to local distribution companies and large
industrial and commercial customers in North America. Exploration & Production
includes hydrocarbon exploration, production and marketing activities primarily
in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions. Midstream Gas & Liquids is
comprised of natural gas gathering and processing facilities in the Rocky
Mountain, midwest and Gulf Coast regions, natural gas liquids pipelines in the
Rocky Mountain, southwest, midwest and Gulf Coast regions and an anhydrous
ammonia pipeline in the midwest. During 2000, Midstream Gas & Liquids acquired
interests in several natural gas liquids extraction and fractionation plants,
natural gas liquids pipeline and storage facilities, and a natural gas
processing plant which are all located in Canada. Petroleum Services includes
petroleum refining and marketing in Alaska and the southeast, a petroleum
products pipeline and ethanol production and marketing operations in the midwest
region.

     Communications consists of three operating segments: Network, Broadband
Media and Strategic Investments. Network includes fiber-optic construction,
transmission and management services throughout North America, fiber-optic
construction and transmission services in Australia and investments in domestic
communications companies. Broadband Media includes operations principally
located in the United States offering video, advertising distribution and other
multimedia transmission services via terrestrial and satellite links for the
broadcast industry as well as investments in domestic broadband media companies.
Strategic Investments includes certain other investments in domestic
communications companies and investments in foreign communications companies
located in Brazil and Chile.

  Basis of presentation

     In January 2001, Williams' board of directors authorized a plan for its
management to divest the operations that previously comprised the Solutions
segment which provided professional communications services and sold and
installed communications equipment. Solutions has been accounted for as
discontinued operations, and accordingly, the accompanying consolidated
financial statements and notes have been restated to reflect the results of
operations, net assets and cash flows of Solutions as discontinued operations.
Unless indicated otherwise, the information in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements relates to the continuing operations of Williams (see Note
3).

     Effective February 2001, management of certain operations previously
conducted by Energy Marketing & Trading was transferred to Petroleum Services.
These operations included the procurement of crude oil and marketing of refined
products produced from the Memphis refinery, for which prior year segment
information has been restated to reflect the transfer. Additionally, the refined
product sales activities surrounding certain terminals located throughout the
United States were transferred. This sales activity was previously included in
the trading portfolio of Energy Marketing & Trading and was therefore reported
net of related cost of sales. Following the transfer, these sales will be
reported on a "gross" basis.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Consolidated Statement of Income presentation relating primarily to the
natural gas liquids marketing activities of former MAPCO Inc. (MAPCO) operations
(see Note 2), reported within Energy Marketing & Trading, was changed effective
April 1, 1998 and on a prospective basis, these revenues were reflected net of
the related costs to purchase such items. Activity prior to this date is
reflected on a "gross" basis in Energy Marketing & Trading's segment results and
in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Concurrent with completing the
combination of such activities with the energy risk trading operations of Energy
Marketing & Trading, the related contract rights and obligations of certain of
these operations were recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value
consistent with Energy Marketing & Trading's accounting policy.

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
year classifications.

  Principles of consolidation

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Williams, its
majority-owned subsidiaries, and a subsidiary that Williams controls but owns
less than 50 percent of the voting common stock. Companies in which Williams and
its subsidiaries own 20 percent to 50 percent of the voting common stock, or
otherwise exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies
of the company, are accounted for under the equity method.

  Use of estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from
those estimates.

  Cash and cash equivalents

     Cash and cash equivalents include demand and time deposits, certificates of
deposit and other marketable securities with maturities of three months or less
when acquired. Certain items which meet the definition of cash equivalents, but
are part of a larger pool of investments managed by financial institutions, are
included in short-term investments.

  Inventory valuation

     Inventories are stated at cost, which is not in excess of market, except
for certain assets held for energy trading activities by Energy Marketing &
Trading, which are primarily stated at fair value. The cost of inventories is
primarily determined using the average-cost method or market, if lower, except
for certain natural gas inventories held by Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and
general merchandise inventories held by Petroleum Services, which are determined
using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method.

  Property, plant and equipment

     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is provided
primarily on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. Gains or
losses from the ordinary sale or retirement of property, plant and equipment for
regulated pipelines are credited or charged to accumulated depreciation; other
gains or losses are recorded in net income.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Goodwill and other intangible assets

     Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over fair value of assets of
businesses acquired, is amortized on a straight-line basis over periods from 15
to 25 years. Other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods from three to 20 years.

  Treasury stock

     Treasury stock purchases are accounted for under the cost method whereby
the entire cost of the acquired stock is recorded as treasury stock. Gains and
losses on the subsequent reissuance of shares are credited or charged to capital
in excess of par value using the average-cost method.

  Gas Pipeline revenues

     Revenues for sales of products are recognized in the period of delivery and
revenues from the transportation of gas are recognized based on contractual
terms and the related transportation volumes. Gas Pipeline is subject to Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulations and, accordingly, certain
revenues collected may be subject to possible refunds upon final orders in
pending rate cases. Gas Pipeline records rate refund liabilities considering Gas
Pipeline and other third party regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and
estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk weighted, as well as collection
and other risks.

  Energy Services revenues

     Revenues generally are recorded when services have been performed or
products have been delivered. A portion of Petroleum Services is subject to FERC
regulations and, accordingly, the method of recording these revenues is
consistent with Gas Pipeline's method discussed above. Energy Marketing &
Trading's activities are primarily accounted for at fair value as described in
Energy trading activities below.

  Communications revenues

     For Network and Broadband Media, transmission and management service
revenues are recognized monthly as the services are provided. Amounts billed in
advance of the service month are recorded as deferred revenue.

     Network uses lease accounting to record revenues related to cash received
for the right to use portions of its fiber-optic network. The lease transactions
are evaluated for sales-type lease accounting which results in certain lease
transactions being accounted for as sales upon completion of the construction of
the respective network segments and upon acceptance of the fiber by the
purchaser. Transactions that do not meet the criteria for a sales-type lease are
accounted for as an operating lease, and revenue is recorded over the term of
the lease. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Interpretation No. 43, "Real Estate Sales, an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 66," issued in June 1999, lease transactions entered into after June 30,
1999, are accounted for as operating leases unless title to the fibers under
lease transfers to the lessee. The effect of this interpretation on 2000 and
1999 results was to decrease revenues by $189.9 million and $11.0 million,
respectively, and decrease net income by $45.2 million and $3.8 million,
respectively.

  Energy trading activities

     Energy Marketing & Trading has trading operations that enter into energy
contracts to provide price-risk management services to its third-party
customers. Energy contracts include forward contracts, futures contracts, option
contracts, swap agreements, commodity inventories and short- and long-term
purchase and sale commitments which involve physical delivery of an energy
commodity and energy-related contracts, including transportation, storage and
power tolling contracts, utilized for trading activities. These energy

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

contracts are valued at fair value and, with the exception of certain commodity
inventories, are recorded in current and non-current energy trading assets and
energy trading liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The net change in
fair value representing unrealized gains and losses is recognized in income
currently and is recorded as revenues in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Fair value, which is subject to change in the near term, reflects management's
estimates using valuation techniques that reflect the best information available
under the circumstances. This information includes various factors such as
quoted market prices, estimates of market prices in the absence of quoted market
prices, contractual volumes, estimated volumes under option and other
arrangements that result in varying volumes, other contract terms, liquidity of
the market in which the contract is transacted, credit considerations, time
value and volatility factors underlying the positions. These values reflect the
appropriate adjustments for uncertainty regarding the company's ability to
liquidate the position considering market factors applicable at the date of such
valuation. Judgement is required in interpreting market factors, and the use of
alternative market assumptions or valuation methodologies may affect
management's estimate of fair value. Energy Marketing & Trading reports its
trading operations' physical sales transactions net of the related purchase
costs, consistent with fair value accounting for such trading activities.

  Energy hedging activities

     Williams also enters into energy derivative financial instruments and
derivative commodity instruments (primarily futures contracts, option contracts
and swap agreements) to hedge against market price fluctuations of certain
commodity inventories and sales and purchase commitments. Unrealized and
realized gains and losses on these hedge contracts are deferred and recognized
in income in the same manner as the hedged item. These contracts are initially
and regularly evaluated to determine that there is a high correlation between
changes in the fair value of the hedge contract and fair value of the hedged
item. In instances where the anticipated correlation of price movements does not
occur, hedge accounting is terminated and future changes in the value of the
instruments are recognized as gains or losses. If the hedged item of the
underlying transaction is sold or settled, the instrument is recognized into
income.

  Impairment of long-lived assets

     Williams evaluates the long-lived assets, including related intangibles, of
identifiable business activities for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate, in management's judgement, that the carrying value of
such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment
has occurred is based on management's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
attributable to the assets as compared to the carrying value of the assets. If
an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is
determined by estimating the fair value for the assets and recording a provision
for loss if the carrying value is greater than fair value.

     For assets identified to be disposed of in the future, the carrying value
of these assets is compared to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell to
determine if an impairment is required. Until the assets are disposed of, an
estimate of the fair value is redetermined when related events or circumstances
change.

  Interest-rate derivatives

     Williams enters into interest-rate swap agreements to modify the interest
characteristics of its long-term debt. These agreements are designated with all
or a portion of the principal balance and term of specific debt obligations.
These agreements involve the exchange of amounts based on a fixed interest rate
for amounts based on variable interest rates without an exchange of the notional
amount upon which the payments are based. The difference to be paid or received
is accrued and recognized as an adjustment of interest accrued. Gains and losses
from terminations of interest-rate swap agreements are deferred and amortized as
an adjustment of the interest expense on the outstanding debt over the remaining
original term of the terminated


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

swap agreement. In the event the designated debt is extinguished, gains and
losses from terminations of interest-rate swap agreements are recognized in
income.

     Kern River Gas Transmission specifically has interest-rate swap agreements
that are not designated with long-term debt that are recorded in other
liabilities at market value. Changes in market value are recorded as adjustments
to a regulatory asset which is expected to be recovered in transportation rates.

  Capitalization of interest

     Williams capitalizes interest on major projects during construction.
Interest is capitalized on borrowed funds and, where regulation by the FERC
exists, on internally generated funds. The rates used by regulated companies are
calculated in accordance with FERC rules. Rates used by unregulated companies
are based on the average interest rate on related debt. Interest capitalized on
internally generated funds, as permitted by FERC rules, is included in
non-operating other income (expense) -- net.

  Employee stock-based awards

     Employee stock-based awards are accounted for under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and
related interpretations. Fixed-plan common stock options generally do not result
in compensation expense because the exercise price of the stock options equals
the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.

  Income taxes

     Williams includes the operations of its subsidiaries in its consolidated
tax return. Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method and
are provided on all temporary differences between the financial basis and the
tax basis of Williams' assets and liabilities.

  Earnings per share

     Basic earnings per share are based on the sum of the average number of
common shares outstanding and issuable restricted and deferred shares. Diluted
earnings per share include any dilutive effect of stock options and, for
applicable periods presented, convertible preferred stock.

  Foreign currency translation

     The functional currency of Williams is the U.S. dollar. The functional
currency of certain of Williams' foreign operations is the local currency for
the applicable foreign subsidiary and equity method investee. These foreign
currencies include the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar and
Lithuanian lita. Assets and liabilities of certain foreign subsidiaries and
equity investees are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable
reporting date, and the combined statements of operations and Williams' share of
the results of operations of its equity affiliates are translated at the average
exchange rates in effect during the applicable period. The resulting cumulative
translation adjustment is recorded as a separate component of other
comprehensive income.

     Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency
are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise.
Subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transactions gains and losses
which are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

  Issuance of subsidiary common stock

     Sales of stock by a subsidiary are accounted for as capital transactions.
No gain or loss is recognized on these transactions.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Recent accounting standards

     The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 140,
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments
of Liabilities." The Statement provides guidance for determining whether a
transfer of financial assets should be accounted for as a sale or a secured
borrowing, and whether a liability has been extinguished. The Statement is
effective for recognition and reclassification of collateral and for disclosures
which relate to securitization transactions and collateral for fiscal years
ending after December 15, 2000. The Statement will become effective for
transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishments of liabilities
occurring after March 31, 2001. The initial application of SFAS No. 140 will not
have a material impact to Williams' results of operations and financial
position.

     The FASB issued Interpretation No. 44, "Accounting for Certain Transactions
Involving Stock Compensation." This interpretation modified the practice of
accounting for certain stock award agreements and was generally effective
beginning July 1, 2000. The initial impact of this interpretation on Williams'
results of operations and financial position was not material.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities." This was followed in June 2000 by the
issuance of SFAS No. 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and
Certain Hedging Activities," which amends SFAS No. 133. SFAS No. 133 and 138
establish accounting and reporting standards for derivative financial
instruments. The standards require that all derivative financial instruments be
recorded on the balance sheet at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of
derivatives will be recorded each period in earnings if the derivative is not a
hedge. If a derivative is a hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative
will either be recognized in earnings along with the change in the fair value of
the hedged asset, liability or firm commitment also recognized in earnings, or
recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in
earnings. For a derivative recognized in other comprehensive income, the
ineffective portion of the derivative's change in fair value will be recognized
immediately in earnings. Williams adopted these standards effective January 1,
2001. The January 1, 2001, cumulative effect of the accounting change associated
with the initial adoption of SFAS No. 133 is not material to the results of
operations, but the initial application will result in a reduction of
first-quarter 2001 other comprehensive income of approximately $94 million (net
of income tax benefits of $58 million).

     In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements." Among other things, SAB No. 101 clarifies certain conditions
regarding the culmination of an earnings process and customer acceptance
requirements in order to recognize revenue. The initial impact of SAB No. 101 on
Williams' results of continued operations and financial position was not
material.

NOTE 2. ACQUISITION

     On March 28, 1998, Williams completed the acquisition of MAPCO by
exchanging 1.665 shares of Williams common stock for each outstanding share of
MAPCO common stock. In addition, outstanding MAPCO employee stock options were
converted into 5.7 million shares of Williams common stock. Upon completion,
98.8 million shares of Williams common stock valued at $3.1 billion, based on
the closing price of Williams common stock on March 27, 1998, were issued. Also
in connection with the merger, 8.4 million shares of MAPCO $1 par value common
stock previously held in treasury were retired. These shares had a carrying
value of $253.8 million. The merger constituted a tax-free reorganization and
has been accounted for as a pooling of interests.

     In connection with the merger, Williams recognized approximately $80
million in merger-related costs in 1998, comprised primarily of outside
professional fees and early retirement and severance costs. Approximately $51
million of these merger-related costs are included in other expense -- net as a
component of operating income within Energy Services for 1998, and approximately
$29 million, unrelated to segments, is


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

included in general corporate expenses. In addition, during 1997, payments of
$32.6 million were made for non-compete agreements. These costs were amortized
over one to three years from the merger completion date and are included within
Energy Services operating income.

NOTE 3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

  Solutions

     On January 25, 2001, Williams' board of directors authorized a plan for its
management to divest the operations that previously comprised the Solutions
segment. On January 29, 2001, Williams signed an agreement to sell the domestic
and Mexican operations of Solutions to Platinum Equity, LLC. This sale is
expected to close by the end of first-quarter 2001. Williams plans to divest its
remaining Canadian Solutions operations in 2001.

  Other

     Williams' 1998 loss from discontinued operations related to a business sold
in 1996 and included cost accruals for contractual obligations related to
financial performance of the assets of the business and an income tax adjustment
to the loss on the assets sold.

     Summarized results of discontinued operations for years ended December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998, are as follows:



     Loss from discontinued operations excludes certain of Communications shared
services costs that were previously allocated to Solutions of $25.6 million,
$15.7 million and $6.9 million for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. These
costs have been reallocated to the remaining Communications segments (see Note
23).

     Prior to January 1, 2000, Williams' revenue recognition policy on
Solutions' new systems sales and upgrades had been to recognize revenues under
the percentage-of-completion method. A portion of the

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

revenues on the contracts was initially recognized upon delivery of equipment
with the remaining revenues under the contract being recognized over the
installation period based on the relationship of incurred labor to total
estimated labor. In light of the new guidance issued in SAB No. 101, effective
January 1, 2000, Williams changed its method of accounting for new systems sales
and upgrades from the percentage-of-completion method to the completed-contract
method. The provisions of SAB No. 101 permit Williams to treat this change in
accounting principle as a cumulative effect adjustment consistent with the rules
issued under APB No. 20. The cumulative effect of the accounting change resulted
in a charge to the 2000 loss on discontinued operations of $21.6 million (net of
income tax benefits of $14.9 million and minority interest of $21 million).

     Net assets of discontinued operations as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, are
as follows:




                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 4. INVESTING ACTIVITIES

     Investments at December 31, 2000 and 1999, are as follows:



  Short-term investments excluding marketable equity securities

     Maturities of these short-term investments are primarily one year or less
with the exception of the mutual funds which do not have a maturity. These
short-term investments are classified as available-for-sale. The carrying
amounts of these investments are reported at fair value, which approximates
cost, with net unrealized appreciation or depreciation reported as a component
of other comprehensive income.

  Marketable equity securities

     Marketable equity securities are classified as short-term or long-term
based on management's plans for holding or disposing of these investments.
Additionally, these investments are classified as available-for-sale. The
carrying amount of these investments is reported at fair value with net
unrealized appreciation or depreciation reported as a component of other
comprehensive income. The aggregate cost of these investments was $195.6 million
and $57.7 million as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Gross
unrealized gains


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

and losses were $179.4 million and $50.8 million as of December 31, 2000,
respectively. Gross unrealized gains were $230.4 million as of December 31,
1999, as the carrying amount exceeded cost for each marketable equity security
investment. None of the gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2000, were
considered by management to be other than temporary.

     Williams has entered into cashless collar derivative instruments in 2000
which will expire by first-quarter 2002. As of December 31, 2000, these
derivative instruments were accounted for as hedges of Williams' exposure to
changes in the price of its investments in certain marketable equity securities.
Changes in the fair value of the hedged marketable equity securities and the
impact of the associated derivative instruments are reflected in accumulated
other comprehensive income. The derivative instruments impact realized gains or
losses from the sale of the hedged marketable equity security. Effective January
1, 2001, the cashless collar does not qualify as a hedge under SFAS No. 133 as
amended. Williams received cash proceeds of $85.1 million from the early
termination of certain derivative instruments treated as hedges of certain
marketable equity securities in 2000. The cash proceeds were recorded as a
reduction in the basis of the underlying marketable equity security.

     Williams sold portions of its investment in certain marketable equity
securities for aggregate gains and losses of $109.1 million and $14.6 million,
respectively, in 2000. In addition, Williams recognized a gain during 2000 of
$214.7 million from the conversion of Williams' ownership of common stock of
Concentric Network Corporation into shares of common stock of XO Communications,
Inc. pursuant to a merger of those companies completed in June 2000.

     In first quarter 2001, Williams liquidated a portion of its marketable
equity securities portfolio, yielding proceeds of $25.4 million and a gain of
$24.4 million. As of February 28, 2001, the value of Williams' marketable equity
securities portfolio has depreciated approximately $90 million since December
31, 2000.

  Equity, cost-basis investments, advances to affiliates and other

     In 2000, Williams recognized a loss of $34.5 million related to a
write-down of certain cost-basis and equity investments resulting from
management's estimate of the permanent decline in the value of these
investments.

     Certain investments accounted for under the equity basis are publicly
traded. At December 31, 2000, these investments had a carrying value of $76.1
million and a quoted market value of $178.4 million.

     Earnings and losses related to equity investments are included in revenues.
Dividends and distributions received from companies carried on the equity basis
were $32 million, $14 million and $16 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

     The Ferrellgas Partners L.P. senior common units are non-voting and mature
in 2002 and bear a fixed yield of 10 percent. The carrying amount of this
investment is reported at fair value, which approximates cost at December 31,
2000 and 1999.

     In a series of transactions in first-quarter 2000, Williams sold a portion
of its investment in ATL-Algar Telecom Leste S.A. (ATL) for approximately $168
million in cash to an entity jointly owned by SBC Communications, Inc. (SBC) and
Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. This investment has a carrying value of $30
million. Williams recognized a gain on the sale of $16.5 million and deferred a
gain of approximately $121 million associated with $150 million of the proceeds,
which were subsequently advanced to ATL. As of December 31, 2000, Williams owns
66 percent of the preferred shares and 19 percent of the common stock of ATL. At
December 31, 2000, Williams' interest in ATL was pledged as collateral for a
U.S. dollar denominated $521 million loan from Ericsson Project Finance AB to
ATL.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In fourth-quarter 2000, ATL closed a financing arrangement with a Brazilian
development bank which provided ATL 528 million reais (approximately $270
million at December 31, 2000) in additional local currency funding of which
Williams has guaranteed $100 million.

  Investing income

     Investing income for 2000 is comprised of interest income, gains (losses)
from the sale of marketable securities and the $214.7 million gain discussed
previously. Investing income for 1999 and 1998 is comprised primarily of
interest income.

NOTE 5. ASSET SALES, IMPAIRMENTS AND OTHER ACCRUALS

     Included in other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Energy Marketing & Trading's segment profit for 2000 are guarantee loss accruals
and impairments of $47.5 million. The charges result from the decision to
discontinue mezzanine lending services, and the accruals represent the estimated
liability associated with guarantees of third-party lending activities.

     Included in other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Energy Marketing & Trading's segment profit for 1999 is a $22.3 million gain
related to the sale of certain of its retail gas and electric operations.

     Included in other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Strategic Investments' segment loss for 1999 is a pre-tax loss totaling $28.4
million, related to management's second-quarter 1999 decision and commitment to
sell certain network application businesses. The $28.4 million loss consists of
a $24.5 million impairment of the assets to fair value, based on the net sales
proceeds of $50 million, and $3.9 million in exit costs consisting of
contractual obligations related to the sales of these businesses. These
transactions resulted in an increase in the income tax provision of
approximately $7.9 million, which reflects the impact of goodwill not deductible
for tax purposes.

     Included in 1998 other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Strategic Investments' segment loss is a $23.2 million loss related to a venture
involved in the technology and transmission of business information for news and
educational purposes. The loss occurred as a result of Williams' re-evaluation
and decision to exit the venture, as Williams decided against making further
investments in the venture. Williams abandoned its entire ownership interest in
the venture during fourth-quarter 1998. The loss primarily consists of $17
million from the impairment of the total carrying amount of the investment and
$5 million from recognition of contractual obligations that continued after the
abandonment. Williams' share of losses from the venture is not significant to
consolidated net income for any periods presented.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 6. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

     The provision (benefit) for income taxes from continuing operations
includes:



     Reconciliations from the provision for income taxes from continuing
operations at the federal statutory rate to the provision for income taxes are
as follows:




                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Significant components of deferred tax liabilities and assets as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999, are as follows:



     Cash payments for income taxes (net of refunds) were $112 million in 2000.
In 1999, cash refunds exceeded cash payments resulting in a net refund of $387
million. Federal tax refunds received in 1999 are reflected as current tax
benefits with offsetting deferred tax provisions attributable to temporary
differences between the book and tax basis of certain assets. Cash payments for
income taxes (net of refunds) were $29 million in 1998.

NOTE 7. EXTRAORDINARY GAIN (LOSS)

     On December 17, 1999, Williams sold its retail propane business, Thermogas
L.L.C. (Thermogas), previously a subsidiary of MAPCO, to Ferrellgas Partners
L.P. (Ferrellgas) for $443.7 million, including $175 million in senior common
units of Ferrellgas. The sale resulted from an unsolicited offer from Ferrellgas
and yielded an after-tax gain of $65.2 million (net of a $47.9 million provision
for income taxes), which is reported as an extraordinary gain. The results of
operations from this business are not significant to consolidated net income for
any periods presented. Thermogas operations for 1999 and 1998 are reported
within the Energy Marketing & Trading segment.

     During 1998, Williams paid $54.4 million to redeem higher interest rate
debt resulting in a $4.8 million net loss (net of a $2.6 million benefit for
income taxes).


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8. EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic and diluted earnings per common share are computed for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, as follows:



     Approximately 7.2 million, 6.2 million and 5 million options to purchase
shares of common stock with weighted-average exercise prices of $43.11, $38.56
and $32.20, respectively, were outstanding on December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively, but have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings
per share. Inclusion of these shares would have been antidilutive, as the
exercise prices of the options exceeded the average market prices of the common
shares for the respective years.

     Additionally for 1999 and 1998, approximately 5.4 million and 9.6 million
shares, respectively, related to the assumed conversion of the $3.50 convertible
preferred stock, have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per
share. Inclusion of these shares would be antidilutive.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan
assets for pension benefits and other postretirement benefits for the years
indicated. It also presents a reconciliation of the funded status of these
benefits to the amount recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December
31 of each year indicated.




                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Net pension and other postretirement benefit expense consists of the
following:





     The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for the pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of plan assets were $120.5 million, $97.9 million and $67.6 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 2000.

     The following are the weighted-average assumptions utilized as of December
31 of the year indicated:



     The annual assumed rate of increase in the health care cost trend rate for
2001 is 10 percent and systematically decreasing to 5 percent by 2008.

     The various nonpension postretirement benefit plans which Williams sponsors
provide for retiree contributions and contain other cost-sharing features such
as deductibles and coinsurance. The accounting for


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

these plans anticipates future cost-sharing changes to the written plans that
are consistent with Williams' expressed intent to increase the retiree
contribution rate generally in line with health care cost increases.

     The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the
amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost
trend rates would have the following effects:



     The amount of postretirement benefit costs deferred as a regulatory asset
at December 31, 2000 and 1999, is $84 million and $91 million, respectively, and
is expected to be recovered through rates over approximately 14 years.

     Williams maintains various defined-contribution plans. Williams recognized
costs of $38 million in 2000, $34 million in 1999 and $30 million in 1998 for
these plans.

NOTE 10. INVENTORIES

     Inventories at December 31, 2000 and 1999, are as follows:



     As of December 31, 2000 and 1999, approximately 54 percent and 32 percent
of inventories, respectively, were stated at fair value. Inventories, primarily
related to energy trading activities, stated at fair value at December 31, 2000
and 1999, included refined products of $195.1 million and $102.9 million,
respectively; natural gas in underground storage of $125.8 million and $35.9
million, respectively; and natural gas liquids of $124.4 million and $29.4
million, respectively. Inventories determined using the LIFO cost method were
approximately 3 percent and 11 percent of inventories at December 31, 2000 and
1999, respectively. The remaining inventories were primarily determined using
the average-cost method.

     If inventories valued on the LIFO cost method at December 31, 2000 and
1999, were valued at current replacement cost, the amounts would increase in
both years by approximately $14 million.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2000 and 1999, is as follows:



     Depreciation expense was $812.2 million, $658.7 million and $579.5 million,
respectively, in 2000, 1999 and 1998.

     Included in gross property, plant and equipment for 2000 is approximately
$3.3 billion of construction in progress, primarily communications network,
which is not yet subject to depreciation. Construction in progress included in
1999 was $2.3 billion.

     Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and
equipment are approximately $1.9 billion at December 31, 2000.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 12. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     Under Williams' cash-management system, certain subsidiaries' cash accounts
reflect credit balances to the extent checks written have not been presented for
payment. The amounts of these credit balances included in accounts payable are
$209 million at December 31, 2000, and $186 million at December 31, 1999.

     Accrued liabilities at December 31, 2000 and 1999, are as follows:



NOTE 13. DEBT, LEASES AND BANKING ARRANGEMENTS

  Notes payable

     During 2000, Williams' commercial paper program, backed by a short-term
credit facility, was increased from $1.4 billion to $1.7 billion. At December
31, 2000 and 1999, $1.7 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of commercial
paper was outstanding under the respective programs. In addition, Williams has
entered into various other short-term credit agreements with amounts outstanding
totaling $389 million and $143 million at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively. The weighted-average interest rate on all short-term borrowings at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, was 7.23 percent and 6.37 percent, respectively.

     In December 2000, Williams entered into a $600 million debt obligation with
Lehman Brothers Inc., which matures in December 2001. The interest rate varies
based on LIBOR plus .75 percent with an interest rate of 7.27 percent at
December 31, 2000. In January 2001, $300 million of the obligation was repaid
with proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt obligations and, as such, $300
million is classified as long-term as discussed below.

     In September 2000, Williams entered into a $500 million debt obligation
with a 10-year and four-month maturity. During the initial four months, the
interest rate varied based on LIBOR plus .40 percent with an interest rate of
7.17 percent at December 31, 2000. In January 2001, this debt obligation was
replaced with long-term debt obligations and, as such, is classified as
long-term as discussed below.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Long-term debt

     Long-term debt at December 31, 2000 and 1999, is as follows:



- ---------------

 *  At December 31, 2000.

(1) $200 million, 7.08% debentures, payable 2026, are subject to redemption at
    par at the option of the debtholder in 2001.

(2) $240 million, 6.125% notes, payable 2012, are subject to redemption at par
    at the option of the debtholder in 2002.

     For financial statement reporting purposes at December 31, 2000, $800
million in obligations which would have otherwise been classified as current
notes payable have been classified as non-current based on Williams' intent and
ability to refinance on a long-term basis. Proceeds from Williams' issuance in
January 2001 of $700 million of 7.5 percent debentures due 2031 and $400 million
of 6.75 percent Putable Asset Term Securities, putable/callable in 2006, were
sufficient to complete these refinancings.

     Williams' communications business, Williams Communications Group, Inc.
(WCG), has a $1.05 billion long-term credit agreement consisting of a $525
million term loan facility and a $525 million revolving credit facility. Terms
of the credit agreement contain restrictive covenants limiting the transfer of
funds to Williams (Parent), including the payment of dividends and repayment of
intercompany borrowings by WCG to Williams (Parent). At December 31, 2000, $525
million was outstanding under the term loan portion of the facility at an
interest rate of 9.02 percent. Interest rates vary with current market
conditions.

     During 2000, Williams replaced its $1 billion revolving credit agreement
with a $700 million revolving credit agreement. Under the terms of the new
credit agreement, Northwest Pipeline, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and Texas
Gas Transmission have access to various amounts of the facility, while Williams
(Parent) has access to all unborrowed amounts. Terms of the agreement include
financial covenants based on Williams' financial position, exclusive of WCG, and
prohibit the transfer of funds from Williams to WCG. At December 31, 2000, $350
million was outstanding under the revolving credit agreement. Interest rates
vary with current market conditions.

     In January 2000, Williams issued $500 million of adjustable rate notes due
2001 at an initial interest rate of approximately 6.5 percent. In April 2000,
Williams entered into a $400 million three-year term loan agreement which was
fully utilized at December 31, 2000. Interest rates are based on LIBOR plus one
percent.

     In August 2000, WCG issued $1 billion in debt obligations consisting of
$575 million in 11.7 percent notes due 2008 and $425 million in 11.875 percent
notes due 2010.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     During 2000, Williams terminated certain interest-rate swaps with a
notional value of approximately $1.2 billion. These swaps were utilized to
convert certain fixed-rate debt obligations to variable-rate obligations.
Williams paid approximately $9 million to terminate the swaps. The $9 million
was deferred and will be amortized as an adjustment of interest expense on the
outstanding debt over the remaining original term of the terminated swap
agreements.

     Terms of certain subsidiaries' borrowing arrangements with lenders limit
the transfer of funds to Williams (Parent). At December 31, 2000, approximately
$2.9 billion of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries was restricted. In
addition, certain equity method investees' borrowing arrangements and foreign
government regulations limit the amount of dividends or distributions to
Williams. Restricted net assets of equity method investees was approximately
$353 million at December 31, 2000.

     Aggregate minimum maturities and sinking-fund requirements, considering the
reclassification of current obligations as previously described, for each of the
next five years are as follows:



     Cash payments for interest (net of amounts capitalized) are as follows:
2000 -- $717 million, 1999 -- $503 million; and 1998 -- $414 million.

  Leases

     Future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable operating leases as of
December 31, 2000, are payable as follows:



     Total rent expense was $484 million in 2000, $340 million in 1999 and $229
million in 1998. Included in this amount is total capacity expense incurred from
leasing from a third party's network (off-network capacity expense) of $332
million in 2000, $201 million in 1999, and $111 million in 1998.

     During 2000, Williams entered into operating lease agreements covering
certain Williams travel center stores, offshore oil and gas pipelines and an
onshore gas processing plant. The total estimated cost of the assets covered by
the lease agreements is $443 million. The lease terms include a five-year base
term including the construction phase and can be renewed for another five-year
term.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Williams has an option to purchase the leased assets during the lease terms
at amounts approximating the lessors' cost. Williams provides residual value
guarantees equal to a maximum of 89.9 percent of the lessors' cost. The residual
value guarantee is reduced by the present value of actual lease payments. In the
event that Williams does not exercise its purchase option, Williams expects the
fair market value of the covered assets to substantially reduce Williams'
obligation under the residual value guarantee. Williams' disclosures for future
minimum annual rentals under noncancelable operating leases do not include
amounts for residual value guarantees. As of December 31, 2000, approximately
$84 million of costs has been incurred by the lessors.

     During 1998, Williams entered into an operating lease agreement covering a
portion of its fiber-optic network. The total cost of the network assets covered
by the lease agreement was $750 million. The lease terms are expected to total
five years and, if renewed, could total seven years. Under the terms of the
lease agreement, Williams cannot sublease the assets without the prior written
consent of the lessor. Through December 31, 2000, Williams has not requested nor
has the lessor granted such consent.

     Williams has an option to purchase the covered network assets during the
lease term at an amount approximating the lessor's cost. Williams provides a
residual value guarantee equal to a maximum of 89.9 percent of the transaction.
The residual value guarantee is reduced by the present value of actual lease
payments. In the event that Williams does not exercise its purchase option,
Williams expects the fair market value of the covered network assets to
substantially reduce Williams' obligation under the residual value guarantee.
Williams' disclosures for future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable
operating leases do not include amounts for the residual value guarantee.

NOTE 14. MINORITY AND PREFERRED INTERESTS IN SUBSIDIARIES

     Minority and preferred interests in subsidiaries at December 31, 2000 and
1999, are as follows:



  Minority interest

     Minority interest includes $179 million and $311 million at December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively, related to the approximate 15 percent public
ownership of WCG.

  WCG redeemable preferred stock

     In September 2000, WCG issued five million shares of 6.75 percent
redeemable cumulative convertible preferred stock in a private placement at a
liquidation preference of $50 per share for net proceeds of approximately $240.5
million. Each share of preferred stock is convertible into 1.7610 shares of WCG
common stock, based on a conversion price of $28.39. WCG may redeem all or any
shares of preferred stock at any time on or after October 15, 2005, and, under
specified circumstances, before that date. The preferred stock will be subject
to mandatory redemption on October 15, 2012.

     The preferred stock ranks senior to WCG's Class A and B common stock with
respect to dividend rights and rights upon liquidation, winding up and
dissolution. The preferred stock is junior in right of payment of all debt
obligations of WCG.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Dividends are payable quarterly beginning January 15, 2001, at an annual
rate of 6.75 percent. The terms of certain WCG debt agreements currently
restrict WCG from paying cash dividends. During any periods when WCG is
restricted from paying cash dividends, it expects to pay preferred stock
dividends by delivering shares of its common stock to the transfer agent for the
preferred stock, which will resell those shares of common stock. The proceeds
from the sale of its common stock will then be used to pay cash dividends to the
holder of shares of preferred stock.

  Snow Goose, LLC

     In December 2000, Williams formed two separate limited liability companies,
Snow Goose Associates, L.L.C. (Snow Goose) and Arctic Fox Assets, L.L.C. (Arctic
Fox) for the purpose of generating funds to invest in certain Canadian
energy-related assets. Williams contributed equity capital and operating assets
to Arctic Fox and obtained a controlling interest in Arctic Fox. Arctic Fox
contributed capital to Snow Goose and obtained a controlling interest in Snow
Goose. An outside investor contributed $560 million in exchange for a
non-controlling preferred interest in Snow Goose and is entitled to preferred
distributions beginning April 2001, representing an adjustable rate of return of
approximately 7.45 percent. Williams has provided the outside investor of Snow
Goose with certain assurances that Arctic Fox, Snow Goose and other Williams
subsidiaries involved in this transaction will follow various restrictive
covenants similar to those found in Williams' credit agreements and has provided
certain financial support in favor of these entities.

     Williams has the option to acquire the outside investor's interest in Snow
Goose for an amount approximating the fair value of their outstanding ownership
interest. Absent the occurrence of certain events, the purchase option can be
exercised at any time prior to December 2005, the date the preferred return is
currently set to expire. If Williams does not exercise its purchase option and
Williams and the outside investor fail to negotiate a new preferred return prior
to December 2005 (or earlier in the event of a violation of certain restrictive
covenants), the controlling interest in Snow Goose will transfer to the outside
investor entitling it to liquidate the assets of Snow Goose and Arctic Fox.

  Other

     During 1998, Williams formed separate legal entities and contributed
various assets to a newly-formed limited partnership, Castle Associates L.P.
(Castle), and to a limited liability company, Williams Risk Holdings Company,
LLC (Holdings), as a part of transactions that generated funds for Williams'
general corporate use. Outside investors obtained from Williams non-controlling
preferred interests in the newly formed entities for $335 million through
purchase and/or contribution. The assets and liabilities of Castle and Holdings
are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The transactions did not
result in any gain or loss for Williams.

     The preferred interest holders in both Castle and Holdings are entitled to
a priority return based on a variable-rate structure, currently ranging from
approximately seven to eleven percent, in addition to their participation in the
operating results of the partnership and LLC. The current priority return
structures will remain in effect until December 18, 2002 for Castle and
September 21, 2003 for Holdings.

     The Castle limited-partnership agreement and associated operating documents
included certain restrictive covenants and guarantees of Williams and certain of
its subsidiaries. These restrictions are similar to those in Williams' credit
agreements and other debt instruments.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 15. WILLIAMS OBLIGATED MANDATORILY REDEEMABLE PREFERRED SECURITIES OF TRUST
         HOLDING ONLY WILLIAMS INDENTURES

     In December 1999, Williams formed Williams Capital Trust I (Trust) which
issued $175 million in zero coupon Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities. The preferred securities must be redeemed by the Trust no
later than March 2002. The redemption price of the securities accretes until
redeemed and entitles the investor to a fixed-rate annual yield of 7.92 percent.
Proceeds from the sale of the securities were used by the Trust to purchase
Williams' zero-coupon subordinated debentures whose yield and maturity terms are
the same as those of the preferred securities issued by the Trust. The Trust's
sole assets are the Williams' zero-coupon subordinated debentures. Williams
guarantees the obligations of the Trust related to its preferred securities.

NOTE 16. ISSUANCE OF SUBSIDIARY'S COMMON STOCK

     In October 1999, WCG completed an initial public offering of approximately
34 million shares of its common stock at $23 per share for proceeds of
approximately $738 million. In addition, approximately 34 million shares of
common stock were privately sold in concurrent investments by SBC Communications
Inc., Intel Corporation, and Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. for proceeds of
$738.5 million. These transactions resulted in a reduction of Williams'
ownership interest in WCG from 100 percent to 85.3 percent. In accordance with
Williams' policy regarding the issuance of subsidiary's common stock, Williams
recognized a $1.17 billion increase to Williams' capital in excess of par, a
$3.4 million decrease to accumulated other comprehensive income, and an initial
increase of $307 million to Williams' minority interest liability. The issuances
of stock by WCG were not subject to federal income taxes.

NOTE 17. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     During 1999, each remaining share of the $3.50 preferred stock was
converted at the option of the holder into 4.6875 shares of Williams common
stock prior to the redemption date.

     Williams maintains a Stockholder Rights Plan under which each outstanding
share of Williams common stock has one-third of a preferred stock purchase right
attached. Under certain conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase, at
an exercise price of $140 (subject to adjustment), one two-hundredth of a share
of junior participating preferred stock. The rights may be exercised only if an
Acquiring Person acquires (or obtains the right to acquire) 15 percent or more
of Williams common stock; or commences an offer for 15 percent or more of
Williams common stock; or the board of directors determines an Adverse Person
has become the owner of 10 percent or more of Williams common stock. The rights,
which do not have voting rights, expire in 2006 and may be redeemed at a price
of $.01 per right prior to their expiration, or within a specified period of
time after the occurrence of certain events. In the event a person becomes the
owner of more than 15 percent of Williams common stock or the board of directors
determines that a person is an Adverse Person, each holder of a right (except an
Acquiring Person or an Adverse Person) shall have the right to receive, upon
exercise, Williams common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise
price of the right. In the event Williams is engaged in a merger, business
combination or 50 percent or more of Williams' assets, cash flow or earnings
power is sold or transferred, each holder of a right (except an Acquiring Person
or an Adverse Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, common
stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise
price of the right.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 18. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

     Williams has several plans providing for common-stock-based awards to
employees and to non-employee directors. The plans permit the granting of
various types of awards including, but not limited to, stock options,
stock-appreciation rights, restricted stock and deferred stock. Awards may be
granted for no consideration other than prior and future services or based on
certain financial performance targets being achieved. The purchase price per
share for stock options and the grant price for stock-appreciation rights may
not be less than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.
Depending upon terms of the respective plans, stock options generally become
exercisable in one-third increments each year from the anniversary of the grant
or after three or five years, subject to accelerated vesting if certain future
stock prices or if specific financial performance targets are achieved. Stock
options expire 10 years after grant. At December 31, 2000, 45.7 million shares
of Williams common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to existing and
future stock awards, of which 20.9 million shares were available for future
grants (24.7 million at December 31, 1999).

     Certain of these plans have stock option loan programs for the
participants, whereby, at the time of the option exercise the participant may
elect to receive a loan from Williams in an amount limited to 80 percent (or 50
percent under one plan) of the market value of the shares associated with the
exercise. A portion of the stock acquired is held as collateral over the term of
the loan, which can be three or five years. Interest rates are based on the
minimum applicable federal rates, and interest is paid annually. The amount of
loans outstanding at December 31, 2000 and 1999, totaled approximately $53.5
million and $42.1 million, respectively.

     The following summary reflects stock option activity for Williams common
stock and related information for 2000, 1999 and 1998:



     The following summary provides information about Williams stock options
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2000:




                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In conjunction with the initial public offering of WCG stock, options for
Williams common stock granted in 1999 and 1998 under a WCG plan established in
1998 were converted from options for Williams common stock to options for WCG
common stock. The conversion occurred when market prices for Williams and WCG
common stock were $37.63 per share and $23.00 per share, respectively. In
accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, this conversion resulted in a new
measurement date and related pre-tax expense of approximately $.9 million was
recognized in 1999. The remaining value of the option conversion will be
amortized over the various vesting periods of the converted options. The
following summary provides information for the WCG plan stock option activity
and related information for 2000 and 1999; 1998 activity was insignificant and
related only to Williams common stock:



     The following summary provides information about WCG stock options
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2000:



     The estimated fair value at date of grant of options for Williams common
stock granted in 2000, 1999 and 1998, using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model, is as follows:




                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The estimated fair value at date of grant of options for WCG common stock
granted in 2000 and 1999, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, is
listed below. WCG's initial public offering for common stock was September 30,
1999 and therefore, no options were granted during 1998. For those options for
Williams common stock which were converted to options for WCG common stock, the
fair value was estimated at the date conversion using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model.



     Pro forma net income and earnings per share, assuming Williams had applied
the fair-value method of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"
in measuring compensation cost beginning with 1997 employee stock-based awards,
are as follows:



     Pro forma amounts for 2000 include compensation expense from certain
Williams awards made in 1999 and the total compensation expense from Williams
awards made in 2000, as these awards fully vested in 2000 as a result of the
accelerated vesting provisions. Pro forma amounts for 2000 include $37.3 million
for Williams awards and $105.7 million for WCG awards.

     Pro forma amounts for 1999 include the remaining total compensation expense
from Williams awards made in 1998 and the total compensation expense from
certain Williams awards made in 1999, as these awards fully vested in 1999 as a
result of the accelerated vesting provisions. In addition, 1999 pro forma
amounts include compensation expense related to the WCG plan awards and
conversions in 1999. Pro forma amounts for 1999 include $47.1 million for
Williams awards and $6.2 million for WCG awards. Pro forma amounts for 1998
include the previously unrecognized compensation expense related to the MAPCO
options converted at the time of the merger and the remaining total compensation
expense from the awards made in 1997, as these awards fully vested in 1998 as a
result of the accelerated vesting provisions. Since compensation expense from
stock options is recognized over the future years' vesting period for pro forma
disclosure purposes, and additional awards generally are made each year, pro
forma amounts may not be representative of future years' amounts.

     Williams granted approximately 332,000 and 260,000 deferred Williams shares
in 2000 and 1999, respectively. Deferred shares are valued at the date of award,
and the weighted-average grant date fair value of the shares granted was $39.13
in 2000 and $34.84 in 1999. Approximately $11 million and $13 million was
recognized as expense for deferred shares of Williams in 2000 and 1999,
respectively. Expense related to deferred shares is recognized in the
performance year or over the vesting period, depending on the terms of the


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

awards. In 2000 and 1999, Williams issued approximately 140,000 and 125,000,
respectively, of the deferred shares previously granted.

     In conjunction with the WCG initial public offering, 255,000 deferred
shares granted under the Williams and WCG plans in 1998 were converted from
Williams to WCG stock when the market prices were $37.63 and $23.00,
respectively. At that time 25 percent of the shares became fully vested. In
accordance with APB opinion No. 25, this conversion resulted in a new
measurement date, and accordingly, the related expense of approximately $2.2
million is included in 1999. The remaining value of the deferred share
conversion will be amortized over the vesting periods of the converted stock.

NOTE 19. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND ENERGY TRADING ACTIVITIES

  Fair-value methods

     The following methods and assumptions were used by Williams in estimating
its fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:

     Cash and cash equivalents and notes payable:  The carrying amounts reported
in the balance sheet approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of
these instruments.

     Short-term investments, marketable equity securities and Ferrellgas
Partners L.P. senior common units: These securities are classified as
available-for-sale and are reported at fair value, with net unrealized
appreciation or depreciation reported as a component of other comprehensive
income.

     Notes and other non-current receivables:  For those notes with interest
rates approximating market or maturities of less than three years, fair value is
estimated to approximate historically recorded amounts.

     Investments-cost and advances to affiliates:  Fair value is estimated to
approximate historically recorded amounts as the investments are primarily in
non-publicly traded foreign companies for which it is not practicable to
estimate fair value of these investments.

     Long-term debt:  The fair value of Williams' long-term debt is valued using
indicative year-end traded bond market prices for publicly traded issues, while
private debt is valued based on the prices of similar securities with similar
terms and credit ratings. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, 66 percent and 79
percent, respectively, of Williams' long-term debt was publicly traded. Williams
used the expertise of an outside investment banking firm to estimate the fair
value of long-term debt.

     WCG redeemable preferred stock:  Fair value is based on the prices of
similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings as the preferred stock
is not publicly traded. Williams used the expertise of an outside investment
banking firm to establish the fair value of redeemable cumulative convertible
preferred stock.

     Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of
Trust:  Fair value is based on the prices of similar securities with similar
terms and credit ratings as the preferred securities are not publicly traded.
Williams used the expertise of an outside investment banking firm to establish
the fair value of obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.

     Interest-rate swaps:  Fair value is determined by discounting estimated
future cash flows using forward-interest rates derived from the year-end yield
curve. Fair value was calculated by the financial institutions that are the
counterparties to the swaps.

     Energy-related trading and hedging:  Energy-related trading includes
forwards, options, swaps, purchase and sales commitments and other
energy-related contracts such as transportation, storage and power tolling
contracts. Energy-related hedging includes futures, options and swaps. Fair
value reflects management's estimates using valuation techniques that reflect
the best information available under the circumstances. This information
includes various factors such as quoted market prices, estimates of market
prices in absence of


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

quoted market prices, contractual volumes, estimated volumes under option and
other arrangements that result in varying volumes, other contract terms,
liquidity of the market in which the contract is transacted, credit
considerations, time value and volatility factors underlying the positions.
These values reflect the appropriate adjustments for uncertainty regarding the
company's ability to liquidate the position considering market factors
applicable at the date of such valuation. Judgement is required in interpreting
market factors and the use of alternative market assumptions or valuation
methodologies may affect management's estimate of fair value.

  Carrying amounts and fair values of Williams' financial instruments and energy
  trading activities



     The preceding asset and liability amounts for energy-related hedging
represent unrealized gains or losses and do not include the related deferred
amounts. The increase in energy-related hedging liabilities is primarily due to
the hedging strategy utilized by the Exploration & Production segment.
Exploration & Production hedged approximately 50 percent of production in 2000
and at December 31, 2000, has entered into contracts that hedge approximately 70
percent and 38 percent of 2001 and 2002 estimated production, respectively.
Subsequent to December 31, 2000, Exploration & Production contracted to hedge an
additional 28 percent of estimated production for 2002. The contracted hedge
prices are at prices lower than the spot market prices of natural gas seen at
the end of 2000, however, the contracted hedged prices are higher than
Exploration & Production's realized average natural gas price for 2000.

     In addition to the financial instruments provided in the table above,
Williams has recorded liabilities of $17 million and $18 million at December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively, for certain guarantees.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Off-balance-sheet credit and market risk

     Williams is a participant in the following transactions and arrangements
that involve financial instruments that have off-balance-sheet risk of
accounting loss. It is not practicable to estimate the fair value of these off-
balance-sheet financial instruments because of their unusual nature and unique
characteristics.

     Williams has agreements to sell, on an ongoing basis, certain of its
accounts receivable to special-purpose entities (SPEs). At December 31, 2000,
Williams sold approximately $1.3 billion of its accounts receivable in exchange
for $366 million in cash and approximately $936 million in notes receivable from
the SPEs. For 2000, Williams received cash from the SPEs of approximately $9
billion. The sales of these receivables resulted in a net charge to results of
operations of approximately $23 million and $17 million in 2000 and 1999. The
notes receivable from the SPEs are subject to credit risk to the extent that the
underlying receivables sold to the SPEs are not collected. See Concentrations of
Credit Risk below.

     Williams has issued other guarantees and letters of credit with
off-balance-sheet risk that total approximately $78 million and $266 million at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Except as discussed in Note 5,
Williams believes it will not have to perform under these agreements, because
the likelihood of default by the primary party is remote and/or because of
certain indemnifications received from other third parties.

  Energy trading and price-risk management activities

     Williams, through Energy Marketing & Trading, provides price-risk
management services associated with the energy industry to its customers. These
services are provided through a variety of energy and energy-related contracts
including forward contracts, futures contracts, option contracts, swap
agreements, purchase and sale commitments and transportation, storage and power
tolling contracts. See Note 1 for a description of the accounting for these
trading activities. The net gain from trading price-risk management activities
was $1,286.7 million, $214 million and $112.6 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

     The 2000 average fair value of the energy-related trading assets and
liabilities is $2,747 million and $2,230 million, respectively. The 1999 average
fair value of the energy-related trading assets and liabilities is $565 million
and $507 million, respectively. The increase in energy-related trading assets
and liabilities primarily reflects increased electric power and natural gas
prices and price volatility combined with an expanded trading portfolio to
include price-risk management from an additional 2,350 megawatts from contracts
which were executed in late 1999 and early 2000 giving Energy Marketing &
Trading the right to market combined capacity from three power generating
plants.

     Energy Marketing & Trading enters into contracts which involve physical
delivery of an energy commodity. Prices under these contracts are both fixed and
variable. These contracts involve both firm commitments requiring fixed volumes
and option and other arrangements that result in varying volumes. Swap
agreements call for Energy Marketing & Trading to make payments to (or receive
payments from) counterparties based upon the differential between a fixed and
variable price or variable prices for different locations. Energy Marketing &
Trading buys and sells financial option contracts which give the buyer the right
to exercise the option and receive the difference between a predetermined strike
price and a market price at the date of exercise. The prices for forwards, swap,
option and physical contracts consider exchange quoted prices or management's
estimates based on the best information available. Energy Marketing & Trading
also enters into futures contracts, which are commitments to either purchase or
sell a commodity at a future date for a specified price and are generally
settled in cash, but may be settled through delivery of the underlying
commodity. The market prices for futures contracts are based on exchange
quotations. Energy Marketing & Trading also has contracts to provide price-risk
management services through marketing over 7,000 megawatts of electricity
capacity from third-party-owned and operated power generating plants across the
United States. Energy Marketing & Trading's costs under these contracts are both
fixed and variable. The fair value of these


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

contracts is determined based on a combination of spot and forward prices and
volatilities of electricity, natural gas, and other similar contracts using
management's estimates based on the information available including model
valuation techniques.

     Energy Marketing & Trading is subject to market risk from changes in energy
commodity market prices, the portfolio position of its financial instruments and
physical commitments, the liquidity of the market in which the contract is
transacted, changes in interest rates and credit risk. Energy Marketing &
Trading manages market risk on a portfolio basis through established trading
policy guidelines which are monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit risk relates
to the risk of loss that Williams would incur as a result of nonperformance by
counterparties pursuant to the terms of their contractual obligations. Williams
attempts to minimize credit-risk exposure to trading counterparties and brokers
through formal credit policies, monitoring procedures, and collateral
requirements under certain circumstances. Valuation allowances are provided for
credit risk in accordance with the established credit policies.

     The counterparties associated with assets from energy trading and
price-risk management activities as of December 31, 2000, are summarized as
follows:



- -------------------------

(a)  "Investment Grade" is primarily determined using publicly available credit
     ratings along with consideration of cash, standby letters of credit, parent
     company guarantees and property interests, including oil and gas reserves.
     Included in "Investment Grade" are counterparties with a minimum Standard &
     Poor's or Moody's rating of BBB- or Baa3, respectively.

(b)  One counterparty's exposure is greater than 5 percent of assets from
     price-risk management activities and is included above as Investment Grade.

     The concentration of counterparties within the energy and energy trading
industry does impact Williams' overall exposure to credit risk in that these
counterparties are similarly influenced by changes in the economy and regulatory
issues. However, based on the credit policies and procedures discussed above,
Williams does not anticipate that counterparty nonperformance would result in a
significant adverse effect to the financial statements.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The notional quantities for trading activities at December 31, 2000 and
1999, are as follows:



     The net cash inflows related to these contracts at December 31, 2000 and
1999, were approximately $1 billion and $76 million, respectively. At December
31, 2000, the cash inflows extend primarily through 2022.

  Concentration of credit risk

     Williams' cash equivalents and short-term investments consist of
high-quality securities placed with various major financial institutions with
high credit ratings. Williams' investment policy limits its credit exposure to
any one issuer/obligor.

     The following table summarizes concentration of receivables, net of
allowances, by product or service at December 31, 2000 and 1999:



     Natural gas customers include pipelines, distribution companies, producers,
gas marketers and industrial users primarily located in the eastern,
northwestern and midwestern United States. Petroleum products customers include
wholesale, commercial, governmental, industrial and individual consumers and
independent dealers located primarily in Alaska and the midsouth and
southeastern United States. Power customers include the California Independent
System Operator, other power marketers and utilities located throughout the
majority of the United States. Communications serves a wide range of customers
including numerous corporations, none of which is individually significant to
its business. Collection of the notes receivable from the SPEs is dependent on
the collection of the receivables which were transferred to the SPEs in exchange
for the notes. The underlying receivables are primarily for the sale or
transportation of natural gas and related products or services and the sale of
petroleum products in the United States. As a general policy, collateral is not
required for receivables, but customers' financial condition and credit
worthiness are evaluated regularly.

     Subsequent to December 31, 2000, certain receivables from power customers
in the western region of the United States have not been paid timely. In
addition, Williams and other energy traders and marketers have been ordered to
continue selling power to the California Independent System Operator and certain
other


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

utilities irrespective of their credit ratings. Williams believes that it has
appropriately reflected the collection and credit risk associated with
receivables and trading assets in the statement of position and results of
operations at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2000, Williams' Consolidated
Balance Sheet includes receivables from power sales to the California Power
Exchange which approximates 10 percent of total receivables from power sales and
related services.

NOTE 20. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS

  Rate and regulatory matters and related litigation

     Williams' interstate pipeline subsidiaries have various regulatory
proceedings pending. As a result of rulings in certain of these proceedings, a
portion of the revenues of these subsidiaries has been collected subject to
refund. The natural gas pipeline subsidiaries have accrued approximately $72
million for potential refund as of December 31, 2000.

     In 1997, the FERC issued orders addressing, among other things, the
authorized rates of return for three of the Williams interstate natural gas
pipeline subsidiaries. All of the orders involve rate cases that became
effective between 1993 and 1995 and, in each instance, these cases were
superseded by more recently filed rate cases. In the three orders, the FERC
continued its practice of utilizing a methodology for calculating rates of
return that incorporates a long-term growth rate component. However, the
long-term growth rate component used by the FERC is now a projection of U.S.
gross domestic product growth rates. Generally, calculating rates of return
utilizing a methodology which includes a long-term growth rate component results
in rates of return that are lower than they would be if the long-term growth
rate component were not included in the methodology. Each of the three pipeline
subsidiaries challenged its respective FERC order in an effort to have the FERC
change its rate-of-return methodology with respect to these and other rate
cases. On January 30, 1998, the FERC convened a public conference to consider,
on an industry-wide basis, issues with respect to pipeline rates of return. In
July 1998, the FERC issued orders in two of the three pipeline subsidiary rate
cases, again modifying its rate-of-return methodology by adopting a formula that
gives less weight to the long-term growth component. Certain parties appealed
the FERC's action, because the most recent formula modification results in
somewhat higher rates of return compared to the rates of return calculated under
the FERC's prior formula. The appeals have been denied. In June and July 1999,
the FERC applied the new methodology in the third pipeline subsidiary rate case,
as well as in a fourth case involving the same pipeline subsidiary. In March
2000, the FERC applied the new methodology in a fifth case involving a Williams
interstate pipeline subsidiary, and certain parties have sought rehearing before
the FERC in this proceeding. After evaluating the rehearing requests, Williams
reduced its accrued liability for rate refunds in second-quarter 2000 by $62.7
million of which $58.8 million is included in Gas Pipeline's segment revenues
and segment profit and $3.9 million is included in Midstream Gas & Liquids'
segment revenues and segment profit. An additional $8.5 million of related
interest is included as a reduction of interest accrued. In January 2001, the
FERC denied the rehearing requests in this proceeding.

     As a result of FERC Order 636 decisions in prior years, each of the natural
gas pipeline subsidiaries has undertaken the reformation or termination of its
respective gas supply contracts. None of the pipelines has any significant
pending supplier take-or-pay, ratable take or minimum take claims.

     In September 1995, Texas Gas received FERC approval of a settlement
regarding Texas Gas' recovery of gas supply realignment costs. Through December
31, 2000, Texas Gas has paid approximately $76 million and expects to pay no
more than $80 million for gas supply realignment costs, primarily as a result of
contract terminations. Texas Gas has recovered approximately $66 million, plus
interest, in gas supply realignment costs.

     On July 29, 1998, the FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR)
and a Notice of Inquiry (NOI), proposing revisions to regulatory policies for
interstate natural gas transportation service. In the


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOPR, the FERC proposes to eliminate the rate cap on short-term transportation
services and implement regulatory policies that are intended to maximize
competition in the short-term transportation market, mitigate the ability of
firms to exercise residual monopoly power and provide opportunities for greater
flexibility in the provision of pipeline services and to revise certain other
rate and certificate policies. In the NOI, the FERC sought comments on its
pricing policies in the existing long-term market and pricing policies for new
capacity. Williams filed comments on the NOPR and NOI in the second quarter of
1999. On February 9, 2000, the FERC issued a final rule, Order 637, in response
to the comments received on the NOPR and NOI. The FERC adopted in Order 637
certain policies that it found were necessary to adjust its current regulatory
model to the needs of the evolving markets, but determined that any fundamental
changes to its regulatory policy, which changes were raised and commented on in
the NOPR and NOI, would be considered after further study and evaluation of the
evolving marketplace. Most significantly, in Order 637, the FERC (i) revised its
pricing policy to waive, for a two-year period, the maximum price ceilings for
short-term releases of capacity of less than one year, and (ii) permitted
pipelines to file proposals to implement seasonal rates for short-term services
and term-differentiated rates, subject to certain requirements including the
requirement that a pipeline be limited to recovering its annual revenue
requirement under those rates.

     Williams Energy Marketing & Trading subsidiaries are engaged in power
marketing in various geographic areas, including in California. Prices charged
for power by Williams and other traders and generators in California markets
have been challenged in various proceedings including before the FERC. In
December 2000, the FERC issued an order which provided that for the period
between October 2, 2000 and December 31, 2002, refunds may be ordered if the
FERC finds that the wholesale markets in California are unable to produce
competitive, just and reasonable prices, or that market power or other
individual seller conduct is exercised to produce an unjust and unreasonable
rate. For periods commencing January 1, 2001, refund liability will expire
within 60 days of a sale unless the FERC sends the seller a written notice that
the sale is still under review. Williams had not received any such notice as of
February 28, 2001.

  Environmental matters

     Since 1989, Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line have had studies
under way to test certain of their facilities for the presence of toxic and
hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation may be
necessary. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line has responded to data requests
regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites. The costs of any
such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation. At December 31,
2000, these subsidiaries had accrued liabilities totaling approximately $36
million for these costs.

     Certain Williams subsidiaries, including Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, have been identified as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at
various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these
subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other
hazardous materials removal or remediation obligations under environmental laws.
Although no assurances can be given, Williams does not believe that these
obligations or the PRP status of these subsidiaries will have a material adverse
effect on its financial position, results of operations or net cash flows.

     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Williams Gas Pipelines
Central (Central) have identified polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination
in air compressor systems, soils and related properties at certain compressor
station sites. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have also
been involved in negotiations with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) and state agencies to develop screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In
addition, negotiations with certain environmental authorities and other programs
concerning investigative and remedial actions relative to potential mercury
contamination at certain gas metering sites have been commenced by Central,
Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line. As of December 31, 2000, Central
had accrued a liability for approximately $10 million, representing the current
estimate of future environmental cleanup costs to be incurred over the next six
to


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10 years. Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line likewise had accrued
liabilities for these costs which are included in the $36 million liability
mentioned above. Actual costs incurred will depend on the actual number of
contaminated sites identified, the actual amount and extent of contamination
discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other
governmental authorities and other factors. Texas Gas, Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line and Central have deferred these costs as incurred pending recovery through
future rates and other means.

     In July 1999, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line received a letter stating that
the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), at the request of the EPA, intends to file
a civil action against Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line arising from its waste
management practices at Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's compressor stations and
metering stations in 11 states from Texas to New Jersey. The DOJ stated in the
letter that its complaint will seek civil penalties and injunctive relief under
federal environmental laws. The DOJ and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line are
discussing a settlement. While no specific amount was proposed, the DOJ stated
that any settlement must include an appropriate civil penalty for the alleged
violations. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line cannot reasonably estimate the amount
of its potential liability, if any, at this time. However, Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line believes it has substantially addressed environmental concerns on its
system through ongoing voluntary remediation and management programs.

     Williams Energy Services (WES) and its subsidiaries also accrue
environmental remediation costs for its natural gas gathering and processing
facilities, petroleum products pipelines, retail petroleum and refining
operations and for certain facilities related to former propane marketing
operations primarily related to soil and groundwater contamination. In addition,
WES owns a discontinued petroleum refining facility that is being evaluated for
potential remediation efforts. At December 31, 2000, WES and its subsidiaries
had accrued liabilities totaling approximately $49 million. WES accrues
receivables related to environmental remediation costs based upon an estimate of
amounts that will be reimbursed from state funds for certain expenses associated
with underground storage tank problems and repairs. At December 31, 2000, WES
and its subsidiaries had accrued receivables totaling $15 million.

     Williams Field Services (WFS), a WES subsidiary, received a Notice of
Violation (NOV) from the EPA in February 2000. WFS received a contemporaneous
letter from the DOJ indicating that the DOJ will also be involved in the matter.
The NOV alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at a gas processing plant. WFS,
the EPA and the DOJ agreed to settle this matter for a penalty of $850,000. In
the course of investigating this matter, WFS discovered a similar potential
violation at the plant and disclosed it to the EPA and the DOJ. The parties will
discuss whether additional enforcement action is warranted.

     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company,
Williams agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs
resulting from certain conditions at specified locations, to the extent such
costs exceed a specified amount. At December 31, 2000, Williams had
approximately $12 million accrued for such excess costs. The actual costs
incurred will depend on the actual amount and extent of contamination
discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other
governmental authorities, and other factors.

  Other legal matters

     In connection with agreements to resolve take-or-pay and other contract
claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and
Texas Gas each entered into certain settlements with producers which may require
the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties which the
producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. As a result of
such settlements, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line is currently defending two
lawsuits brought by producers. In one of the cases, a jury verdict found that
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line was required to pay a producer damages of $23.3
million including $3.8 million in attorneys' fees. In addition, through December
31, 2000, postjudgement interest was approximately $7.5 million.
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's appeals have been denied by the Texas Court of

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Appeals for the First District of Texas, and the company is pursuing an appeal
to the Texas Supreme Court. In the other case, a producer has asserted damages,
including interest calculated through December 31, 1997, of approximately $6
million. In August 2000, a producer asserted a claim for approximately $6.7
million against Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line. Producers have received and may
receive other demands, which could result in additional claims. Indemnification
for royalties will depend on, among other things, the specific lease provisions
between the producer and the lessor and the terms of the settlement between the
producer and either Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line or Texas Gas. Texas Gas may
file to recover 75 percent of any such additional amounts it may be required to
pay pursuant to indemnities for royalties under the provisions of Order 528.

     In 1998, the United States Department of Justice informed Williams that
Jack Grynberg, an individual, had filed claims in the United States District
Court for the District of Colorado under the False Claims Act against Williams
and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries including Williams Gas Pipelines
Central, Kern River Gas Transmission, Northwest Pipeline, Williams Gas Pipeline
Company, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, Texas Gas, Williams Field
Services Company and Williams Production Company. Mr. Grynberg has also filed
claims against approximately 300 other energy companies and alleges that the
defendants violated the False Claims Act in connection with the measurement and
purchase of hydrocarbons. The relief sought is an unspecified amount of
royalties allegedly not paid to the federal government, treble damages, a civil
penalty, attorneys' fees, and costs. On April 9, 1999, the United States
Department of Justice announced that it was declining to intervene in any of the
Grynberg qui tam cases, including the action filed against the Williams entities
in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. On October 21,
1999, the Panel on Multi-District Litigation transferred all of the Grynberg qui
tam cases, including the ones filed against Williams, to the United States
District Court for the District of Wyoming for pre-trial purposes. Motions to
dismiss the complaints filed by various defendants, including Williams, are
pending.

     WCG and a subsidiary are named as defendants in various putative,
nationwide class actions brought on behalf of all landowners on whose property
the plaintiffs have alleged WCG installed fiber-optic cable without the
permission of the landowner. WCG believes that installation of the cable
containing the single fiber network that crosses over or near the putative class
members' land does not infringe on their property rights. WCG also does not
believe that the plaintiffs have sufficient basis for certification of a class
action.

     It is likely that WCG will be subject to other putative class action suits
challenging its railroad or pipeline rights of way. WCG cannot quantify the
impact of all such claims at this time. Thus, WCG cannot be certain that the
plaintiffs' purported class action or other purported class actions, if
successful, will not have a material adverse effect on WCG's future financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.

     On September 7, 2000, All-Phase Utility Corp. amended its complaint in a
matter originally filed June 28, 1999, against Williams Communication, Inc.
(WCI), a subsidiary of WCG, in the United States District Court for Oregon. In
the amended complaint, All-Phase alleges actual damages of at least $236.5
million plus punitive damages of an additional amount equal to double the amount
of actual damages. All-Phase alleges that a portion of WCI's Eugene, Oregon to
Bandon, Oregon route is based on confidential information developed by All-Phase
and that WCI breached its non-disclosure agreement with All-Phase and violated
the Oregon Trade Secrets Act by using it. All-Phase also alleges that WCI
misrepresented plans for the route and that, as a result, All-Phase lost the
opportunity to build its own line along the same route. All-Phase alleges that
its damages include loss of profit from the construction it believes it would
have performed for WCI and lost revenue from leases of fiber-optic cable and
conduits. On January 22, 2001, the court granted WCI's motion for summary
judgement and dismissed the case.

     In November 2000, class actions were filed on behalf of San Diego rate
payers against California power generators and traders including Williams Energy
Marketing & Trading Company, a subsidiary of Williams. In January 2001, other
class actions were filed, one on behalf of the people of California in San
Francisco, California by the city attorney and the other by a California water
authority and district. These lawsuits

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

concern the increase in power prices in California over the past several months.
Williams is also a defendant in other private suits. The suits claim that the
defendants acted to manipulate prices in violation of the California antitrust
and business practice statutes and other state and federal laws. Plantiffs are
seeking injunctive relief as well as restitution, disgorgement, appointment of a
receiver, and damages, including treble damages.

     In addition to the foregoing, various other proceedings are pending against
Williams or its subsidiaries which are incidental to their operations.

  Summary

     While no assurances may be given, Williams, based on advice of counsel,
does not believe that the ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as
a whole and after consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery
from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will have a materially
adverse effect upon Williams' future financial position, results of operations
or cash flow requirements.

  Commitments

     Energy Marketing & Trading has entered into certain contracts giving
Williams the right to receive fuel conversion services as well as certain other
services associated with electric generation facilities that are either
currently in operation or are to be constructed at various locations throughout
the continental United States. At December 31, 2000, annual estimated committed
payments under these contracts range from approximately $20 million to $409
million, resulting in total committed payments over the next 22 years of
approximately $7 billion.

     Williams has also entered into an agreement giving Williams a 25-year right
to use a portion of a third party's wireless local capacity. Williams will pay a
total of $400 million over four years for this right and will amortize the total
payments over the 25-year usage term. As of December 31, 2000, Williams has paid
approximately $250 million.

     See Note 11 for commitments for construction and acquisition of property,
plant and equipment.

NOTE 21. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     Effective in January 2000, SBC is a related party by appointment of an
officer of SBC as an outside member of WCG's board of directors. SBC purchases
domestic voice and data long distance and local transport services from WCG.
Revenues from SBC were $169.5 million and $2.5 million for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. There were no revenues from SBC for
the year ended December 31, 1998. WCG purchases local transport services,
platform services such as toll-free, operator, calling card and directory
assistance services and international services such as transport and
switched-voice services from SBC. These purchases from SBC were $51.7 million,
$13.2 million and $17.7 million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     In first-quarter 2000, Williams sold a portion of its investment in ATL to
an entity jointly owned by SBC and Telefonos (see Note 4).

     In June of 2000, WCG acquired SBC's interests in undersea communications
cables between the United States and China, and between the United States and
Japan, from SBC for a purchase price of approximately $111.4 million. In
September 2000, WCG purchased the long-distance network assets of Ameritech
Communications, Inc., a subsidiary of SBC, for a purchase price of $145 million.
These assets are located in the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio and
Wisconsin and include a 2,200 mile fiber-optic network over four routes,
indefeasible rights of use in dark fiber and 15 data centers.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In fourth-quarter 2000, Williams entered into a $600 million debt
obligation with Lehman Brothers Inc. Lehman Brothers Inc. is a related party as
a result of a director that serves on both Williams' and Lehman Brothers
Holdings, Inc.'s board of directors (see Note 13).

NOTE 22. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

     The table below presents changes in the components of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).




                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 23. SEGMENT DISCLOSURES

     Williams evaluates performance based upon segment profit or loss from
operations which includes revenues from external and internal customers, equity
earnings or losses, operating costs and expenses, depreciation, depletion and
amortization and income or loss from investments. The accounting policies of the
segments are the same as those described in Note 1, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies. Intersegment sales are generally accounted for as if the
sales were to unaffiliated third parties, that is, at current market prices. As
a result of the assumption of investment management activities within the
operating segments, the definition of segment profit (loss) was modified in
first-quarter 2000 to include income (loss) from investments resulting from the
management of investments in equity instruments. This income (loss) from
investments is reported in investing income in the Consolidated Statement of
Income. The segment information has been restated to conform to this
presentation.

     Williams' reportable segments are strategic business units that offer
different products and services. The segments are managed separately because
each segment requires different technology, marketing strategies and industry
knowledge. Other includes investments in international energy and
communications-related ventures, as well as corporate operations.

     1999 and 1998 segment amounts within Energy Services have been restated to
reflect first-quarter 2001 transfer of certain operations that were previously
conducted by Energy Marketing & Trading to Petroleum Services (see Note 1).
Additionally, 1999 and 1998 Communications segment losses have been restated to
include certain Communications' shared services costs that were previously
allocated to Solutions (see Note 3).

     The following table reflects the reconciliation of operating income as
reported on the Consolidated Statement of Income to segment profit, per the
table on page 105.


     The following geographic area data includes revenues from external
customers based on product shipment origin and long-lived assets based upon
physical location.



     Long-lived assets are comprised of property, plant and equipment and
certain other non-current assets.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



- ---------------

* Energy Marketing & Trading intercompany cost of sales, which are netted in
  revenues consistent with fair-value accounting, exceed intercompany revenues.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONCLUDED)



NOTE 24. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     In January 2001, Williams issued approximately 38 million shares of common
stock in a public offering, at $36.125 per share. Net proceeds from the offering
totaled $1.3 billion and will be used primarily to expand Williams' capacity to
fund its energy-related capital program, repay commercial paper and other
short-term debt and for general corporate purposes.

     Williams Energy Partners L.P. (WEP), a wholly owned partnership, owns and
operates a diversified portfolio of energy assets. The partnership is
principally engaged in the storage, transportation and distribution of refined
petroleum products and anhydrous ammonia. On February 9, 2001, WEP completed an
initial public offering of approximately 4.6 million common units at $21.50 per
unit for net proceeds of approximately $92 million. The initial public offering
represents 40 percent of the units, and Williams will retain a 60 percent
interest in the partnership, including its general partner interest.

     In first-quarter 2001, Williams granted an option to Telecom Americas,
Ltd., a joint venture between SBC, American Movil, S.A. de C.V. and Bell Canada
International, Inc., to purchase Williams' interest in ATL for an agreed to
price. The option was granted in exchange for Telecom Americas, Ltd. paying
Williams' portion of a required funding to ATL. The option will expire at the
end of first-quarter 2001.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                            QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA
                                  (UNAUDITED)

     Summarized quarterly financial data are as follows (millions, except
per-share amounts). Certain amounts have been restated or reclassified as
described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





     The sum of earnings per share for the four quarters may not equal the total
earnings per share for the year due to changes in the average number of common
shares outstanding and rounding.

     First-quarter 2000 net income includes pre-tax gains of $31.5 million on
the sale of a portion of Williams' investment in marketable equity securities
and $16.5 million for the sale of a portion of Williams investment in ATL-Algar
Telecom Leste S.A. (see Note 4). Additional pre-tax gains on the sale of certain
marketable equity securities of $36.6 million and $40.2 million and a pre-tax
loss (net of gains) of $13.8 million were recorded in second, third and
fourth-quarter 2000, respectively (see Note 4). Second-quarter 2000 net income
includes a pre-tax gain of $214.7 million resulting from the conversion of
Williams' shares of common stock of Concentric Network Corporation into shares
of common stock of XO Communications, Inc. pursuant to a merger of those
companies completed in June 2000 (see Note 4). Additionally, second-quarter 2000
net income includes approximately $75 million in pre-tax reductions to certain
rate refund liabilities and related interest accruals based on favorable FERC
and judicial rulings received regarding regulatory proceedings (see Note 20).
Also included in second and fourth-quarter 2000 net income is a $25.9 million
and a $17.2 million pre-tax charge, respectively, resulting from the decision to
discontinue Energy Marketing & Trading's mezzanine lending services (see Note
5). Fourth-quarter 2000 net income includes a $16.3 million pre-tax charge
relating to management's decision and commitment to sell Energy Marketing &
Trading's distributed


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (CONCLUDED)
                                  (UNAUDITED)

power generation business and an $11.9 million pre-tax charge relating to
management's decision and commitment to sell certain of Petroleum Services'
end-to-end mobile computing systems business. These charges represent the
impairment of the assets to fair value based on the expected net sales proceeds.

     First, second, third and fourth-quarter 2000 includes after-tax losses from
discontinued operations of $27 million, $5.4 million, $8.9 million and $307.6
million, respectively, related to Williams' plan to divest the operations that
previously comprised the Solutions segment (see Note 3).

     First, second, third and fourth-quarter 1999 includes after-tax losses from
discontinued operations of $2.5 million, $.2 million, $4.5 million and $9
million, respectively, related to Williams' plan to divest the operations that
previously comprised the Solutions segment (see Note 3).

     Second-quarter 1999 net income includes a $51 million favorable pre-tax
adjustment related to the reduction of certain rate refund liabilities and
related interest accruals resulting from regulatory proceedings involving
rate-of-return methodology. Also included in second-quarter 1999 net income is a
$26.7 million pre-tax charge related to the sale of certain Strategic
Investments' network application businesses. An additional $1.7 million was
recorded in the fourth quarter relating to this sale (see Note 5).
Fourth-quarter 1999 net income for Gas Pipeline includes a $21 million favorable
pre-tax reduction of certain rate refund liabilities resulting from recent
developments in regulatory proceedings which concluded that the risk involved
with one of the issues in the proceedings had been eliminated. Also included in
fourth-quarter 1999 net income are pre-tax gains of approximately $15.8 million
for the sale of Energy Marketing & Trading's retail natural gas and electric
operations and $14.7 million for the sale of certain gas producing properties at
Exploration & Production. An after-tax gain of $65.2 million related to the sale
of Williams' retail propane business, Thermogas L.L.C. is also included in
fourth-quarter 1999 (see Note 7).



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

          SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                          STATEMENT OF INCOME (PARENT)



                            See accompanying notes.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONTINUED)
                             BALANCE SHEET (PARENT)



                            See accompanying notes.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONTINUED)
                        STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (PARENT)



                            See accompanying notes.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONTINUED)
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT)

NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     In January 2001, The Williams Companies, Inc. (Parent) (Williams (Parent))
board of directors authorized a plan for its management to divest the operations
that previously comprised the Solutions segment, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Williams Communications Group, Inc. (WCG). Solutions has been accounted for as
discontinued operations, and accordingly, the accompanying Condensed Financial
Information of Registrant has been restated to reflect the results of operations
of Solutions as discontinued operations.

     During 1999, Williams Holdings of Delaware, Inc. (Williams Holdings), a
wholly owned subsidiary, merged with and into Williams (Parent). Subsequent to
the merger date, this Condensed Financial Information of Registrant includes the
accounts previously reported by Williams Holdings on a parent company-only
basis. This Condensed Financial Information of Registrant should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto of The
Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams).

NOTE 2. DEBT AND BANKING ARRANGEMENTS

  Notes payable

     During 2000, Williams' (Parent) commercial paper program, backed by a
short-term credit facility, was increased from $1.4 billion to $1.7 billion. At
December 31, 2000 and 1999, $1.7 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of
commercial paper was outstanding under the respective programs. In addition,
Williams (Parent) has entered into various other short-term credit agreements
with amounts outstanding totaling $350 million and $50 million at December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively. The weighted-average interest rate on all
outstanding short-term borrowings at December 31, 2000 and 1999, was
approximately 7.2 percent and 6.1 percent, respectively.

     In December 2000, Williams (Parent) entered into a $600 million debt
obligation with Lehman Brothers Inc., which matures in December 2001. The
interest rate varies based on LIBOR plus .75 percent with an interest rate of
7.27 percent at December 31, 2000. In January 2001, $300 million of the
obligation was repaid with proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt
obligations and, as such, $300 million is classified as long-term as discussed
below.

     In September 2000, Williams (Parent) entered into a $500 million debt
obligation with a 10-year and four-month maturity. During the initial four
months, the interest rate varied based on LIBOR plus .40 percent with an
interest rate of 7.17 percent at December 31, 2000. In January 2001, this debt
obligation was replaced with long-term debt obligations and, as such, is
classified as long-term as discussed below.


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONTINUED)
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT)

  Long-Term Debt

     Long-term debt at December 31, 2000 and 1999, is as follows:



- ---------------

 *  At December 31, 2000.

(1) $240 million, 6.125% notes, payable 2012, are subject to redemption at par
    at the option of the debtholder in 2002.

     For financial reporting purposes at December 31, 2000, $800 million in
obligations which would have otherwise been classified as current notes payable
have been classified as non-current based on Williams' (Parent) intent and
ability to refinance on a long-term basis. Proceeds from Williams' (Parent)
issuance in January 2001 of $700 million of 7.5 percent debentures due January
2031 and $400 million of 6.75 percent Putable Asset Term Securities,
putable/callable in 2006, were sufficient to complete these refinancings.

     In January 2000, Williams (Parent) issued $500 million of adjustable rate
notes due 2001 at an initial interest rate of approximately 6.5 percent. In
April 2000, Williams (Parent) entered into a $400 million three-year term loan
agreement which was fully utilized at December 31, 2000. Interest rates are
based on LIBOR plus one percent.

     Aggregate minimum maturities and sinking fund requirements, considering the
reclassification of current obligations as previously described, for each of the
next five years are as follows:



     In connection with the December 2000 formation of Snow Goose Associates,
L.L.C. (Snow Goose) and Arctic Fox Assets, L.L.C. (Arctic Fox), as described in
Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Williams (Parent) entered
into a five-year interest rate and foreign currency swap with Arctic Fox.
Williams (Parent) pays a variable-rate to Arctic Fox based on a notional value
of $400 million U.S. dollars, and Arctic Fox pays Williams (Parent) a fixed-rate
based on a notional value of $607.5 million Canadian dollars. At the end of the
five years, Williams (Parent) pays the notional value of $400 million U.S.
dollars to Arctic Fox in exchange for $607.5 million Canadian dollars. The
carrying amount of the swap, recorded by Williams (Parent) at December 31, 2000,
was a liability of $68.7 million. The fair value of the swap at December 31,
2000, was a liability of $66 million. Williams used the expertise of an outside
investment banking firm to estimate the fair value of the swap. The January 1,
2001, cumulative effect of the


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONTINUED)
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT)

accounting change associated with the initial adoption of SFAS No. 133 is not
material to the results of operations for this swap.

NOTE 3. DUE FROM AND DUE TO CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

     Due from and due to consolidated subsidiaries consist of short-term
receivables and payables with subsidiaries and promissory notes to and from
subsidiaries. Williams (Parent) maintains various promissory notes with its
subsidiaries for both advances from and advances to Williams (Parent) depending
on the cash position of each subsidiary. Amounts outstanding are generally
payable on demand; however, the amounts outstanding at December 31, 2000 and
1999 have been classified as long-term to the extent there are no expectations
for Williams (Parent) and its subsidiaries to demand payment in the next year.
The agreements do not require commitment fees. Interest is payable monthly, and
rates vary with market conditions.

     At December 31, 2000, WCG has a long-term credit agreement containing
restrictive covenants limiting the transfer of funds to Williams (Parent),
including the payment of dividends and repayment of intercompany borrowings by
WCG to Williams (Parent).

     In 1999, Williams (Parent) issued $175 million in zero coupon subordinated
debentures which yield a 7.92 percent return and mature no later than March 2002
to Williams Capital Trust I, a consolidated entity. These debentures are
included in non-current due to consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 2000
and 1999.

NOTE 4. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     In connection with the December 2000 formation of Snow Goose and Arctic
Fox, Williams (Parent) issued 342,000 shares of Williams' December 2000
cumulative convertible preferred stock to Arctic Fox, a wholly owned subsidiary
of Williams (Parent). Each share of December 2000 preferred stock has a
liquidation value of $1,000 and is convertible into Williams common stock at a
conversion ratio that varies based on factors including, but not limited to, the
market value of Williams common stock. Initially, in December 2000, each share
of December 2000 preferred stock was convertible into approximately 31.43 shares
of Williams common stock. Dividends are payable quarterly at a variable rate
based on market conditions with a rate of 8.9 percent at December 31, 2000. For
the Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, the issuance of the preferred
stock is reflected in stockholders' equity, however, the issuance of the
preferred stock is eliminated for the Consolidated Financial Statements of
Williams.

     During 1999, each remaining share of Williams (Parent) $3.50 cumulative
convertible preferred stock was converted at the option of the holder into
4.6875 shares of Williams common stock prior to the redemption date.

     During 1999, Williams (Parent) contributed approximately 18.7 million
shares of its previously unissued common stock to a wholly owned subsidiary in
exchange for investments in certain foreign operations which were subsequently
contributed by Williams (Parent) to another wholly owned subsidiary. The
issuance of the common stock was recorded at the May 27, 1999 market value of
$915 million. For the Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, the
issuance of the stock is reflected in stockholders' equity, however, the
issuance of the stock is eliminated for the Consolidated Financial Statements of
Williams.

     See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
the impact on Williams (Parent) of the 1999 issuance of common stock by a
subsidiary.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONCLUDED)
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT)

NOTE 5. DIVIDENDS RECEIVED

     Cash dividends from subsidiaries and companies accounted for on an equity
basis are as follows: 2000 -- $182.3 million; 1999 -- $162.0 million; and
1998 -- $177.5 million.

NOTE 6. GUARANTEES

     See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
Williams' (Parent) guarantees of the residual value of network assets, certain
Williams travel center stores, offshore oil and gas pipelines and an onshore gas
processing plant under lease. In addition, see Notes 14, 15 and 19 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of other guarantees by
Williams (Parent).

NOTE 7. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     See Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
environmental matters related to the assets of Agrico Chemical Company which
were sold in 1987.

NOTE 8. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     On February 26, 2001, Williams (Parent) contributed WCG's outstanding
promissory note of approximately $975 million and certain other assets in
exchange for 24.3 million newly issued shares of WCG. Williams (Parent) is also
evaluating several credit support mechanisms to further enable WCG to obtain the
capital needed to allow it to continue to execute its growth plan and business
strategy.

     In January 2001, Williams (Parent) issued approximately 38 million shares
of common stock in a public offering, at $36.125 per share. Net proceeds from
the offering totaled $1.3 billion and will be used primarily to expand Williams'
capacity to fund its energy-related capital program, repay commercial paper and
other short-term debt and for general corporate purposes.



                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

               SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS*



- ---------------

 *   Restated as described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
     Statements.

(a)  Deducted from related assets.

(b)  Included in liabilities.

(c)  Represents balances written off, net of recoveries and reclassifications.

(d)  Represents payments made.

(e)  Primarily relates to acquisitions of businesses.

(f)  Primarily relates to billing adjustments recorded in revenues.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information regarding the directors and nominees for director of
Williams required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K will be presented under the
heading "Election of Directors" in Williams' Proxy Statement prepared for the
solicitation of proxies in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
Williams for 2001 (the "Proxy Statement"), which information is incorporated by
reference herein. Information regarding the executive officers of Williams is
presented following Item 4 herein as permitted by General Instruction G(3) to
Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K. Information
required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is included under the heading "Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the Proxy
Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K regarding executive
compensation is presented under the headings "Election of Directors" and
"Executive Compensation and Other Information" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the information provided under the headings "Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation" and "Stockholder Return Performance Presentation" in the
Proxy Statement are not incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information regarding the security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is presented under
the headings "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in
the Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information regarding certain relationships and related transactions
required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K is presented under the heading "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) 1 and 2.



     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial
statements and notes thereto.



     (a) 3 and (c).  The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this annual
report.















- ---------------

 * Each such exhibit has heretofore been filed with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission as part of the filing indicated and is incorporated herein by
   reference.

** Williams agrees upon request to furnish each such exhibit to the Securities
   and Exchange Commission. The total amount of the securities authorized under
   each such exhibit does not exceed ten percent of the total assets of Williams
   and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     On October 26, 2000, Williams filed a current report on Form 8-K to report
its unaudited net income for the third quarter that ended September 30, 2000.

     On November 29, 2000, Williams filed a current report on Form 8-K to
announce that its Board of Directors had authorized management to continue to
pursue a tax free spinoff of Williams' communications business to Williams'
shareholders.

     (d) The financial statements of partially-owned companies are not presented
herein since none of them individually, or in the aggregate, constitute a
significant subsidiary.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
                                            (Registrant)

                                            By:    /s/ SUZANNE H. COSTIN
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                      Suzanne H. Costin
                                                       Attorney-in-fact

Date: March 12, 2001

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.









                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS












- ---------------

 * Each such exhibit has heretofore been filed with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission as part of the filing indicated and is incorporated herein by
   reference.

** Williams agrees upon request to furnish each such exhibit to the Securities
   and Exchange Commission. The total amount of the securities authorized under
   each such exhibit does not exceed ten percent of the total assets of Williams
   and its subsidiaries taken as a whole.

