
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END DECEMBER 31, 1999




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

      [X]        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

      [ ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4174

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (918) 573-2000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by
nonaffiliates as of the close of business on March 15, 2000, was approximately
$20 billion.

     The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding at March
15, 2000, was 441,540,962, excluding 6,311,910 shares held by Williams.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement prepared for the solicitation
of proxies in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Williams for
2000 are incorporated by reference in Part III.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                                   FORM 10-K

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(a) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

     The Williams Companies, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State
of Nevada in 1949 and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware
in 1987. The principal executive offices of Williams are located at One Williams
Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172 (telephone (918) 573-2000).

     On December 17, 1999, Williams Energy Services, a wholly owned subsidiary
of Williams, completed the sale of Thermogas L.L.C. to Ferrellgas Partners L.P.
for $443.7 million after Ferrellgas made an unsolicited offer to purchase
Thermogas, the wholly owned subsidiary through which Williams had engaged in the
retail distribution of propane. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

     On October 6, 1999, a subsidiary of Williams, Williams Communications
Group, Inc., closed an initial public offering (IPO) by selling shares of its
Class A Common Stock to the public. In separate private placements, SBC
Communications, Intel Corporation, and Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. each
purchased a portion of the Class A Common Stock. As of March 15, 2000, there
were 68,195,470 shares of the Class A Common Stock outstanding, and Williams
owned 395,434,965 shares of the Class B Common Stock of Williams Communications,
representing an approximate 85.3 percent ownership interest. Holders of the
Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share, and Williams, as holder
of the Class B Common Stock of Williams Communications, is entitled to ten votes
per share.

     On March 28, 1998, Williams acquired MAPCO Inc. in a stock-for-stock
transaction based upon a fixed exchange ratio of 1.665 shares of Williams common
stock and 0.555 associated preferred stock purchase rights for each share of
MAPCO common stock and associated preferred stock purchase rights. See Note 2 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

     See Part II, Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

(c) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

     Williams, through Williams Gas Pipeline Company and Williams Energy
Services and their subsidiaries, engages in the following types of
energy-related activities:

     - transportation and storage of natural gas and related activities through
       operation and ownership of five wholly owned interstate natural gas
       pipelines and several pipeline joint ventures;

     - exploration and production of oil and gas through ownership of 1.05
       Tcfe* of proved natural gas reserves primarily located in New Mexico,
       Wyoming, and Colorado;

     - natural gas gathering, processing, and treating activities through
       ownership and operation of approximately 11,200 miles of gathering lines,
       ten natural gas treating plants, and 12 natural gas processing plants
       (one of which is partially owned);

- ---------------

* The term "Mcf" means thousand cubic feet, "MMcf" means million cubic feet and
  "Bcf" means billion cubic feet. The term "Tcf" means trillion cubic feet. The
  term "Tcfe" means trillion cubic feet equivalent. All volumes of natural gas
  are stated at a pressure base of 14.73 pounds per square inch absolute at 60
  degrees Fahrenheit. The term "Btu" means British Thermal Unit, "MMBtu" means
  one million British Thermal Units and "TBtu" means one trillion British
  Thermal Units. The term "Dth" means dekatherm. The term "MDth" means thousand
  dekatherms. The term "Mbbl" means one thousand barrels. The term "GWh" means
  gigawatt hour. The term "MW" means megawatt.


     - natural gas liquids transportation through ownership and operation of
       approximately 13,360 miles of natural gas liquids pipeline;

     - transportation of petroleum products and related terminal services
       through ownership or operation of approximately 9,170 miles of petroleum
       products pipeline and 75 petroleum products terminals;

     - production and marketing of ethanol and bio-products through operation
       and ownership of two ethanol plants (one of which is partially owned);

     - refining of petroleum products through operation and ownership of two
       refineries;

     - light hydrocarbon/olefin transportation through 300 miles of pipeline in
       Southern Louisiana;

     - ethylene production through a 5/12 interest in a 1.2 billion pound/year
       facility in Geismar, Louisiana;

     - distributed power services;

     - retail marketing through 227 convenience stores and 42 travel centers;
       and

     - energy commodity marketing and trading.

     Williams, through Williams Communications Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries,
engages in the following types of communications-related activities:

     - owner and operator of approximately 26,000 route miles of
       telecommunications fiber optic network;

     - data-, voice-, and video-transmission related products and services;

     - video services and other multimedia services for the broadcast industry;

     - customer-premise voice and data equipment, sales, and services including
       installation, maintenance, and integration; and

     - network integration and management services nationwide.

     Williams, through subsidiaries, also directly invests in energy and
telecommunications projects primarily in Canada, South America, Australia, and
Lithuania and continues to explore and develop additional projects for
international investments. It also invests in energy, telecommunications, and
infrastructure development funds in Asia and Latin America.

     Substantially all operations of Williams are conducted through
subsidiaries. Williams performs certain management, legal, financial, tax,
consultative, administrative, and other services for its subsidiaries and
employs approximately 1,150 employees. Williams' principal sources of cash are
from external financings, dividends and advances from its subsidiaries,
investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered, and interest
payments from subsidiaries on cash advances. The amount of dividends available
to Williams from subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary's earnings
and operating capital requirements. The terms of certain subsidiaries' borrowing
arrangements limit the transfer of funds to Williams.

     On July 31, 1999, Williams completed the merger of Williams Holdings of
Delaware, Inc., its wholly owned subsidiary, with and into itself and assumed
all liabilities and obligations of Williams Holdings of Delaware, Inc.

     To achieve organizational and operating efficiencies, Williams' interstate
natural gas pipelines and pipeline joint venture investments are grouped
together under its wholly owned subsidiary, Williams Gas Pipeline Company. The
other energy operations are grouped into a wholly owned subsidiary, Williams
Energy Services. The communications operations, including investments in
international communications projects, are grouped into a majority owned
subsidiary, Williams Communications Group, Inc. The international energy
operations are grouped into a wholly owned subsidiary, Williams International
Company. Item 1 of this report is formatted to reflect this structure.



                         WILLIAMS GAS PIPELINE COMPANY

     Williams' interstate natural gas pipeline group, comprised of Williams Gas
Pipeline Company and its subsidiaries, owns and operates a combined total of
approximately 27,300 miles of pipelines with a total annual throughput of
approximately 3,700 TBtu of natural gas and peak-day delivery capacity of
approximately 15 Bcf of gas. The gas pipeline group consists of Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line Corporation, Northwest Pipeline Corporation, Kern River Gas
Transmission Company, Texas Gas Transmission Corporation, and Williams Gas
Pipelines Central, Inc. The gas pipeline group also holds minority interests in
joint venture interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline systems.

     Williams' gas pipeline group has combined certain administrative functions,
such as human resources, information services, technical services, and finance,
of its operating companies in an effort to lower costs and increase efficiency.
Although a single management team manages both Northwest Pipeline and Kern River
and a single management team manages both Texas Gas and Central, each of these
operating companies operates as a separate legal entity. Williams' gas pipeline
group employs approximately 3,370 employees.

     The gas pipeline group's transmission and storage activities are subject to
regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) under the Natural
Gas Act of 1938 and under the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA), and, as
such, their rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in
interstate commerce, the extension, enlargement, or abandonment of
jurisdictional facilities, and accounting, among other things, are subject to
regulation. Each gas pipeline company holds certificates of public convenience
and necessity issued by the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of all
pipelines, facilities, and properties considered jurisdictional for which
certificates are required under the Natural Gas Act. Each gas pipeline company
is also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended by
Title I of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, which regulates safety requirements
in the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of interstate natural
gas pipelines.

     As a result of the MAPCO merger in 1998, Williams acquired an approximately
4.8 percent investment interest in Alliance Pipeline. On December 31, 1999,
Williams acquired an additional 9.8 percent interest in Alliance Pipeline.
Alliance consists of two proposed segments, a Canadian segment and a United
States segment. Alliance has filed applications for approval with the FERC in
the United States and the National Energy Board (NEB) in Canada, to construct
and operate an approximately 1,800 mile natural gas pipeline system extending
from northeast British Columbia to the Chicago, Illinois, area market center,
where it will interconnect with the North American pipeline grid. On September
17, 1998, the FERC granted a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity
(CPCN) for the United States portion of the Alliance pipeline, and on December
3, 1998, the NEB granted a CPCN for the Canadian portion. Construction began in
the spring of 1999 with an anticipated in-service date of October 2000. Total
estimated cost of the Alliance pipeline is approximately $3 billion. At December
31, 1999, Williams had invested approximately $131 million in Alliance.

     Buccaneer Gas Pipeline Company, L.L.C., a wholly owned subsidiary of WGP,
announced in March 1999, that it would accept requests for firm transportation
service to be made available on a proposed new natural gas pipeline system
extending from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida. Buccaneer
anticipates that its pipeline system will extend from a point near
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation's Station 82 in Coden, Alabama,
across the Gulf of Mexico to the west coast of Florida just north of Tampa. The
pipeline will continue onshore in an easterly direction to serve power
generation plants and other markets across the central part of the state, and
will terminate in Volusia County, Florida. Lateral pipelines will be constructed
in accordance with market demand. Buccaneer filed for FERC approval of the
project in October 1999. In February 2000, a subsidiary of Duke Energy acquired
a 50 percent ownership interest in Buccaneer. The estimated capital cost of the
project is approximately $1.5 billion, and the target in-service date is April
2002.

     A business description of the principal companies in the interstate natural
gas pipeline group follows.



TRANSCONTINENTAL GAS PIPE LINE CORPORATION

     Transco is an interstate natural gas transportation company that owns a
10,500-mile natural gas pipeline system extending from Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi, and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through Alabama, Georgia, South
Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey to
the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves customers in Texas and
eleven southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major metropolitan
areas in Georgia, North Carolina, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.
Effective May 1, 1995, Transco transferred the operation of certain production
area facilities to Williams Field Services Group, Inc., an affiliated company.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 1999, Transco's system had a mainline delivery capacity of
approximately 3.8 Bcf of gas per day from its production areas to its primary
markets. Using its Leidy Line and market-area storage capacity, Transco can
deliver an additional 2.9 Bcf of gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity
total of approximately 6.7 Bcf of gas per day. Excluding the production area
facilities operated by Williams Field Services Group, Inc., Transco's system is
composed of approximately 7,200 miles of mainline and branch transmission
pipelines, 41 compressor stations, and seven storage locations. Compression
facilities at a sea level-rated capacity total approximately 1.3 million
horsepower.

     Transco's major natural gas transportation customers are public utilities
and municipalities that provide service to residential, commercial, industrial,
and electric generation end users. Shippers on Transco's system include public
utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users,
electrical generators, gas marketers, and producers. No customer accounted for
more than ten percent of Transco's total operating revenues in 1999. Transco's
firm transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with various
expiration dates and account for the major portion of Transco's business.
Additionally, Transco offers interruptible transportation service under shorter
term agreements.

     Transco has gas storage capacity in five underground storage fields located
on or near its system and/or market areas and operates three of these storage
fields and two liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage facilities. The total gas
storage capacity available to Transco and its customers is approximately 220 Bcf
of gas. Storage capacity permits Transco's customers to inject gas into storage
during the summer and off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter demand
periods.

  Expansion Projects

     In 1999, Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC and Cardinal Pipeline Company, LLC,
both of which are owned by wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco and several of
its customers, completed construction of, and placed into service, two major
projects, a LNG storage facility and the Cardinal Pipeline Project (Cardinal),
respectively. Transco contributed $19 million to the total cost of the LNG
storage facility which is located in Guilford County, North Carolina. The
facility was placed into service in May 1999 and has 4 Bcf of storage capacity
and 400 MMcf per day of withdrawal capacity. Wholly owned subsidiaries of
Transco operate the facility and have a 35 percent ownership interest. On
November 1, 1999, Cardinal Pipeline Company, LLC, a North Carolina limited
liability company formed between wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco and three
of Transco's North Carolina customers, placed Cardinal into service. Transco
contributed $24 million to the total cost of this project which involved the
acquisition of an existing 37-mile pipeline in North Carolina and construction
of an approximately 67-mile extension of the pipeline to new interconnections
near Clayton County, North Carolina. This pipeline provides transportation
service of up to 270 MMcf per day of natural gas. Transco's wholly-owned
subsidiary has a 45 percent ownership interest in Cardinal and a separate
wholly-owned subsidiary of Transco is the operator of Cardinal.

     In 1999, Cumberland Gas Pipeline Company, a partnership between
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Transco and AGL Resources Inc., decided not to
pursue its pipeline project at this time. In lieu of the project, Transco
intends to expand the capacity of its North Georgia extension as part of the
SouthCoast Expansion Project (see below) to meet the firm transportation service
requirements of its shippers.

     On May 13, 1998, Transco filed an application with the FERC for approval to
construct and operate mainline and Leidy Line facilities (MarketLink) to create
an additional 676 MMcf of firm transportation capacity per day to serve
increased demand in the mid-Atlantic and south Atlantic regions of the United



States by a targeted in-service date of November 1, 2000. The estimated cost of
the proposed facilities is $529 million. On December 17, 1999, the FERC issued
an interim order giving Transco conditional approval for MarketLink, along with
the Independence Pipeline Project, which is described below, and ANR Pipeline
Company's Supply Link Project but withholding final certificate authorization
until Independence Pipeline Company (Independence) and ANR Pipeline Company
(ANR) file long-term, executed contracts with nonaffiliated shippers for at
least 35 percent of the capacity of their respective projects. While the FERC
has treated the three projects as interrelated, should Independence and ANR fail
to meet the executed contract conditions, the interim order states that Transco
may amend its MarketLink project to go forward on a stand-alone basis. Once
construction begins, the order also imposed a number of additional environmental
conditions, beyond those recommended in the Final Environmental Impact
Statement. Transco has filed for rehearing of the interim order.

     In March 1997, as amended in December 1997, Independence filed an
application with FERC for approval to construct and operate a new pipeline
consisting of approximately 400 miles of 36-inch pipe from ANR Pipeline
Company's existing compressor station at Defiance, Ohio to Transco's facilities
at Leidy, Pennsylvania. The Independence Pipeline Project is proposed to provide
approximately 916 MMcf per day of firm transportation capacity by a requested
in-service date of November 2000. Independence is owned equally by wholly-owned
subsidiaries of Transco, ANR, and National Fuel Gas Company. The estimated cost
of the project is $678 million, and Transco's equity contributions are estimated
to be approximately $68 million based on its expected one-third ownership
interest in the project. As mentioned above in connection with the MarketLink
Project, on December 17, 1999 the FERC gave conditional approval for the
Independence Pipeline project, subject to Independence filing long-term,
executed contracts with nonaffiliated shippers for at least 35 percent of the
capacity of the project. Also, the FERC imposed a number of additional
environmental conditions once construction begins on the project. Independence
has filed for rehearing of the interim order.

     In April 1999, Transco filed an application with the FERC for its approval
of the SouthCoast Expansion Project, which is designed to create approximately
200 MMcf per day of additional firm transportation capacity on Transco's system
from the terminus of Transco's existing Mobile Bay Lateral in Choctaw County,
Alabama, to delivery points in Transco's Rate Zone 4 (Alabama and Georgia). The
project has a target in-service date of November 1, 2000 and an estimated cost
of approximately $108 million.

     In April 1999, Transco announced its Sundance Expansion Project, which
would create approximately 228 MMcf per day of additional firm transportation
capacity from Transco's Station 65 in Louisiana to delivery points in Georgia,
South Carolina and North Carolina. Transco plans to file for FERC approval of
the project in the first quarter of 2000. The project has a target in-service
date of May 2002 and an estimated cost of approximately $129 million.

     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtu):



     Transco's facilities are divided into seven rate zones. Four are located in
the production area, and three are located in the market area. Long-haul
transportation involves gas that Transco receives in one of the production-area
zones and delivers in a market-area zone. Market-area transportation involves
gas that Transco both receives and delivers within the market-area zones.
Production-area transportation involves gas that Transco both receives and
delivers within the production-area zones.



NORTHWEST PIPELINE CORPORATION

     Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transportation company that
owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from the San Juan
Basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado through Colorado,
Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington to a point on the Canadian border
near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides services for markets in
California, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and
Washington directly or indirectly through interconnections with other pipelines.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 1999, Northwest Pipeline's system, having a mainline
delivery capacity of approximately 2.9 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of
approximately 3,900 miles of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and 41
compressor stations having sea level-rated capacity of approximately 318,000
horsepower.

     In 1999, Northwest Pipeline transported natural gas for a total of 156
customers. Transportation customers include distribution companies,
municipalities, interstate and intrastate pipelines, gas marketers, and direct
industrial users. The two largest customers of Northwest Pipeline in 1999
accounted for approximately 15.2 percent and 13.6 percent, respectively, of its
total operating revenues. No other customer accounted for more than ten percent
of total operating revenues in 1999. Northwest Pipeline's firm transportation
agreements are generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and
account for the major portion of Northwest Pipeline's business. Additionally,
Northwest Pipeline offers interruptible transportation service under shorter
term agreements.

     As a part of its transportation services, Northwest Pipeline utilizes
underground storage facilities in Utah and Washington enabling it to balance
daily receipts and deliveries. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates a LNG
storage facility in Washington that provides a needle-peaking service for its
system. These storage facilities have an aggregate delivery capacity of
approximately 1,325 MMcf of gas per day.

  Expansion Projects

     The Columbia Gorge project provides firm transportation between a
Stanfield, Washington, receipt point and a delivery point near Sumas,
Washington, to serve the markets of BC Gas Utility Ltd. (a major gas distributor
in lower British Columbia). Northwest Pipeline completed and placed into service
on November 1, 1999, the first phase of 50,000 Dth per day. Total cost to
complete the first phase was approximately $16 million.

     Northwest Pipeline owns a one-third interest in the Jackson Prairie storage
facility located in the state of Washington. In March 1998, Northwest Pipeline
filed for certificate authority to realign authorized storage capacity for
system balancing by replacing 3.04 Bcf of existing firm storage capacity at the
Clay Basin storage facility located in eastern Utah (and 25.3 MMcf per day of
associated firm deliverability) with 1.067 Bcf of Jackson Prairie expansion
capacity (and 100 MMcf per day of associated firm deliverability). The FERC
order authorizing expansion of the Jackson Prairie storage facility was received
and accepted the last week of September 1998. The project was placed in service
on November 1, 1999. The total cost of Northwest Pipeline's share of the
expansion project was approximately $10 million.

     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtu):





KERN RIVER GAS TRANSMISSION COMPANY

     Kern River is an interstate natural gas transportation company that owns
and operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from Wyoming through Utah
and Nevada to California. Gas transported on the Kern River pipeline is used in
enhanced oil recovery operations in the heavy oil fields and other markets in
California. Gas is also transported to other natural gas consumers in Utah,
southern Nevada and southern California for use in the production of
electricity, cogeneration of electricity and steam and other applications. The
system commenced operations in February 1992.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 1999, Kern River's system was composed of approximately 707
miles of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and five compressor stations
having a mainline designed delivery capacity of approximately 700 MMcf of gas
per day. The pipeline system interconnects with the pipeline facilities of
another pipeline company at Daggett, California. From the point of
interconnection, Kern River and the other pipeline company have a common
219-mile pipeline which is owned 63.6 percent by Kern River and 36.4 percent by
the other pipeline company, as tenants in common, and is designed to accommodate
the combined throughput of both systems. This common facility has a designed
delivery capacity of 1.1 Bcf of gas per day.

     In 1999, Kern River transported natural gas for customers in California,
Nevada, and Utah. Kern River transported gas for use in enhanced oil recovery
operations in the heavy oil fields in California and transported to other
natural gas consumers in Utah, southern Nevada, and southern California for use
in the production of electricity, cogeneration of electricity and steam and
other applications. The three largest customers of Kern River in 1999 accounted
for approximately 18 percent, 14 percent and 13 percent, respectively, of its
total operating revenues. No other customer accounted for more than ten percent
of total operating revenues in 1999. Kern River transports natural gas for
customers under firm long-term transportation agreements totaling 696 MMcf of
gas per day.

     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtu):



TEXAS GAS TRANSMISSION CORPORATION

     Texas Gas is an interstate natural gas transportation company that owns and
operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from the Louisiana Gulf Coast
area and eastern Texas and running generally north and east through Louisiana,
Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Indiana to Ohio, with smaller
diameter lines extending into Illinois. Texas Gas's direct market area
encompasses eight states in the South and Midwest, and includes the Memphis,
Tennessee; Louisville, Kentucky; Cincinnati and Dayton, Ohio; and Indianapolis,
Indiana, metropolitan areas. Texas Gas also has indirect market access to the
Northeast through interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 1999, Texas Gas' system, having a mainline delivery
capacity of approximately 2.8 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of approximately
5,900 miles of mainline and branch transmission pipelines and 32 compressor
stations having a sea level-rated capacity totaling approximately 555,000
horsepower.

     In 1999 Texas Gas transported natural gas to customers in Louisiana,
Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana, Illinois, and Ohio, and
indirectly to customers in the Northeast. Texas Gas transported gas for 98
distribution companies and municipalities for resale to residential, commercial,
and industrial end users.



Texas Gas provided transportation services to approximately 18 industrial
customers located along its system. At December 31, 1999, Texas Gas had
transportation contracts with approximately 570 shippers. Transportation
shippers include distribution companies, municipalities, intrastate pipelines,
direct industrial users, electrical generators, gas marketers, and producers.
The largest customer of Texas Gas in 1999 accounted for approximately 13.4
percent of its total operating revenues. No other customer accounted for more
than ten percent of total operating revenues in 1999. Texas Gas' firm
transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with various
expiration dates and account for the major portion of Texas Gas's business.
Additionally, Texas Gas offers interruptible transportation and storage services
under agreements that are generally short-term.

     Texas Gas owns and operates gas storage reservoirs in ten underground
storage fields located on or near its system or market areas. The storage
capacity of Texas Gas' certificated storage fields is approximately 177 Bcf of
gas. Texas Gas' storage gas is used in part to meet operational balancing needs
on its system, to meet the requirements of Texas Gas' firm and interruptible
storage customers, and to meet the requirements of Texas Gas' no-notice
transportation service, which allows Texas Gas' customers to temporarily draw
from Texas Gas' storage gas to be repaid in-kind during the following summer
season. A large portion of the gas delivered by Texas Gas to its market area is
used for space heating, resulting in substantially higher daily requirements
during winter months.

     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtu):



WILLIAMS GAS PIPELINES CENTRAL, INC.

     Central, is an interstate natural gas transportation company that owns and
operates a natural gas pipeline system located in Colorado, Kansas, Missouri,
Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas, and Wyoming. The system serves customers in seven
states, including major metropolitan areas in Kansas and Missouri, its chief
market areas.

  Pipeline System and Customers

     At December 31, 1999, Central's system, having a mainline delivery capacity
of approximately 2 Bcf of gas per day, was composed of approximately 6,000 miles
of mainline and branch transmission and storage pipelines and 44 compressor
stations having a sea level-rated capacity totaling approximately 234,000
horsepower.

     In 1999, Central transported natural gas to customers in Colorado, Kansas,
Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Texas, and Wyoming. Central transported gas for 73
distribution companies and municipalities for resale to residential, commercial,
and industrial end users in approximately 530 cities and towns. Central provided
transportation services to approximately 283 industrial customers, federal and
state institutions, and agricultural processing plants located principally in
Kansas, Missouri, and Oklahoma. At December 31, 1999, Central had transportation
contracts with approximately 166 shippers. Transportation shippers include
distribution companies, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial
users, electrical generators, gas marketers, and producers.

     In 1999, approximately 61 percent of Central's total operating revenues
were generated from gas transportation services to Central's two largest
customers, Kansas Gas Service Company, a division of Oneok, Inc. (approximately
31 percent), and Missouri Gas Energy Company (approximately 30 percent). Kansas
Gas Service Company sells or resells gas to residential, commercial, and
industrial customers principally in certain major metropolitan areas of Kansas.
Missouri Gas Energy sells or resells gas to residential, commercial, and
industrial customers principally in certain major metropolitan areas of
Missouri. No other customer accounted for more than ten percent of operating
revenues in 1999.



     Central's firm transportation agreements have various expiration dates
ranging from one to 20 years, with the majority expiring in three to eight
years. Additionally, Central offers interruptible transportation services under
shorter term agreements.

     Central operates eight underground storage fields with an aggregate gas
storage capacity of approximately 43 Bcf and an aggregate delivery capacity of
approximately 1.2 Bcf of gas per day. Central's customers inject gas into these
fields when demand is low and withdraw it to supply their peak requirements.
During periods of peak demand, approximately two-thirds of the firm gas
delivered to customers is supplied from these storage fields. Storage capacity
enables Central's system to operate more uniformly and efficiently during the
year.

     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes transportation data
for the periods indicated (in TBtu):



REGULATORY MATTERS

     Each interstate natural gas pipeline company has various regulatory
proceedings pending. Each company establishes its rates primarily through the
FERC's ratemaking process. Key determinants in the ratemaking process are (1)
costs of providing service, including depreciation expense, (2) allowed rate of
return, including the equity component of the capital structure and related
income taxes, and (3) volume throughput assumptions. The FERC determines the
allowed rate of return in each rate case. Rate design and the allocation of
costs between the demand and commodity rates also impact profitability. As a
result of these proceedings, the pipeline companies have collected a portion of
their revenues subject to refund. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for the amount accrued for potential refund at December 31, 1999.

     Each of the interstate natural gas pipeline companies that were formerly
gas supply merchants have undertaken the reformation of its respective gas
supply contracts. None of the pipeline companies have any significant pending
supplier take-or-pay, ratable-take, or minimum-take claims. In 1999, Central
paid various parties amounts that had been accrued in 1998 to resolve its three
remaining gas supply contracts. For information on outstanding issues with
respect to contract reformation, gas purchase deficiencies, and related
regulatory issues, see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

COMPETITION

     The FERC continues to regulate each of Williams' interstate natural gas
pipeline companies pursuant to the Natural Gas Act and the NGPA. However,
competition for natural gas transportation has intensified in recent years due
to customer access to other pipelines, rate competitiveness among pipelines,
customers' desire to have more than one transporter, and regulatory
developments. Future utilization of pipeline capacity will depend on competition
from other pipelines, use of alternative fuels, the general level of natural gas
demand, and weather conditions. Electricity and distillate fuel oil are the
primary competitive forms of energy for residential and commercial markets. Coal
and residual fuel oil compete for industrial and electric generation markets.
Nuclear and hydroelectric power and power purchased from electric transmission
grid arrangements among electric utilities also compete with gas-fired electric
generation in certain markets.

     Suppliers of natural gas are able to compete for any gas markets capable of
being served by pipelines using nondiscriminatory transportation services
provided by the pipeline companies. As the regulated environment has matured,
many pipeline companies have faced reduced levels of subscribed capacity as
contractual terms expire and customers opt to reduce firm capacity under
contract in favor of alternative sources of transmission and related services.
This situation, known in the industry as "capacity turnback," is forcing the
pipeline companies to evaluate the consequences of major demand reductions in
traditional long-term contracts. It could also result in significant shifts in
system utilization, and possible realignment of cost



structure for remaining customers since all interstate natural gas pipeline
companies continue to be authorized to charge maximum rates approved by the FERC
on a cost of service basis.

     Williams is aware that several state jurisdictions have been involved in
implementing changes similar to the changes that have occurred at the federal
level. States, including New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Georgia,
and Delaware, are currently in the process of finalizing regulations for their
respective local distribution companies. Management expects these regulations to
encourage greater competition in the natural gas marketplace.

OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY

     Each of Williams' interstate natural gas pipeline companies generally owns
its facilities in fee, with certain portions, such as certain offshore
facilities, being held jointly with third parties. However, a substantial
portion of each pipeline company's facilities is constructed and maintained
pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses, or consents on and
across properties owned by others. Compressor stations, with appurtenant
facilities, are located in whole or in part either on lands owned or on sites
held under leases or permits issued or approved by public authorities. The
storage facilities are either owned or contracted under long-term leases or
easements.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Each interstate natural gas pipeline is subject to the National
Environmental Policy Act and federal, state, and local laws and regulations
relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that, with
respect to any capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses
required to meet applicable environmental standards and regulations, the FERC
would grant the requisite rate relief so that, for the most part, the pipeline
companies could recover these expenditures in their rates. For this reason,
management believes that compliance with applicable environmental requirements
by the interstate pipeline companies is not likely to have a material effect
upon Williams' earnings or competitive position.

     For a discussion of specific environmental issues involving the interstate
pipelines, including estimated cleanup costs associated with certain pipeline
activities, see "Environmental" under Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations and "Environmental matters" in
Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                            WILLIAMS ENERGY SERVICES

     Williams Energy is comprised of four major business units: Exploration &
Production, Midstream Gas & Liquids, Petroleum Services, and Energy Marketing &
Trading. Through its business units, Williams Energy engages in energy
production and exploration activities; natural gas gathering, processing, and
treating; natural gas liquids transportation, fractionation, and storage;
petroleum products transportation and terminal services; ethanol production;
refining; ethylene production; light hydrocarbon/olefin transportation;
convenience store retailing; and energy commodity marketing and trading.

     Williams Energy, through its subsidiaries, owns 1.05 Tcfe of proved natural
gas reserves located primarily in New Mexico, Wyoming and Colorado, and owns or
operates approximately 11,200 miles of gathering pipelines (including certain
gathering lines owned by Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation but operated
by Midstream Gas & Liquids), approximately 13,360 miles of natural gas liquids
pipelines, ten natural gas treating plants, 12 natural gas processing plants
(one of which is partially owned), 75 petroleum products terminals, two ethanol
production facilities (one of which is partially owned), two refineries, 269
convenience stores/travel centers, and approximately 9,170 miles of petroleum
products pipeline. Physical and notional volumes marketed and traded by
subsidiaries of Williams Energy approximated 18,889 TBtu equivalents in 1999.
Williams Energy, through its subsidiaries, employs approximately 7,760
employees.

     Segment revenues and segment profit for Williams Energy are reported in
Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements herein.



     A business description of each of Williams Energy's business units follows.

EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION

     Williams Energy, through its wholly owned subsidiary Williams Production
Company in its Exploration & Production unit (E&P), owns and operates producing
natural gas leasehold properties in the United States. In addition, E&P is
exploring for oil and natural gas.

     Oil and gas properties. E&P's properties are located primarily in the Rocky
Mountains and Gulf Coast areas. Rocky Mountain properties are located in New
Mexico, Wyoming, Colorado, and Utah. Gulf Coast properties are located in
Louisiana, and east and south Texas.

     Gas Reserves. At December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, E&P had proved
developed natural gas reserves of 548 Bcf, 476 Bcf, and 362 Bcf, respectively,
and proved undeveloped reserves of 504 Bcf, 232 Bcf, and 238 Bcf, respectively.
Of E&P's total proved reserves, 78 percent are located in the San Juan Basin of
Colorado and New Mexico, and 17 percent are located in Wyoming. No major
discovery or other favorable or adverse event has caused a significant change in
estimated gas reserves since year end.

     Customers and Operations. At December 31, 1999, the gross and net developed
leasehold acres owned by E&P totaled 277,544 and 118,892, respectively, and the
gross and net undeveloped acres owned were 322,713 and 106,613 respectively. At
December 31, 1999, E&P owned interests in 3,676 gross producing wells (731 net)
on its leasehold lands.

     Operating Statistics. The following tables summarize drilling activity for
the periods indicated:





     The majority of E&P's gas production is currently being sold in the spot
market at market prices. Total net production sold during 1999, 1998, and 1997
was 57.9 Bcf, 43.2 Bcf, and 37.1 Bcf, respectively. The average production
costs, including production taxes, per Mcf of gas produced were $.46, $.37, and
$.42, in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. The average wellhead sales price
per Mcf was $1.48, $1.31, and $1.62, respectively, for the same periods.

     In 1993 E&P conveyed a net profits interest in certain of its properties to
the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust. Williams subsequently sold Trust Units
to the public in an underwritten public offering. Williams owns 3,568,791 Trust
Units representing 36.8 percent of outstanding Units. Substantially all of the
production attributable to the properties conveyed to the Trust was from the
Fruitland coal formation and constituted coal seam gas. Production information
reported herein includes E&P's interest in these Units.

MIDSTREAM GAS & LIQUIDS

     Williams Energy, through Williams Field Services Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries, Williams Natural Gas Liquids, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and
Williams Midstream Natural Gas Liquids, Inc. (collectively Midstream Gas &
Liquids), owns and operates natural gas gathering, processing and treating, and
natural gas liquids transportation, fractionation, and storage facilities in
northwestern New Mexico, southwestern Colorado,



southwestern Wyoming, eastern Utah, northwestern Oklahoma, Kansas, northern
Missouri, eastern Nebraska, Iowa, southern Minnesota, Tennessee, and also in
areas offshore and onshore in Texas, Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
Midstream Gas & Liquids also operates gathering facilities, owned by
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, an affiliated interstate natural gas
pipeline company, that are currently regulated by the FERC.

     Expansion Projects. During 1999 Midstream Gas & Liquids continued to expand
its operations in the Gulf Coast region through the Mobile Bay projects. The
Mobile Bay processing plant was completed in the second quarter of 1999.
Contracts are currently in place to supply approximately 70 percent of the
processing plant's 600 MMcf per day of capacity. Liquids from this plant are
handled by three separate joint ventures including: Tri-States Pipeline, a 16.7
percent owned system with a capacity of 95,000 bbl per day; Wilprise Pipeline, a
37.3 percent owned system with capacity of 60,000 bbl per day; and a 31.6
percent owned fractionation facility with a capacity of 60,000 bbl per day.

     In the fourth quarter of 1999, Midstream Gas & Liquids completed
construction on an expansion of its Rocky Mountain natural gas liquids pipeline
which increased capacity from 75,000 bbl per day to 125,000 bbl per day through
construction of a 412-mile pipeline parallel to the existing Mid-America
Pipeline System.

     Customers and Operations. Facilities owned and/or operated by Midstream Gas
& Liquids consist of approximately 11,200 miles of gathering pipelines
(including certain gathering lines owned by Transco but operated by Midstream
Gas & Liquids), ten natural gas treating plants, 12 natural gas processing
plants (one of which is partially owned), and approximately 13,360 miles of
natural gas liquids pipeline, of which approximately 4,418 miles are partially
owned. The aggregate daily inlet capacity is approximately 8 Bcf for the
gathering systems and 7.3 Bcf for the gas processing, treating, and dehydration
facilities. Midstream Gas & Liquids' pipeline operations provide customers with
one of the nation's largest natural gas liquids transportation systems, while
gathering and processing customers have direct access to interstate pipelines,
including affiliated pipelines, which provide access to multiple markets.

     During 1999 Midstream Gas & Liquids gathered gas for 308 customers,
processed gas for 126 customers, and provided transportation to 82 customers.
The largest customer accounted for approximately 15 percent of total gathered
volumes, and the two largest processing customers accounted for 17 percent and
11 percent, respectively, of processed volumes. The two largest transportation
customers accounted for 18 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of
transportation volumes. No other customer accounted for more than ten percent of
gathered, processed, or transported volumes. Midstream Gas & Liquids' gathering
and processing agreements with large customers are generally long-term
agreements with various expiration dates. These long-term agreements account for
the majority of the gas gathered and processed by Midstream Gas & Liquids. The
natural gas liquids transportation contracts are tariff-based and generally
short-term in nature with some long-term contracts for system-connected
processing plants.

     Acquisitions.  On March 31, 1999, Williams acquired Union Texas
Petrochemical, Inc. from Atlantic Richfield Company for $163 million. In
addition to a 5/12 interest in an olefin plant located near Geismar, La.,
operated by the Petroleum Services segment, the acquisition included several NGL
transportation and storage assets in Louisiana, including a 215-mile ethane
transportation system and partial ownership in an 85-mile olefin pipeline and
storage network, which connects, either directly or indirectly, most major
natural gas liquids producers and olefin consumers in Louisiana.

     On April 1, 1999, Midstream purchased a 10 million barrel underground
storage facility from Koch Industries. The facility is located west of
McPherson, Kansas, and consists of 85 underground NGL storage wells. In
addition, the purchase included loading/unloading facilities to accommodate 20
tank railcars and three tanker trucks.

     On May 1, 1999, Midstream acquired a 20 percent ownership interest in the
West Texas LPG Pipeline Limited Partnership, which owns and operates the West
Texas LPG Pipeline. Under terms of the agreement, Williams contributed a portion
of its NGL gathering system located in southeastern New Mexico and western
Texas, near Hobbs, Texas, to the partnership.



     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes gathering, processing,
natural gas liquid sales, and transportation volumes for the periods indicated.
The information includes operations attributed to facilities owned by Transco
but operated by Midstream Gas & Liquids.



PETROLEUM SERVICES

     Williams Energy, through wholly owned subsidiaries in its Petroleum
Services unit, owns and operates a petroleum products pipeline system, two
ethanol production plants (one of which is majority owned), and petroleum
products terminals and provides services and markets products related thereto.
Included in this business unit are two refineries, 269 convenience stores/travel
centers, trucking and rail operations for propane and refined products, and
mobile information management systems.

     Transportation. A subsidiary in the Petroleum Services unit, Williams Pipe
Line Company, owns and operates a petroleum products pipeline system that covers
an 11-state area extending from Oklahoma to North Dakota, Minnesota and
Illinois. The system is operated as a common carrier offering transportation and
terminalling services on a nondiscriminatory basis under published tariffs. The
system transports refined products and liquified petroleum gases.

     At December 31, 1999, the system traverses approximately 7,100 miles of
right-of-way and includes approximately 9,170 miles of pipeline in various sizes
up to 16 inches in diameter. The system includes 77 pumping stations, 22.4
million barrels of storage capacity, and 40 delivery terminals. The terminals
are equipped to deliver refined products into tank trucks and tank rail cars.
The maximum number of barrels that the system can transport per day depends upon
the operating balance achieved at a given time between various segments of the
system. Because the balance is dependent upon the mix of products to be shipped
and the demand levels at the various delivery points, the exact capacity of the
system cannot be stated. In 1999 total system shipments averaged 610 thousand
barrels per day.

     The operating statistics set forth below relate to the system's operations
for the periods indicated:



     Williams Pipe Line and a subsidiary of Williams Pipe Line, Longhorn
Enterprises of Texas, Inc. (LETI), own a total 31.5 percent interest in Longhorn
Partners Pipeline, LP, a joint venture formed to construct and operate a refined
products pipeline from Houston to El Paso, Texas. Pipeline construction is
complete, and operations are expected to commence in 2000, pending review and
approval of an environmental assessment. Williams Pipe Line has designed and
constructed and will operate the pipeline, and Williams Pipe Line and LETI have
contributed a total of $95.8 million to the joint venture.


     Olefins. In the first quarter of 1999, Williams Energy purchased Union
Texas Petrochemicals Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of ARCO, for $163
million. UTP's assets include a 215-mile light hydrocarbon transportation and
partial ownership in an 85-mile olefin pipeline and storage network, which
connects, either directly or indirectly, most major natural gas liquids
producers and olefin consumers in Louisiana. UTP also is the leading merchant
marketer of ethylene in Louisiana and owns and operates a 5/12 interest in a 1.2
billion pounds per year ethylene plant near Geismar, Louisiana. In connection
with the acquisition, the Energy Marketing & Trading unit entered into a
financial agreement, backed by an A credit-rated third party to manage the risks
related to the earnings volatility typically associated with ethylene
production.

     Terminal Services and Development. Williams Energy, through its wholly
owned subsidiary Williams Energy Ventures (WEV), provides independent terminal
services to the refining and marketing industries via distribution of petroleum
products through wholly owned and joint interest terminals. WEV owns and/or
operates 32 strategically located independent terminals covering a 14-state area
in the South, Southeast, Southwest, and Midwest.

     The terminals are supplied with refined products and ethanol by barge,
tanker, truck, rail, and various common carrier pipelines. WEV provides
scheduling and inventory management, access to an expanded transportation and
information services network, additive injection services, and custom
terminalling services such as octane and oxygenate blending. On a selective
basis, WEV provides temporary leased storage.

     In early 1999 WEV purchased 12 terminals in the Southeast from Amoco and
three Gulf Coast area terminals from Amerada Hess.

     Terminal barrels delivered for the periods indicated are noted below.



     Bio-Energy. WEV, doing business as Williams Bio-Energy, is engaged in the
production and marketing of ethanol. Williams Bio-Energy owns and operates two
ethanol plants for which corn is the principal feedstock. The Pekin, Illinois,
plant has an annual production capacity of 100 million gallons of fuel-grade and
industrial ethanol and also produces various coproducts and Bio-Products. The
Aurora, Nebraska, plant (in which WEV owns a 74.9 percent interest) has an
annual production capacity of 30 million gallons. Williams Bio-Products also
markets ethanol produced by third parties. Bio-Products, mainly flavor
enhancers, produced at the Pekin plant are marketed primarily to food processing
companies.

     The sales volumes set forth below include ethanol produced by third parties
as well as by WEV for the periods indicated:



     Distribution Services. Petroleum Services, through its distribution
services group, provides petroleum trucking, and rail car operations for
Williams Energy and third parties. The petroleum trucking operation, operated
out of Memphis, Tennessee, under the name "GENI Transport," works with local
jobbers to supply their retail outlets and with several of Williams Energy's
Energy Marketing & Trading unit's wholesale customers to develop transportation
arrangements. GENI Transport is also the primary transportation provider to
Petroleum Services' retail petroleum group.

     Refining. Petroleum Services, through its subsidiaries, owns and operates
two refineries: the North Pole, Alaska, refinery and the Memphis, Tennessee,
refinery. The financial results of the North Pole refinery and the Memphis
refinery may be significantly impacted by changes in market prices for crude oil
and refined products. Petroleum Services cannot predict the future of crude oil
and product prices or their impact on its financial results.

     North Pole Refinery. The North Pole Refinery includes the refinery located
at North Pole, Alaska, and a terminal facility at Anchorage, Alaska. The
refinery, the largest in the state, is located approximately two



miles from its supply point for crude oil, the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System
(TAPS). The refinery's processing capability is approximately 215,000 barrels
per day. At maximum crude throughput, the refinery can produce 67,000 barrels
per day of refined products. These products are jet fuel, gasoline, diesel fuel,
heating oil, fuel oil, naphtha, and asphalt. Williams Energy's Energy Marketing
& Trading unit markets these refined products in Alaska, Western Canada, and the
Pacific Rim principally to wholesale, commercial, industrial, and governmental
customers and Petroleum Services' retail petroleum group. Petroleum Services
completed construction of a third crude unit at the refinery in October 1998
that can produce an additional 17,000 barrels per day of refined products,
including 14,000 barrels per day of jet fuel. The new crude unit was completed
at a cost of $75 million.

     Average daily throughput and barrels processed and transferred by the North
Pole Refinery per day are noted below:



     The North Pole Refinery's crude oil is purchased through Williams Energy's
Energy Marketing & Trading unit from the state of Alaska or is purchased or
received on exchanges from crude oil producers. The refinery has two long-term
agreements with the state of Alaska for the purchase of royalty oil, both of
which are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2003. The agreements provide for
the purchase of up to 63,000 barrels per day (approximately 29 percent of the
refinery's supply) of the state's royalty share of crude oil produced from
Prudhoe Bay, Alaska. These volumes, along with crude oil either purchased from
crude oil producers or received under exchange agreements or other short-term
supply agreements with the state of Alaska, are utilized as throughput in the
production of products at the refinery. Approximately 34 percent of the
throughput is refined and sold as finished product and the remainder of the
throughput is returned to the TAPS and either delivered to repay exchange
obligations or sold.

     Memphis Refinery. The Memphis Refinery, which includes three petroleum
products terminals, two of which were acquired in 1999 from Truman Arnold
Companies, is the only refinery in the state of Tennessee and has a throughput
capacity of approximately 160,000 barrels per day. During June 1999, the
refinery's alkylation unit was expanded approximately 4,000 barrels per day to
12,000 barrels per day. In November 1999, the refinery commissioned an expansion
of its East Crude Unit increasing crude production capacity by approximately
20,000 barrels per day to 160,000 barrels per day. During the same time period,
the refinery's fluid catalytic cracking unit was expanded by approximately 5,000
barrels per day to 70,000 barrels per day. Williams Energy is also constructing
a 36,000 barrels per day continuous catalyst regeneration reformer, slated for
completion in May 2000. The reformer will enable the refinery to produce 100
percent of customer demand for premium gasoline in the mid-South region of the
United States.

     The Memphis Refinery produces gasoline, low sulfur diesel fuel, jet fuel,
K-1 kerosene, refinery-grade propylene, No. 6 fuel oil, propane, and elemental
sulfur. These products are exchanged or marketed primarily in the Mid-South
region of the United States by Williams Energy's Energy Marketing & Trading unit
to wholesale customers, such as industrial and commercial consumers, jobbers,
independent dealers, other refiner/marketers, and to Petroleum Services' retail
petroleum group.

     The Memphis Refinery has access to crude oil from the Gulf Coast via common
carrier pipeline and by river barges. In addition to domestic crude oil, the
Memphis Refinery has the capability of receiving and processing certain foreign
crudes.

     Average daily barrels processed and transferred by the Memphis Refinery are
noted below:



     Retail Petroleum. Petroleum Services, primarily under the brand names
"Williams TravelCenters" and "MAPCO Express," is engaged in the retail marketing
of gasoline, diesel fuel, other petroleum products,



convenience merchandise, and restaurant and fast food items. The retail
petroleum group operates 42 interstate TravelCenter locations and 227
convenience stores. The TravelCenter sites consist of 27 modern facilities
providing gasoline and diesel fuel, merchandise, and restaurant offerings for
both traveling consumers and professional drivers, and 15 locations providing
fuel and merchandise. The convenience store sites are primarily concentrated in
the vicinities of Nashville and Memphis, Tennessee, and the state of Alaska. All
of the motor fuel sold by Williams TravelCenters and MAPCO Express stores is
supplied either by exchanges, directly from either the Memphis or North Pole
Refineries or through Williams Energy's Energy Marketing & Trading unit.

     Convenience merchandise, restaurants, and fast food accounted for
approximately 57 percent of the retail petroleum group's gross margins in 1999
and in 1998. Gasoline and diesel sales volumes for the periods indicated are
noted below:



     Williams Energy intends to construct up to 25 new travel centers in 2000,
the majority of which are expected to open in the third and fourth quarters of
2000.

ENERGY MARKETING & TRADING

     Williams Energy, through subsidiaries, primarily Williams Energy Marketing
& Trading Company and its subsidiaries (EM&T), is a national energy services
provider that buys, sells, and transports a full suite of energy commodities,
including natural gas, electricity, refined products, natural gas liquids, crude
oil, propane, liquefied natural gas, and liquified petroleum gas, primarily on a
wholesale level, serving over 4,000 customers. The number of customers has
declined from approximately 300,000 in 1998 due to the sale of EM&T's retail
propane marketing business in December 1999. In addition, EM&T provides
price-risk management services through a variety of financial instruments
including exchange-traded futures, as well as over-the-counter forwards,
options, and swap agreements related to various energy commodities. See Note 18
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on financial
instruments.

     EM&T markets natural gas throughout North America and increased its total
volumes (physical and notional) to an average of 34.1 Bcf per day in 1999.
EM&T's core business has traditionally been natural gas marketing in the Gulf
Coast and Eastern regions of the United States, using the pipeline systems owned
by Williams, but also includes marketing on approximately 70 non-Williams'
pipelines. EM&T's natural gas customers include producers, industrials, local
distribution companies, utilities, and other gas marketers.

     During 1999, EM&T marketed 285,413 GWh (physical and notional) of
electricity. As part of its electricity supply portfolio, EM&T has entered into
a number of long-term agreements (15-20 years) to market capacity of electricity
generating facilities, either existing or to be constructed at various locations
throughout the country totaling approximately 8,800 MW (including
Alabama -- approximately 850 MW, California -- approximately 4,000 MW,
Louisiana -- approximately 750 MW, New Jersey -- approximately 750 MW, and
Pennsylvania -- approximately 650 MW). Under these arrangements, EM&T supplies
fuel for conversion to electricity and markets capacity, energy, and ancillary
services, related to the generating facilities owned and operated by various
counterparties. Approximately 4,000 MW of generation capacity, located in
Southern California, is already operational. Commercial operational dates for
the remaining capacity range from June 2000 through May 2002. EM&T also has
marketing rights for energy and capacity for two natural gas-fired electric
generating plants of approximately 60 MW each that are owned by affiliated
companies and located near Bloomfield, New Mexico, and in Hazleton,
Pennsylvania.

     In 1999, EM&T provided supply, distribution, and related risk management
services to petroleum producers, refiners, and end-users in the United States
and various international regions. During 1999 EM&T's total crude oil and
petroleum products (physical and notional) marketed averaged 2,420.8 Mbbl per



day. During 1999 EM&T also marketed natural gas liquids with total volumes
(physical) averaging 244.9 Mbbl per day.

     In early 1999, EM&T announced its intent to focus the natural gas and
electric business on large end-use customers and away from sales to commercial
and retail customers. In keeping with that direction, the subsidiaries,
principally Volunteer Energy L.L.C., which were engaged in retail natural gas
and electric sales, were sold during 1999. In addition, EM&T's retail propane
business conducted by Thermogas L.L.C. was sold to Ferrellgas Partners L.P. on
December 17, 1999, pursuant to an unsolicited offer (see Note 7 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

     Operating Statistics. The following table summarizes marketing and trading
volumes for the periods indicated (natural gas volumes include sales by the
retail gas and electric business, which has now been divested; propane gallons
in 1999 represent sales by Thermogas through December 17, 1999, the date
Thermogas was sold; includes propane gallons during 1997 and a portion of 1998
during which Williams did not own MAPCO Inc.):



REGULATORY MATTERS

     Midstream Gas & Liquids. In May 1994, after reviewing its legal authority
in a Public Comment Proceeding, the FERC determined that while it retains some
regulatory jurisdiction over gathering and processing performed by interstate
pipelines, pipeline-affiliated gathering and processing companies are outside
its authority under the Natural Gas Act. An appellate court has affirmed the
FERC's determination, and the United States Supreme Court has denied requests
for certiorari. As a result of these FERC decisions, some of the individual
states in which Midstream Gas & Liquids conducts its operations have considered
whether to impose regulatory requirements on gathering companies. Kansas,
Oklahoma, and Texas currently regulate gathering activities using complaint
mechanisms under which the state commission may resolve disputes involving an
individual gathering arrangement. Other states may also consider whether to
impose regulatory requirements on gathering companies.

     In February 1996, Midstream Gas & Liquids and Transco filed applications
with the FERC to spindown all of Transco's gathering facilities to Midstream Gas
& Liquids. The FERC subsequently denied the request in September 1996. Midstream
Gas & Liquids and Transco sought rehearing in October 1996. In August 1997,
Midstream Gas & Liquids and Transco filed a second request for expedited
treatment of the rehearing request. The FERC has yet to rule on this request for
rehearing. In February 1998 Midstream Gas & Liquids and Transco filed separate
applications to spindown an onshore gathering system located in Texas, the
Tilden/ McMullen gathering system, which was also one of the subjects of the
pending rehearing request. In May of 1999, FERC approved the spindown
application only for the facilities upstream of the Tilden treating plant. The
transfer of ownership of these facilities is planned for April 2000. As a result
of a court appeal reversing and remanding the Commission's decision that the
offshore system of Sea Robin pipeline were transmission facilities regulated by
FERC under the Natural Gas Act, in June 1998. FERC issued a Notice of Inquiry
into its policy related to jurisdiction over pipeline facilities located on the
Outer Continental Shelf. Instead of issuing a policy or rule, in June 1999, FERC
issued an order in the Sea Robin remand proceeding finding that the upstream
portions of the Sea Robin system are nonjurisdictional gathering but the
downstream portion is regulated transmission. Rehearing requests are pending. In
June 1999, FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking under the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, proposing certain reporting requirements (including
prices, terms and conditions), for facilities located on the Outer Continental
Shelf. FERC has not issued a final rule in that proceeding.



     Midstream Gas & Liquids' natural gas liquids group is subject to various
federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations.
Midstream Gas & Liquids' pipeline operations are subject to the provisions of
the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act. In addition, the tariff rates,
shipping regulations, and other practices of the Mid-America, Rio Grande,
Seminole, Wilprise, and Tri-States pipelines are regulated by the FERC pursuant
to the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Act applicable to interstate common
carrier petroleum and petroleum products pipelines. The tariff rates and
practices of the ammonia system are regulated by the Surface Transportation
Board under the provisions of the Interstate Commerce Commission Termination Act
of 1995 applicable to pipeline carriers. Both of these statutes require the
filing of reasonable and nondiscriminatory tariff rates and subject Midstream
Gas & Liquids to certain other regulations concerning its terms and conditions
of service. The Mid-America, Rio Grande, Seminole, Wilprise and Tri-States
pipelines also file tariff rates covering intrastate movements with various
state commissions. The United States Department of Transportation has prescribed
safety regulations for common carrier pipelines. The pipeline systems are
subject to various state laws and regulations concerning safety standards,
exercise of eminent domain, and similar matters.

     Petroleum Services. Williams Pipe Line, as an interstate common carrier
pipeline, is subject to the provisions and regulations of the Interstate
Commerce Act. Under this Act, Williams Pipe Line is required, among other
things, to establish just, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory rates, to file its
tariffs with the FERC, to keep its records and accounts pursuant to the Uniform
System of Accounts for Oil Pipeline Companies, to make annual reports to the
FERC, and to submit to examination of its records by the audit staff of the
FERC. Authority to regulate rates, shipping rules, and other practices and to
prescribe depreciation rates for common carrier pipelines is exercised by the
FERC. The Department of Transportation, as authorized by the 1995 Pipeline
Safety Reauthorization Act, is the oversight authority for interstate liquids
pipelines. Williams Pipe Line is also subject to the provisions of various state
laws applicable to intrastate pipelines.

     On December 31, 1989, a rate cap, which resulted from a settlement with
several shippers and had effectively frozen Williams Pipe Line's rates for the
previous five years, expired. Williams Pipe Line filed a revised tariff on
January 16, 1990, with the FERC and the state commissions. The tariff set an
average increase in rates of 11 percent and established volume incentives and
proportional rate discounts. Certain shippers on the Williams Pipe Line system
and a competing pipeline carrier filed protests with the FERC alleging that the
revised rates were not just and reasonable and were unlawfully discriminatory.
Williams Pipe Line elected to bifurcate this proceeding in accordance with the
then-current FERC policy. Phase I of the FERC's bifurcated proceeding provided
Williams Pipe Line the opportunity to justify its rates and rate structure by
demonstrating that its markets were workably competitive. Rates to markets that
were not deemed workably competitive in Phase I required cost justification in
Phase II. Subsequent rate increases filed by Williams Pipe Line were stayed
pending ultimate resolution of Phase II.

     In the Phase I proceeding, the FERC found all but 12 of Williams Pipe
Line's markets to be workably competitive and, thus, eligible for market-based
rates. On July 15, 1998, the FERC issued its decision in Phase II finding that
Williams Pipe Line failed to demonstrate that the rates at issue for the 12 less
competitive markets were just and reasonable and that Williams Pipe Line must
roll back those rates to pre-1990 levels and pay refunds with interest to its
shippers. Williams Pipe Line sought rehearing of the July 15, 1998, order and
was granted leave to stay the order's refund requirement until the FERC acted on
rehearing. Williams Pipe Line accrued an appropriate liability in 1998 for the
July 15, 1998, order. Subsequent to the July 15, 1998, order, Williams Pipe Line
entered into settlement discussions with the parties to the case and with the
Commission Staff. These discussions resulted in a settlement that the Commission
approved on October 13, 1999. The settlement resolved all issues related to the
1990 rate filing, including all appeals and requests for rehearing for both
Phase I and Phase II. Moreover, the settlement also addressed all the subsequent
rate filings that had been held in abeyance. Pursuant to the settlement, the
rate refunds that Williams Pipe Line was required to make are less than the
amounts it had accrued for such refunds, and its rates were given status
equivalent to "just and reasonable" rates grandfathered under the Commission's
regulations.

     Environmental regulations and changing crude oil supply patterns continue
to affect the refining industry. The industry's response to environmental
regulations and changing supply patterns will directly affect volumes


and products shipped on the Williams Pipe Line system. Environmental Protection
Agency regulations, driven by the Clean Air Act, require refiners to change the
composition of fuel manufactured. A pipeline's ability to respond to the effects
of regulation and changing supply patterns will determine its ability to
maintain and capture new market shares. Williams Pipe Line has successfully
responded to changes in diesel fuel composition and product supply and has
adapted to new gasoline additive requirements. Reformulated gasoline regulations
have not yet significantly affected Williams Pipe Line. Williams Pipe Line will
continue to attempt to position itself to respond to changing regulations and
supply patterns but cannot predict how future changes in the marketplace will
affect its market areas.

     Energy Marketing & Trading. EM&T's business is subject to a variety of laws
and regulations at the local, state, and federal levels. At the federal level,
important regulatory agencies include the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(regarding energy commodity transportation and wholesale trading) and the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (regarding various over-the-counter
derivative transactions and exemptions and exclusions from the Commodity
Exchange Act). Management believes that EM&T's activities are conducted in
substantial compliance with the marketing affiliate rules of FERC Order 497.
Order 497 imposes certain nondiscrimination, disclosure, and separation
requirements upon interstate natural gas pipelines with respect to their natural
gas trading affiliates. EM&T has taken steps to ensure it does not share
employees or officers with affiliated interstate natural gas pipelines and does
not receive information from affiliated interstate natural gas pipelines that is
not also available to unaffiliated natural gas trading companies.

COMPETITION

     Exploration & Production. Williams Energy's E&P unit competes with a wide
variety of independent producers as well as integrated oil and gas companies for
markets for its production. E&P has three general phases of operations:
acquiring oil and gas properties, developing non-producing properties, and
operating producing properties. In the process of acquiring minerals, the
primary methods of competition are on acquisition price and terms such as
duration of the mineral lease, the amount of the royalty payment, and special
conditions related to rights to use the surface of the land under which the
mineral interest lies. In the process of developing non-producing properties,
E&P does not face significant competition. In the operating phase, the primary
method of competition involves operating efficiencies related to the cost to
produce the hydrocarbons from the reservoir.

     Midstream Gas & Liquids. Williams Energy competes for gathering and
processing business with interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers, and
independent gatherers and processors. Numerous factors impact any given
customer's choice of a gathering or processing services provider, including
rate, term, timeliness of well connections, pressure obligations, and the
willingness of the provider to process for either a fee or for liquids taken
in-kind. Competition for the natural gas liquids pipelines include other
pipelines, tank cars, trucks, barges, local sources of supply (refineries,
gasoline plants, and ammonia plants), and other sources of energy such as
natural gas, coal, oil, and electricity. Factors that influence customer
transportation decisions include rate, location, and timeliness of delivery.

     Petroleum Services. Williams Pipe Line operates without the protection of a
federal certificate of public convenience and necessity that might preclude
other entrants from providing like service in its area of operations. Further,
Williams Pipe Line must plan, operate, and compete without the operating
stability inherent in a broad base of contractually obligated or
owner-controlled usage. Because Williams Pipe Line is a common carrier, its
shippers need only meet the requirements set forth in its published tariffs in
order to avail themselves of the transportation services offered by Williams
Pipe Line.

     Competition exists from other pipelines, refineries, barge traffic,
railroads, and tank trucks. Competition is affected by trades of products or
crude oil between refineries that have access to the system and by trades among
brokers, traders, and others who control products. These trades can result in
the diversion from the Williams Pipe Line system of volume that might otherwise
be transported on the system. Shorter, lower revenue hauls may also result from
these trades. Williams Pipe Line also is exposed to interfuel competition
whereby an energy form shipped by a liquids pipeline, such as heating fuel, is
replaced by a form not



transported by a liquids pipeline, such as electricity or natural gas. While
Williams Pipe Line faces competition from a variety of sources throughout its
marketing areas, the principal competition is other pipelines. A number of
pipeline systems, competing on a broad range of price and service levels,
provide transportation service to various areas served by the system. The
possible construction of additional competing products or crude oil pipelines,
conversions of crude oil or natural gas pipelines to products transportation,
changes in refining capacity, refinery closings, changes in the availability of
crude oil to refineries located in its marketing area, or conservation and
conversion efforts by fuel consumers may adversely affect the volumes available
for transportation by Williams Pipe Line.

     Williams Bio-Energy's fuel ethanol operations compete in local, regional,
and national fuel additive markets with other ethanol products and other fuel
additive producers, such as refineries and MTBE producers. Williams Bio-Energy's
other products compete in global markets against a variety of competitors and
substitute products.

     The principal competitive forces affecting Williams Energy's refining
businesses are feedstock costs, refinery efficiency, refinery product mix, and
product distribution. Some of Memphis Refinery's competitors can process sour
crude, and accordingly, are more flexible in the crudes that they can process.
Williams Energy has limited crude oil reserves and does not engage in crude oil
exploration, and it must therefore obtain its crude oil requirements from
unaffiliated sources. Williams Energy believes that it will be able to obtain
adequate crude oil and other feedstocks at generally competitive prices for the
foreseeable future.

     The principal competitive factors affecting Williams Energy's retail
petroleum business are location, product price and quality, appearance and
cleanliness of stores, and brand-name identification. Competition in the
convenience store industry is intense. Within the travel center industry,
Williams TravelCenters strives to be a market leader in customer service to the
local consumer, traveling consumer, and professional driver. Averaging 12,000
square feet, the facilities seamlessly blend these customer groups, resulting in
greater revenue and income diversification than traditional convenience stores.

     Energy Marketing & Trading. Williams Energy's operations directly compete
with large independent energy marketers, marketing affiliates of regulated
pipelines and utilities, and natural gas producers. The financial trading
business competes with other energy-based companies offering similar services as
well as certain brokerage houses. This level of competition contributes to a
business environment of constant pricing and margin pressure.

OWNERSHIP OF PROPERTY

     The majority of Williams Energy's ownership interests in exploration and
production properties are held as working interests in oil and gas leaseholds.

     Williams Energy's gathering and processing facilities and natural gas
liquids pipelines are owned in fee. Midstream Gas & Liquids constructs and
maintains gathering and natural gas liquids pipeline systems pursuant to
rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses, and consents on and across
properties owned by others. The compressor stations and gas processing and
treating facilities are located in whole or in part on lands owned by
subsidiaries of Williams Energy or on sites held under leases or permits issued
or approved by public authorities.

     Williams Energy owns its petroleum pipeline system in fee. However, a
substantial portion of the system is operated, constructed, and maintained
pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses, or consents on and
across properties owned by others. The terminals, pump stations, and all other
facilities of the system are located on lands owned in fee or on lands held
under long-term leases, permits, or contracts. The North Pole Refinery is
located on land leased from the state of Alaska under a long-term lease
scheduled to expire in 2025 and renewable at that time by Williams Energy. The
Anchorage, Alaska, terminal is located on land leased from the Alaska Railroad
Corporation under two long-term leases. The Memphis Refinery is located on land
owned by Williams Energy. Williams Energy owns approximately one-half of the
properties upon which its Retail Petroleum stores are located and leases the
remainder from third parties. Williams Energy



management believes its assets are in such a condition and maintained in such a
manner that they are adequate and sufficient for the conduct of business.

     The primary assets of Williams Energy's energy marketing and trading unit
are its term contracts, employees, related systems and technological support.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Williams Energy is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and
regulations relating to environmental quality control. Management believes that
Williams Energy's operations are in substantial compliance with existing
environmental legal requirements. Management expects that compliance with
existing environmental legal requirements will not have a material adverse
effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position of
Williams Energy. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     The EPA has named Williams Pipe Line as a potentially responsible party as
defined in Section 107(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation, and Liability Act, for a site in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. The
EPA placed this site on the National Priorities List in July 1990. In April 1991
Williams Pipe Line and the EPA executed an administrative consent order under
which Williams Pipe Line agreed to conduct a remedial investigation and
feasibility study for this site. The EPA issued its "No Action" Record of
Decision in 1994, concluding that there were no significant hazards associated
with the site subject to two additional years of monitoring for arsenic in
certain existing monitoring wells. Williams Pipe Line completed monitoring in
the second quarter of 1997 and submitted a report of results to the EPA, which
published a Notice of Intent to delete the Sioux Falls site in the January 4,
1999, Federal Register. The public comment period has ended with no significant
comments needing to be addressed. Williams Pipe Line was issued a closure letter
from the EPA on April 2, 1999. All monitoring is completed, and no further work
is anticipated in association with the site.

     Groundwater monitoring and remediation are ongoing at both refineries and
air and water pollution control equipment is operating at both refineries to
comply with applicable regulations. The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990
continue to impact Williams Energy's refining businesses through a number of
programs and provisions. The provisions include Maximum Achievable Control
Technology rules which are being developed for the refining industry, controls
on individual chemical substances, new operating permit rules and new fuel
specifications to reduce vehicle emissions. The provisions impact other
companies in the industry in similar ways and are not expected to adversely
impact Williams Energy's competitive position.

                      WILLIAMS COMMUNICATIONS GROUP, INC.

     On October 6, 1999, Williams Communications Group, Inc., closed an initial
public offering (IPO) by selling shares of its Class A Common Stock to the
public. In separate private placements, SBC Communications Inc., Intel
Corporation, and Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. each purchased a portion of
the Class A Common Stock. As of March 15, 2000, there were 68,195,470 shares of
the Class A Common Stock outstanding, and Williams owned 395,434,965 shares of
the Class B Common Stock of Communications, representing an approximate 85.3
percent ownership interest. Holders of the Class A Common Stock are entitled to
one vote per share, and Williams, as holder of the Class B Common Stock of
Communications, is entitled to ten votes per share.

     Williams Communications is comprised of three business segments: Network,
which owns and operates Communications' fiber optic network; Solutions, which
provides equipment sales and service, professional services, and sale of carrier
services; and Strategic Investments, which makes investments in, or owns and
operates, domestic and foreign businesses that create demand for capacity on the
Communications network, increase Williams Communications service capabilities,
strengthen its customer relationships, develop its expertise in advanced
transmission electronics, or extend its reach. In 1999, Communications sold
Global Access, its audio- and video-conferencing business. See Note 5 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial



Statements. In 1999, Communications also decided to abandon its Telemetry
business. Communications has approximately 9,200 employees.

NETWORK

     Products and Services. Network's products and services fall into seven
categories: packet-based data services, private line services, voice services,
local services, dark fiber rights, optical wave services, and network design and
operational support.

     Revenues. In 1999, 1998, and 1997, Network contributed approximately 19.9,
11.1, and 3.0 percent, respectively, to Communications' total revenues.

     Network. At December 31, 1999, Communications had approximately 26,000
route miles of fiber optic cable primarily installed in the ground, with
approximately 20,000 of those miles in operation. As of December 31, 1999,
Williams Communications had 38 points of presence.

     The Communications network is being constructed along pipeline rights of
way of affiliates of Williams and the rights-of-way of other pipeline companies.
As of December 31, 1999, Communications had agreements in place for
approximately 90 percent of the rights of way needed to complete the network.

     In addition to providing services on its own network, Communications leases
capacity and obtains options rights in dark fiber and wavelengths from both long
distance and local telecommunications carriers, including competitors, in order
to meet the needs of customers.

     Customers. Network's customers currently include regional Bell operating
companies, Internet service providers, long distance carriers, international
carriers, utilities, and other service providers who desire high-speed
connectivity on a wholesale basis.

     Network's largest customers for 1999 were Intermedia, which accounted for
25 percent of Network's revenues, and WinStar, which accounted for 22 percent of
Network's revenues. Network's next four largest customers accounted for a total
of 28 percent of Network's total revenues.

SOLUTIONS

     In April 1997, Communications purchased the equipment distribution business
of Nortel Communications Systems, Inc., which it then combined with its
equipment distribution business to create Williams Communications Solutions,
LLC. Nortel's equipment distribution business included the combined net assets
of Nortel's direct sales subsidiary, Nortel Communications Systems, Inc., which
includes Bell Atlantic Meridian Systems and TTS Meridian Systems, Inc.
Communications owns a 70 percent interest and Nortel owns a 30 percent interest
in Solutions, LLC. Communications and Nortel have representation in proportion
to their respective ownership interest on the management committee of Solutions,
LLC. As long as Nortel's interest in Solutions LLC is at least 20 percent,
Nortel must approve, among other things, any changes to the scope of Solutions
LLC's business; any non-budgeted capital expenditure over $5 million; any
non-budgeted acquisition, divestiture or any other obligation over $20 million;
and the incurrence of long-term debt in excess of equity.

     Products and Services. Solutions operates approximately 110 sales and
service offices in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico staffed with approximately 1,200
sales personnel. Solutions provides a comprehensive array of communications
products and services. These products and services fall into three categories:
equipment sales and service, professional services, and marketing of carrier
services.

     Revenues. In 1999, 1998, and 1997, Solutions contributed approximately
68.9, 77.5, and 82.4 percent, respectively, to Communications' total revenues.

     Vendor relationships. Solutions has agreements with the suppliers of the
products and providers of the services it sells to its customers. These
agreements provide for Solutions to distribute, resale, or integrate products or
act as agent for the provider of services. Solutions' primary vendor
relationships are with Nortel, Cisco, Lucent, and NEC. By having relationships
with multiple vendors, Solutions believes it can provide the



best solution for each customer's specific needs. Solutions realizes that an
interruption, or substantial modification, of its distribution relationships
could have a material adverse effect on its business.

     Customers. Solutions provides products and services to approximately
100,000 customer sites across a broad range of industries including businesses
as well as educational, governmental, and non-profit institutions. These
customers consist of small businesses (ten or more employees), small sites of
larger companies, and large enterprise campus sites. Solutions is not dependent
on any one customer or group of customers to achieve its desired results.
Solutions' top 25 customers combined accounted for less than 25 percent of
revenue during 1999, with no one customer accounting for more than 1 percent.

STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS

     Through Strategic Investments, Communications makes investments in, or owns
and operates, domestic and foreign businesses that create demand for capacity on
the Communications network, increase Communications' service capabilities,
strengthen Communications' customer relationships, develop Communications'
expertise in advanced transmission electronics, or extend Communications' reach.
Individual domestic and international strategic investments are discussed below.

     Vyvx Services. Vyvx provides integrated fiber optic, satellite, and
teleport video transmission services. Through Vyvx, Communications has gained
experience in multimedia networks and has established high-speed connectivity to
the major news and sports venues throughout the United States. Vyvx's broadcast
customers include all major broadcast and cable television networks, news
services, and professional and collegiate sports organizations. Considering its
addressable markets for backhauling video content, Vyvx currently has 85 percent
of the professional sports market, 65 percent of the live event market, and a 35
percent share in the transmission of television advertising. Vyvx has begun
developing a MediaXtranet application infrastructure that will allow Vyvx to
develop greater capabilities to function in the eBusiness and Internet
environment and allow customers direct access to advertising spot storage and
distribution. Communications owns 100 percent of Vyvx.

     While Vyvx has approximately 2,000 active customers, approximately 40
percent of its total revenue is derived from its top ten customers. Vyvx's
contracts with its largest customers are for terms that extend up to ten years.
Most of its contracts with its smaller customers are for one-year terms. Vyvx's
largest customer, Fox Entertainment Group, Inc., accounted for approximately
nine percent of Communications' total revenues in 1999.

     Concentric. Concentric Network Corporation is a provider of Internet-based
virtual and private networking services to business customers. As of March 14,
2000, Communications owns 4,633,716 shares, or 11 percent, of Concentric's
common stock.

     Sycamore Networks. Sycamore Networks is manufacturer of cutting edge
high-end fiber optic transmission equipment, especially DWDM equipment. As of
March 14, 2000, Communications owns 252,000 shares, or less than one percent of
Sycamore's common stock.

     Cisco Systems. Cisco Systems is a manufacturer of routers and other
equipment to support Internet transmissions. As of March 14, 2000,
Communications owns 422,938 shares, or less than one percent of Cisco's common
stock.

     TMNG. TMNG is a provider of strategy, management, operational and
e-business consulting services to the global telecommunications industry. As of
March 14, 2000, Communications owns 500,000 warrants to purchase TMNG's common
stock at an exercise price of $2.50 per share.

     Ziplink, Inc. Ziplink is a provider of wholesale Internet access services
to developers and vendors of Internet appliances and local, regional and
national Internet service appliances. As of March 14, 2000, Communications owns
216,964 shares, or approximately two percent of Ziplink's common stock.

     UniDial. UniDial Communications, Inc. is a reseller of long distance and
other communications products, including frame relay, Internet, and conferencing
services. As of March 14, 2000, Communications estimates that its preferred
stock would convert into approximately 12.3 percent of UniDial's common stock.


     UtiliCom. UtiliCom Networks, Inc. partners with utilities to create joint
ventures offering local exchange and other communications services. As of March
14, 2000, Communications owns 469,154 shares, or four percent of UtiliCom's
common stock. Communications also owns warrants to purchase an additional
200,000 shares at an exercise price of $3.00 per share.

     CSI, Inc. CSI, Inc. deploys touch-screen display units installed on stadium
seats that provide access to statistics, different views of the field, player-
and venue-related information and access to current information from other
sports events. Communications owns 100 percent of the common stock and 28
percent of the preferred stock of CSI.

     Others. Communications has also made investments in other domestic
privately held companies, including NET-tel Communications, Prism Communication
Services, SporTVision, Sonus Networks, Corvis Corporation, Optical Networks,
Axient, Battery Convergence Fund, ClearData.net, Compass Telecommunications,
Internet Telemetry Corp., Avid Sports, Accelerated Networks, Zaffire, and
Centennial Strategic Partners Fund.

     ATL. ATL-Algar Telecom Leste S.A. provides digital cellular services in the
Brazilian states of Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo, covering a population of
approximately 16.1 million inhabitants. As of March 14, 2000, Communications
owns 19 percent of ATL's common stock and 66 percent of ATL's preferred stock.

     PowerTel. PowerTel plans to build, own, and operate communications networks
serving the three cities of Brisbane, Melbourne and Sydney, Australia, and plans
to provide local services in the central business districts of these cities. As
of December 31, 1999, Communications owned 159,574,468 shares, or 35 percent, of
the common stock of PowerTel and 31,914,894 shares, or 100 percent, of the
convertible cumulative preferred stock of PowerTel. Communications' total
investment represents a 41 percent economic interest in PowerTel.
Communications' currently holds a majority of PowerTel's board seats, is
entitled to appoint the executive officers of PowerTel and to exercise control
over the company's operations.

     Telefonica Manquehue, S.A. Metrocom S.A. was a Chilean company formed to
build, own, and operate a communications network providing local, Internet,
data, and voice services to businesses and residences in the Santiago
metropolitan area. Communications owned a 19.9 percent equity interest in
Metrocom S.A. until January 31, 2000, when Metrocom merged with Telefonica
Manquehue, S.A. As a result of that merger, Communications owns, as of March 14,
2000, 19.6 percent of Telefonica Manquehue, S.A.

     Revenues. For 1999, 1998, and 1997, Strategic Investments contributed
approximately 11.3, 11.5, and 14.8 percent, respectively, to Communications'
total revenues.

STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND RELATIONSHIPS

     Communications has, and will continue to, enter into strategic alliances
with communications companies to secure long-term, high-capacity commitments for
traffic on its network and to enhance its service offerings. The most
significant of these alliances are described briefly below.

     SBC Communications Inc. SBC is a major communications provider in the U.S.
that currently provides local services in the south central region of the U.S.
and in California, Nevada, and Connecticut. In the fourth quarter of 1999, SBC
acquired Ameritech, a major communications provider in the Midwest region of the
United States.

     On February 8, 1999, Communications entered into agreements with SBC under
which:

     - SBC must first seek to obtain domestic voice and data long distance
       services from Communications for 20 years.

     - Communications must first seek to obtain select international wholesale
       services and various other services, including toll-free, operator,
       calling card and directory assistance services, from SBC for 20 years.

     - Communications and SBC will sell each other's products to their
       respective customers and provide installation and maintenance of
       communications equipment and other services.


     Intel Corporation. Intel is a manufacturer of chips and other computer,
networking, and communications products. Intel recently announced the formation
of its new business, Intel Online Services, to provide Internet Web-hosting
services by building and managing data centers around the world that will
support the Web sites of third parties.

     On May 24, 1999, Communications and Intel, on behalf of Intel Online
Services, entered into a ten-year master alliance agreement. The alliance
agreement provides that Communications and Intel Online Services will purchase
services from one another pursuant to a service agreement and create a
co-marketing arrangement, each of which will be for a three-year term renewable
for one-year terms thereafter. The services Communications will provide include
domestic transport services. Intel will provide Web hosting services pursuant to
the co-marketing arrangement. Subject to Communications' meeting pricing,
quality of service and other specifications, Intel Online Services will purchase
a significant portion of its yearly domestic transport requirements from
Communications.

     Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. Telefonos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
(TelMex), the largest communications provider in Mexico, currently provides long
distance and local services primarily in Mexico.

     On May 25, 1999, Communications entered alliance agreements with TelMex
under which, subject to any necessary U.S. and Mexican regulatory requirements:

     - TelMex must first seek to obtain select international wholesale services
       and various other services from Communications for 20 years.

     - Communications must first seek to obtain select international wholesale
       services and various other services from TelMex for 20 years.

     In addition, Williams Communications and TelMex have entered into an
interconnection agreement and are negotiating additional agreements for the
purchase and sale of telecommunications services.

     WinStar. WinStar Communications, Inc. uses wireless technology to provide
high-capacity local exchange and Internet access services to companies located
generally in buildings not served by fiber optic cable.

     On December 17, 1998, Communications entered into two agreements with
WinStar under which:

     - Communications has a 25-year right to use approximately 2% of WinStar's
       wireless local capacity, which is planned to cover the top 50 U.S.
       markets.

     - WinStar has a 25-year right to use four strands of fiber optic cable over
       15,000 route miles on the Communications network, a transmission capacity
       agreement with an obligation to lease specified circuits from
       Communications for at least 20-year terms and an agreement for
       collocation and maintenance services.

     U S WEST. U S WEST, Inc. is a communications provider with operations in
the western region of the U.S. Communications entered into an agreement with U S
WEST, effective January 1998, which provides that the two companies will work
together to provide data networking services to a variety of customers.
Communications also provides various services to U S WEST.

     Intermedia. Intermedia Communications, Inc. provides a wide range of local,
long distance and Internet services. In April 1998, Intermedia executed an
agreement providing for a 20-year right to use Communications' nationwide
transmission capacity.

REGULATORY MATTERS

     Network. Williams Communications, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of
Communications, is subject to Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
regulations as a common carrier with regard to certain of its transmission
services. An FCC rulemaking to eliminate domestic, common carrier tariffs has
been stayed pending judicial review. In the interim, the FCC is requiring such
carriers to operate under traditional tariff


rules. Operations of microwave communications, satellite earth stations, and
certain other related transmission facilities are also subject to FCC licensing
and other regulations. These regulations do not significantly impact Williams
Communications, Inc.'s operations. In 1997 the FCC began implementation of the
Universal Service Fund contemplated in the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
Williams Communications, Inc. is required to contribute to this fund based upon
certain revenues.

     In addition, Williams Communications, Inc. is authorized to provide
intrastate transmission services in each state and is subject to various rules
and regulations in those states in which it provides intrastate transmission
services.

     Solutions. The equipment sold by Solutions must meet the requirements of
Part 68 of the FCC rules governing the equipment registration, labeling, and
connection of equipment to telephone networks. Solutions relies on the equipment
manufacturers' compliance with these requirements for its own compliance
regarding the equipment it distributes. These regulations have a minimal impact
on Solutions' operations.

     In addition, Communications is subject to various rules and regulations in
those foreign jurisdictions in which it has international operations or
investments.

COMPETITION

     Network. The communications industry is highly competitive. Some
competitors in the carrier services and fiber optic network business segments
may have personnel, financial, or other competitive advantages. New competitors
may enter the market because of increased consolidation and strategic alliances
resulting from the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as well as technological
advances and further deregulation. In the market for carrier services, Network
competes primarily with the three traditional nationwide carriers, AT&T, MCI
WorldCom, and Sprint, and other coast-to-coast and regional fiber optic network
providers, such as Qwest, Level 3, and Broadwing. Network competes primarily on
the basis of pricing, transmission quality, network reliability, and customer
service and support. Network has only recently begun to offer some of its
services and products and as a result may have fewer and less well established
customer relationships than some of its competitors.

     Network believes that it has advantages over its competitors. AT&T, MCI
WorldCom, and Sprint utilize systems that were constructed for the most part
prior to 1990. Network believes that the older systems operated by these
carriers generally face disadvantages when compared to the Communications
network, such as lower transmission speeds; lower overall capacity; more costly
maintenance requirements; inefficiency due to design and competing traffic
requirements; and greater susceptibility to systems interruption from physical
damage to the network infrastructure.

     The prices that Network can charge its customers for transmission capacity
on its network could decline due to installation by Network and its competitors,
some of which are expanding capacity on their existing networks or developing
new networks, of fiber and related equipment that would provide substantially
more transmission capacity than currently needed. If prices for network services
significantly decline, Network may experience a decline in revenues, which would
have a material adverse effect on its operations.

     Network believes that its strategy of selling products and services to
other communications carriers gives it an advantage over other fiber optic
network providers who compete with their customers. Network believes that
communications carriers prefer not to buy products and services from a
competitor. Network also does not need a large sales, marketing, and customer
service staff in order to support the retail markets that its competitors serve.
Network can effectively reach and serve a relatively small group of large
customers with a small, more efficient, and more focused team, resulting in
reduced costs.

     Solutions. Solutions' competition comes from communications equipment
distributors, network integrators, and manufacturers of equipment (including in
some instances those manufacturers whose products Solutions also sells).
Solutions competitors include Norstan, Inc., Lucent, Siemens, Cisco Systems and
the equipment divisions of GTE, Sprint, and the regional Bell operating
companies. Most equipment distributors tend to be regionally focused and do not
have Solutions' capability to service a nationwide customer base. Solutions
believes its expertise in voice technologies and its ability to provide
comprehensive solutions give it


an advantage over network integrators. Solutions operates in a highly
competitive industry and faces competition from companies that may have
significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources. Some of
Solutions' competitors have strong existing relationships with Solutions'
customers and potential customers resulting in a competitive disadvantage for
Solutions. Solutions is also at a disadvantage in that its costs exceed those of
manufacturers, limiting its ability to engage in price competition with such
manufacturers. However, most manufacturers of equipment are focused on selling
their own equipment and do not provide converged solutions.

     Vyvx. Vyvx's Competition is based primarily on service quality and
reliability and network reach and, to a lesser extent, on price. Vyvx's
competitors include some of the largest domestic and international
communications companies, which have greater financial resources and name
recognition. Vyvx is at a disadvantage in international broadcasting because its
competitors have greater international presence.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     Communications is subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations
relating to the environmental aspects of its business. Management believes that
Communications' operations are in substantial compliance with existing
environmental legal requirements. Management expects that compliance with such
existing environmental legal requirements will not have a material adverse
effect on the capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position of
Communications.



                         WILLIAMS INTERNATIONAL COMPANY

     Williams International Company, through subsidiaries, has made direct
investments in energy projects primarily in South America and Lithuania and
continues to explore and develop additional projects for international
investment. Williams International also has investments in energy,
telecommunications, and infrastructure development funds in Asia and South
America.

     El Furrial. Williams International owns a 67 percent interest in a venture
near the El Furrial field in eastern Venezuela that constructed, owns, and
operates medium and high pressure gas compression facilities for Petroleos de
Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), the state owned petroleum corporation of Venezuela.

     The medium pressure facility has compression capacity of 130 MMcf per day
of raw natural gas from 100 to 1,200 p.s.i.g. for delivery into a natural gas
processing plant owned by PDVSA. The high pressure facility has compression
capacity of 650 MMcf per day of processed natural gas from 1,100 to 7,500
p.s.i.g. for injection into PDVSA's El Furrial producing field.

     Jose Terminal. In November 1998, a consortium in which Williams
International owns 45 percent, entered into an agreement with PDVSA to purchase
the Jose Terminal, an 800,000 Bbp per day crude oil storage and shiploading
facility in northeastern Venezuela, for a 20-year renewable term. As part of the
transaction, PDVSA, directly and indirectly through its partners, has committed
to store and shipload approximately 750,000 to 850,000 Bbp per day of crude oil
during the first 20 years of the transaction. Williams International began
interim operations in the second quarter of 1999 and continues to operate the
facility. Formal closing has not yet occurred.

     Pigap II. In April 1999, a consortium in which Williams International owns
70 percent entered into an agreement with PDVSA Petroleo y Gas, S.A., to
develop, design, construct, operate, maintain, and own a high pressure natural
gas injection facility and related infrastructure to take gas, process it, and
deliver it for injection for secondary recovery of oil from the Santa
Barbara/Pirital oil fields located in North Monogas, Venezuela for an initial
term of 20 years. Williams International commenced construction in February
2000.

     AB Mazeikiu Nafta. In October 1999, Williams entered into an agreement with
the Government of Lithuania to acquire a 33 percent ownership interest and the
right to operate AB Mazeikiu Nafta (MN). MN consists of a 320,000 barrel per day
refinery, the crude oil and refined product pipeline systems within Lithuania,
and a 160,000 barrel per day crude export facility on the Baltic Sea. Williams
commenced operating these assets in October 1999.

     Apco Argentina. Williams International also owns an interest in Apco
Argentina Inc., an oil and gas exploration and production company with
operations in Argentina whose securities are traded in the Nasdaq Stock Market.
Apco Argentina's principal business is its 47.6 percent interest in the Entre
Lomas concession in southwest Argentina. It also owns a 45 percent interest in
the Canadon Ramirez concession and a 1.5 percent interest in the Acambuco
concession.

     At December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997, estimated developed, proved reserves
net to Apco Argentina were 20.0, 15.5, and 23.7 million barrels, respectively,
of oil, condensate, and plant products, and 51.1, 26.8, and 35.8 Bcf,
respectively, of natural gas. Estimated undeveloped, proved reserves net to Apco
Argentina were 9.0, 5.1, and 9.5 million barrels, respectively, of oil,
condensate, and plant products, and 20.6 Bcf, 700 MMcf, and 800 MMcf,
respectively, of natural gas.

     At December 31, 1999, the gross and net developed concession acres owned by
Apco Argentina totaled 39,108 acres and 17,674 acres, respectively, and the
gross and net undeveloped concession acres owned were 502,892 acres and 114,912
acres, respectively. At December 31, 1999, Apco Argentina owned interests in 306
gross producing wells and 142 net producing wells on its concession acreage.

     Total net production sold during 1999, 1998, and 1997 was 1.7, 1.7, and 1.8
million barrels, respectively, of oil, condensate, and plant products, and 7.1,
7.7, and 7.7 Bcf, respectively, of natural gas. The average production costs,
including all costs of operations such as remedial well workovers and
depreciation of property and equipment, per barrel of oil produced were $8.26,
$9.09, and $8.27, respectively, and per Mcf of natural gas produced were $.21,
$.23, and $.21, respectively. The average wellhead sales price per barrel of oil
sold were $17.75, $12.71, and $19.52, respectively, and per Mcf of natural gas
sold were $1.35, $1.33, and $1.34, respectively, for the same periods.


OTHER INFORMATION

     Williams believes that it has adequate sources and availability of raw
materials to assure the continued supply of its services and products for
existing and anticipated business needs. Williams' pipeline systems are all
regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on the investments
made in the systems being limited to standards permitted by the regulatory
bodies. Each of the pipeline systems has ongoing capital requirements for
efficiency and mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also
necessitating periodic capital outlays.

     At December 31, 1999, Williams had approximately 21,000 full-time
employees, of whom approximately 1,900 were represented by unions and covered by
collective bargaining agreements. In September 1998, Williams created three new
companies in order to streamline payroll processing and reduce costs. In
connection with this, Williams transferred its employees to one of these
companies, and the employees are now jointly employed by Williams and one of
these new companies. This change had no impact on Williams' management structure
or on its employees' seniority and benefits. Williams considers its relations
with its employees to be generally good.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Certain matters discussed in this report, excluding historical information,
include forward-looking statements -- statements that discuss Williams' expected
future results based on current and pending business operations. Williams makes
these forwarding-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections
provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

     Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as
"anticipates," "believes," "expects," "planned," "scheduled" or similar
expressions. Although Williams believes these forward-looking statements are
based on reasonable assumptions, statements made regarding future results are
subject to numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that may cause future
results to be materially different from the results stated or implied in this
document.

     The following are important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from any results projected, forecasted, estimated or budgeted:

     - Changes in general economic conditions in the United States.

     - Changes in laws and regulations to which Williams is subject, including
       tax, environmental and employment laws and regulations.

     - The cost and effects of legal and administrative claims and proceedings
       against Williams or its subsidiaries.

     - Conditions of the capital markets Williams utilizes to access capital to
       finance operations.

     - The ability to raise capital in a cost-effective way.

     - The effect of changes in accounting policies.

     - The ability to manage rapid growth.

     - The ability to control costs.

     - The ability of each business unit to successfully implement key systems,
       such as order entry systems and service delivery systems.

     - Changes in foreign economies, currencies, laws and regulations, and
       political climates, especially in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Venezuela,
       Lithuania and Australia, where Williams has made direct investments.

     - The impact of future federal and state regulations of business
       activities, including allowed rates of return, the pace of deregulation
       in retail natural gas and electricity markets, and the resolution of
       other regulatory matters discussed herein.


     - Fluctuating energy commodity prices.

     - The ability of Williams' energy businesses to develop expanded markets
       and product offerings as well as their ability to maintain existing
       markets.

     - The ability of both the Gas Pipeline unit and the Energy Services unit to
       obtain governmental and regulatory approval of various expansion
       projects.

     - The ability of customers of the energy marketing and trading business to
       obtain governmental and regulatory approval of various projects,
       including power generation projects.

     - Future utilization of pipeline capacity, which can depend on energy
       prices, competition from other pipelines and alternative fuels, the
       general level of natural gas and petroleum product demand, decisions by
       customers not to renew expiring natural gas transportation contracts, and
       weather conditions.

     - The accuracy of estimated hydrocarbon reserves and seismic data.

     - Successful completion of the communications network build within budget
       and schedule.

     - The ability to successfully market capacity on the communications
       network.

     - SBC Communications' ability to obtain regulatory approval to provide
       long-distance communications services within markets in which it
       currently provides local services.

     - Successful implementation by Williams Communications of its strategy to
       build a local access infrastructure.

     - Technological developments, high levels of competition, lack of customer
       diversification, and general uncertainties of government regulation in
       the communications industry.

     - Significant competition on pricing and product offerings for
       Communications' Solutions business unit.

     - The ability of Communications' Solutions business to introduce and market
       competitive products and services.

(d) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES

     Williams has no significant amounts of revenue or segment profit or loss
attributable to export sales. See Item 1(c) for a description of Williams
Energy's and Williams International's export sales activities.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     See Item 1(c) for description of properties.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     For information regarding certain proceedings pending before federal
regulatory agencies, see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Williams is also subject to other ordinary routine litigation incidental to its
businesses.

     Environmental matters. Since 1989, Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line have had studies under way to test certain of their facilities for the
presence of toxic and hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any,
remediation may be necessary. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line has responded to
data requests regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites.
The costs of any such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation.
At December 31, 1999, these subsidiaries had accrued liabilities totaling
approximately $27 million for these costs.

     Certain Williams subsidiaries, including Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, have been identified as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at
various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these
subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other
hazardous materials



removal or remediation obligations under environmental laws. Although no
assurances can be given, Williams does not believe that these obligations or the
PRP status of these subsidiaries will have a material adverse effect on its
financial position, results of operations or net cash flows.

     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have identified
polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in air compressor systems, soils
and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have also been involved in negotiations with
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies to develop
screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In addition, negotiations with certain
environmental authorities and other programs concerning investigative and
remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at certain gas
metering sites have been commenced by Central, Texas Gas and Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line. As of December 31, 1999, Central had accrued a liability for
approximately $11 million, representing the current estimate of future
environmental cleanup costs to be incurred over the next six to 10 years. Texas
Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line likewise had accrued liabilities for
these costs which are included in the $27 million liability mentioned above.
Actual costs incurred will depend on the actual number of contaminated sites
identified, the actual amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final
cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities and
other factors. Texas Gas, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and Central have
deferred these costs as incurred pending recovery through future rates and other
means.

     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line received a letter stating that the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ), at the request of the EPA, intends to file a civil
action against Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line arising from its waste management
practices at Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's compressor stations and metering
stations in 11 states from Texas to New Jersey. DOJ stated in the letter that
its complaint will seek civil penalties and injunctive relief under federal
environmental laws. DOJ and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line are discussing a
settlement. While no specific amount was proposed, DOJ stated that any
settlement must include an appropriate civil penalty for the alleged violations.
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line cannot reasonably estimate the amount of its
potential liability, if any, at this time. However, Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line believes it has substantially addressed environmental concerns on its
system through ongoing voluntary remediation and management programs.

     Energy Services (WES) also accrues environmental remediation costs for its
natural gas gathering and processing facilities, petroleum products pipelines,
retail petroleum, refining and propane marketing operations primarily related to
soil and groundwater contamination. At December 31, 1999, WES and its
subsidiaries had accrued liabilities totaling approximately $42 million. WES
recognizes receivables related to environmental remediation costs based upon an
estimate of amounts that will be reimbursed from state funds for certain
expenses associated with underground storage tank problems and repairs. At
December 31, 1999, WES and its subsidiaries had accrued receivables totaling $19
million.

     Williams Field Services (WFS), a WES subsidiary, received a Notice of
Violation (NOV) from the EPA in February 2000. WFS received a contemporaneous
letter from the DOJ indicating that DOJ will also be involved in the matter. The
NOV alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at a gas processing plant. WFS
intends to defend this matter, but cannot reasonably estimate the amount of
potential liability, if any, at this time. EPA, DOJ, and WFS have scheduled
settlement negotiation meetings beginning in March 2000.

     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company,
Williams agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs
resulting from certain conditions at specified locations, to the extent such
costs exceed a specified amount. At December 31, 1999, Williams had
approximately $13 million accrued for such excess costs. The actual costs
incurred will depend on the actual amount and extent of contamination
discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other
governmental authorities, and other factors.

     Other legal matters. In connection with agreements to resolve take-or-pay
and other contract claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line and Texas Gas each entered into certain settlements with producers
which may require the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties
which the producers may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. As a
result of such settlements, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line is currently
defending two lawsuits brought by producers. In one of the cases,


a jury verdict found that Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line was required to pay a
producer damages of $23.3 million including $3.8 million in attorneys' fees.
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line is pursuing an appeal. In the other case, a
producer has asserted damages, including interest calculated through December
31, 1997, of approximately $6 million. Producers have received and may receive
other demands, which could result in additional claims. Indemnification for
royalties will depend on, among other things, the specific lease provisions
between the producer and the lessor and the terms of the settlement between the
producer and either Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line or Texas Gas. Texas Gas may
file to recover 75 percent of any such additional amounts it may be required to
pay pursuant to indemnities for royalties under the provisions of Order 528.

     In connection with the sale of certain coal assets in 1996, MAPCO entered
into a Letter Agreement with the buyer providing for indemnification by MAPCO
for reductions in the price or tonnage of coal delivered under a certain
pre-existing Coal Sales Agreement dated December 1, 1986. The Letter Agreement
is effective for reductions during the period July 1, 1996, through December 31,
2002, and provides for indemnification for such reductions as incurred on a
quarterly basis. On October 7, 1999, MAPCO settled buyer's claims for
indemnification under the Letter Agreement and certain other unrelated claims in
exchange for payment by MAPCO in the amount of $35 million that had been accrued
in prior years.

     In 1998, the United States Department of Justice informed Williams that
Jack Grynberg, an individual, had filed claims in the United States District
Court for the District of Colorado under the False Claims Act against Williams
and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries including Williams Gas Pipelines
Central, Kern River Gas Transmission, Northwest Pipeline, Williams Gas Pipeline
Company, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, Texas Gas, Williams Field
Services Company and Williams Production Company. Mr. Grynberg has also filed
claims against approximately 300 other energy companies and alleges that the
defendants violated the False Claims Act in connection with the measurement and
purchase of hydrocarbons. The relief sought is an unspecified amount of
royalties allegedly not paid to the federal government, treble damages, a civil
penalty, attorneys' fees, and costs. On April 9, 1999, the United States
Department of Justice announced that it was declining to intervene in any of the
Grynberg qui tam cases, including the action filed against the Williams entities
in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. On October 21,
1999, the Panel on Multi-District Litigation transferred all of the Grynberg qui
tam cases, including the ones filed against Williams, to the United States
District Court for the District of Wyoming for pre-trial purposes.

     Shrier v. Williams was filed on August 4, 1999, in the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Oklahoma. Oxford v. Williams was filed on September
3, 1999, in state court in Jefferson County, Texas. The Oxford complaint was
amended to add an additional plaintiff on September 24, 1999. On October 1,
1999, the case was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District
of Texas, Beaumont Division. Plaintiffs have filed a motion seeking to remand
the case back to state court. In each lawsuit, the plaintiff seeks to bring a
nationwide class action on behalf of all landowners on whose property the
plaintiffs have alleged Williams Communications Group, Inc. (WCG) installed
fiber-optic cable without the permission of the landowner. The plaintiffs are
seeking a declaratory ruling that WCG is trespassing, damages resulting from the
alleged trespass, damages based on WCG's profits from use of the property and
damages from alleged fraud. Relief requested by the plaintiff includes
injunction against further trespass, actual and punitive damages, and attorneys'
fees.

     Williams believes that installation of the cable containing the
single-fiber network that crosses over or near the named plaintiffs' land does
not infringe on the plaintiffs' property rights. Williams also does not believe
that the plaintiffs in these lawsuits have sufficient basis for certification of
a class action. The proposed composition of the class in the Oxford lawsuit
appears to include only landowners who would also be included in the class
proposed in the Shrier suit. Other communications carriers have been
successfully challenged with respect to their rights to use railroad rights of
way, which are also challenged by the plaintiffs in Schrier and Oxford.
Approximately 15 percent of the WCG network is installed on railroad rights of
way. In many areas, the railroad granting WCG the license holds full ownership
of the land, in which case its license should be sufficient to give WCG valid
rights to cross the property. In some states where the railroad is not the
property owner but has an easement over the property, the law is unsettled as to
whether a landowner's approval is required. WCG generally did not obtain
landowner approval where the rights of way are located on railroad


easements. In most states, WCG has eminent domain rights which WCG believes
would limit the liability for any trespass damages. It is likely that WCG will
be subject to other purported class action suits challenging the use of railroad
or pipeline rights of way. WCG cannot quantify the impact of all such claims at
this time.

  Summary

     While no assurances may be given, Williams does not believe that the
ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after
consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery from customers,
or other indemnification arrangements, will have a materially adverse effect
upon Williams' future financial position, results of operations, or cash flow
requirements.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Not applicable.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF WILLIAMS

     The names, ages, positions, and earliest election dates of the executive
officers of Williams are:



     Except for Mr. Johnson, all of the above officers have been employed by
Williams or its subsidiaries as officers or otherwise for more than five years
and have had no other employment during the period. Prior to joining Williams,
Mr. Johnson held various officer positions with Amoco Corporation for more than
five years.
- ---------------

*  Mr. Wadlington was named Chief Operating Officer of Williams Gas Pipeline
   Company on July 1, 1999, upon the announcement of the retirement of Mr. Brian
   E. O'Neill. Upon Mr. O'Neill's retirement on January 1, 2000, Mr. Wadlington
   was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of Williams Gas Pipeline
   Company.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

     Williams' Common Stock is listed on the New York and Pacific Stock
exchanges under the symbol "WMB." At the close of business on December 31, 1999,
Williams had approximately 14,815 holders of record of its Common Stock. The
high and low sales price ranges (composite transactions) and dividends declared
by quarter for each of the past two years are as follows:



     Terms of certain subsidiaries' borrowing arrangements limit the transfer of
funds to Williams. These terms have not impeded, nor are they expected to
impede, Williams' ability to meet its cash flow needs.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following financial data as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 and for the
three years ended December 31, 1999 are an integral part of, and should be read
in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.
All other amounts have been prepared from the Company's financial records.
Certain amounts below have been restated or reclassified (see Note 1).
Information concerning significant trends in the financial condition and results
of operations is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations on pages F-2 through F-19 of this report.



- ---------------

(1) See Note 1 for discussion of the 1998 change in the reporting of certain
    marketing activities from a "gross" basis to a "net" basis consistent with
    fair value accounting. See Note 2 for discussion of Williams' 1997
    acquisition of Nortel's customer premise equipment sales and service
    operations.

(2) See Notes 2 and 5 for discussion of the gain on sale of interest in
    subsidiary and asset sales, impairments and other accruals in 1999, 1998 and
    1997. Income from continuing operations in 1996 includes a $15.7 million
    pre-tax gain from the sale of certain communications rights and a $20.8
    million pre-tax gain from the sale of certain propane and liquid fertilizer
    assets. Income from continuing operations in 1995 includes a $41.4 million
    pre-tax charge related to the cancellation of a commercial coal gasification
    venture and a $16 million after-tax gain related to the sale of Williams' 15
    percent interest in Texasgulf, Inc.

(3) See Note 3 for the discussion of the 1998 and 1997 losses from discontinued
    operations. The loss from discontinued operations for 1996 includes a $47.2
    million after-tax loss related to the sale of the MAPCO coal business offset
    by $14.5 million in 1996 income from these operations. The income from
    discontinued operations for 1995 primarily relates to the $1 billion
    after-tax gain from the 1995 sale of Williams' network services operations.

(4) See Note 7 for discussion of the 1999 extraordinary gain and 1998 and 1997
    extraordinary losses.

(5) See Note 1 for discussion of the adoption in 1999 of Statement of Position
    98-5, "Reporting on the Cost of Startup Activities."

(6) See Note 15 for discussion of the 1999 issuance of subsidiary's common
    stock.

                                       F-1


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  1999 vs. 1998

     CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW. Williams' revenues increased $935 million, or 12
percent, due primarily to higher revenues from increased petroleum products and
natural gas liquids sales volumes and average sales prices, increased revenues
from retail natural gas and electric activities following a late 1998
acquisition, higher natural gas services revenues and increases in
Communications' dark fiber lease revenues and new business growth. In addition,
revenues increased due to the acquisition of a petrochemical plant in 1999,
higher revenues from fleet management and mobile computer technology operations
and reductions of rate refund liabilities at Gas Pipeline. Partially off-setting
these increases were the effects in 1999 of reporting certain revenues net of
costs within Energy Services (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements), lower pipeline construction revenues and lower electric power
services revenues reflecting, in part, the designation of an electric power
contract as trading following the adoption in 1999 of EITF 98-10, "Accounting
for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities."

     Segment costs and expenses increased $824 million, or 12 percent, due
primarily to higher costs related to increased petroleum products and natural
gas liquids volumes purchased and average purchase prices, higher retail natural
gas and electric costs following a late 1998 acquisition, higher costs and
expenses from growth of Communications' Network operations and infrastructure,
$33.9 million of 1999 losses and asset impairments at Communications, increased
fleet management and mobile computer technology operations and higher selling,
general and administrative expenses. In addition, 1999 includes $10.5 million of
expense associated with a Williams-wide incentive program. Partially offsetting
these increases were the effects in 1999 of reporting certain costs net in
revenues within Energy Services (see Note 1), lower electric power services
costs, lower pipeline construction costs and $45 million of gains from asset
sales by Energy Services in 1999. In addition, 1998 included $80 million of
MAPCO merger-related costs (including $29 million within general corporate
expenses) (see Note 2), a $58.4 million charge at Gas Pipeline related to
certain long-term gas supply contracts (see Note 19), $29 million of asset
write-downs at Communications and $31 million of retail natural gas and electric
credit loss accruals and asset impairments at Energy Services.

     Operating income increased $132 million, or 18 percent, due primarily to
increases at Energy Services and Gas Pipeline of $105 million and $87 million,
respectively, and the effect in 1998 of MAPCO merger-related costs totaling $80
million, partially offset by $125 million higher segment losses at
Communications. Energy Services' increase reflects improved natural gas trading
activities, increased natural gas liquids volumes and margins, $45 million in
gains from the sales of assets and the effect in 1998 of $31 million of retail
natural gas and electric credit loss accruals and asset impairments, partially
offset by higher selling, general and administrative expenses and lower results
from electric power trading activities and retail petroleum operations. Gas
Pipeline's increase reflects the net favorable revenue effect of 1999 and 1998
adjustments associated with regulatory and rate issues and the effect of the
$58.4 million charge in 1998 related to certain long-term gas supply contracts.
The additional losses at Communications reflect higher selling, general and
administrative expenses, including costs associated with infrastructure growth
and improvement, losses experienced from providing customer services prior to
completion of the new network and $31 million higher losses from start-up
activities of Australian and Brazilian communications operations.

     Income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain
(loss) and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle increased $74
million, or 30 percent, due primarily to $132 million higher operating income,
$43 million of higher investing income and the effect of 1998 litigation loss
accruals and other settlement adjustments totaling $11 million, partially offset
by $114 million higher net interest expense reflecting increased debt in support
of continued expansion and new projects.

     At December 31, 1999, Williams changed the discount rate assumption for use
in calculating pension expense for 2000 from the rate used in 1999 as a result
of changes in market rates. This change is expected to decrease pension expense
approximately $14 million in 2000.

                                       F-2


GAS PIPELINE

     GAS PIPELINE'S revenues increased $146.8 million, or 9 percent, due
primarily to a total of $66 million of reductions to rate refund liabilities,
resulting primarily from second-quarter 1999 regulatory proceedings involving
rate-of-return methodology for three of the gas pipelines and fourth-quarter
1999 revisions following other regulatory proceedings. Revenues also increased
due to $65 million higher gas exchange imbalance settlements, $36 million higher
reimbursable costs passed through to customers (both offset in costs and
operating expenses) and $14 million from expansion projects and new services.
These increases were partially offset by $21 million of favorable 1998
adjustments from the settlement of rate case issues and lower transportation
revenues associated with rate design and discounting on certain segments of the
pipeline.

     Segment costs and expenses increased $59.9 million, or 6 percent, due
primarily to the higher gas exchange imbalance settlements and reimbursable
costs which are passed through to customers, $13 million higher general and
administrative expenses and $9 million higher depreciation and amortization
related mainly to pipeline expansions. These increases were partially offset by
the effect of a $58.4 million charge in 1998 (included in other expense -- net)
related to certain long-term gas supply contracts entered into in 1982. The
charge represented natural gas costs incurred in prior years that will not be
recoverable from customers (see Note 19). General and administrative expenses
increased primarily from information systems initiatives, higher labor and
benefits costs, a $2.3 million accrual for damages associated with two pipeline
ruptures in the northwest and the $2 million write-off of previously capitalized
software development costs.

     Segment profit increased $86.9 million, or 14 percent, due primarily to the
$45 million net revenue effect of the regulatory and rate case issues discussed
above, the $58.4 million effect of the accrual for costs in 1998 related to
certain long-term gas supply contracts discussed above and $14 million of
revenues from expansion projects and new services. These segment profit
increases were partially offset by $9 million higher depreciation and
amortization and $13 million higher general and administrative expenses.

     On March 17, 2000, Gas Pipeline received a favorable order from the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission related to the rate of return and capital structure
issues in a regulatory proceeding. Gas Pipeline is evaluating the effect of the
order. Preliminary indications are that rate refund liabilities may be
considerably reduced in 2000.

ENERGY SERVICES

     ENERGY MARKETING & TRADING'S revenues increased $340.3 million, or 18
percent, due to a $101.5 million increase in trading revenues and a $238.8
million increase in non-trading revenues. The $101.5 million increase in trading
revenues is due primarily to $61 million higher natural gas trading margins,
which reflect $61 million of favorable contract settlements in 1999 and
increased trading volumes and per-unit margins, partially offset by the effect
in 1998 of certain favorable contract settlements and terminations totaling $24
million. In addition, natural gas liquids margins increased $23 million
associated mainly with increased physical trading activities and electric power
trading margins increased $14 million. The electric power trading margin
increase reflects the designation of a southern California electric power
services contract as trading in accordance with EITF 98-10, "Accounting for
Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," which was
adopted first-quarter 1999, the recognition of $7 million of revenue associated
with a 1998 contractual dispute which was settled in 1999 and increased trading
activity. Largely offsetting these electric power trading revenue increases were
lower demand for electricity in southern California in 1999 compared to 1998 due
to cooler summer temperatures in 1999.

     The $238.8 million non-trading revenue increase is due primarily to $334
million higher refined product revenues resulting from higher average sales
prices and increased sales volumes primarily reflecting the 1999 and 1998
expansions of the Alaska and Memphis refineries. In addition, retail natural gas
and electric revenues increased $131 million resulting primarily from the late
1998 acquisition of Volunteer Energy. Partially offsetting these increases were
$211 million lower electric power services revenues primarily related to the
designation of a southern California electric power services contract as trading
in 1999 (discussed above). Additionally, natural gas liquids revenues decreased
slightly as the effect in first-quarter 1999 of

                                       F-3


reporting trading revenues on a net basis for certain operations previously
reported on a "gross" basis was substantially offset by $111 million contributed
by activity from a petrochemical plant acquired early in 1999.

     Cost of sales associated with non-trading activities increased $288.5
million, or 18 percent, due primarily to higher costs for refined products and
retail natural gas and electric operations of $339 million and $120 million,
respectively, partially offset by $156 million lower electric power services
costs which reflects the designation of such costs as trading in 1999 (discussed
above). These variances are associated with the corresponding changes in
non-trading revenues discussed above.

     Segment profit increased $67.1 million, to $106.1 million in 1999, due
primarily to the $61 million higher natural gas trading margins, $34 million
higher natural gas liquids net revenues, a $22.3 million gain on the sale of
Volunteer Energy assets in 1999 and the effect in 1998 of $14 million of asset
impairments related to the decision to focus the retail natural gas and electric
business from sales to small commercial and residential customers to large end
users. These increases were partially offset by $40 million lower electric power
services net revenues, $16 million higher selling, general and administrative
expenses and $8 million higher retail propane operating expenses. The higher
selling, general and administrative expenses reflect higher compensation levels
associated with improved operating performance, growth in electric power trading
operations, the Volunteer Energy acquisition in late 1998 and increased
activities in the areas of human resources development, investor/media/customer
relations and business development, partially offset by the effect in 1998 of a
$17 million credit loss accrual.

     Energy, Marketing & Trading's revenues and costs and expenses for 1999
included $140.5 million and $145.3 million, respectively, from the Volunteer
Energy operations sold in 1999. In addition, Energy, Marketing & Trading sold
its retail propane business, Thermogas Company, previously a subsidiary of MAPCO
Inc., to Ferrellgas Partners L.P. on December 17, 1999 (see Note 7). The sale
yielded an after-tax gain of $65.2 million, which is reported as an
extraordinary gain. Retail propane revenues and costs and expenses were $244.1
million and $257.2 million, respectively, for 1999.

     EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION'S revenues increased $50.8 million, or 37 percent,
due primarily to $22 million from increased average natural gas sales prices,
$20 million associated with increases in both company-owned production volumes
and marketing volumes from the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (Royalty
Trust) and royalty interest owners and $17 million from oil and gas properties
acquired in April 1999. Partially offsetting was an $11 million decrease in the
recognition of income previously deferred from a 1997 transaction which
transferred certain nonoperating economic benefits to a third party.
Company-owned production has increased due mainly to a drilling program
initiated in the San Juan basin in 1998 and 1999 and the April 1999 acquisition.

     Other expense -- net in 1999 includes a $14.7 million gain from the sale of
certain gas producing properties which contributed $2 million to segment profit
in 1999. Also included in other expense -- net in 1999 is a $7.7 million gain
from the sale of certain other properties.

     Segment profit increased $12.6 million, or 46 percent, due primarily to $22
million of gains from the sales of assets, an $8 million contribution from the
April 1999 acquisition, $4 million higher profits from company-owned production
and $4 million lower dry hole costs. Partially offsetting was $11 million
decreased recognition of deferred income, a $9 million decrease in margins from
the marketing of natural gas and $6 million higher nonproducing leasehold
amortization.

     MIDSTREAM GAS & LIQUIDS' revenues increased $158.1 million, or 18 percent,
due primarily to $119 million higher natural gas liquids sales from processing
activities reflecting $62 million from a 46 percent increase in volumes sold and
$57 million from a 29 percent increase in average natural gas liquids sales
prices. The increase in natural gas liquids sales volumes is a result of the
improved liquids market conditions in 1999 and a new plant which became
operational in 1999. In addition, revenues increased due to $17 million from
higher average gathering rates, $16 million higher transportation revenues
associated with increased shipments, the effect of unfavorable adjustments in
1998 of $14 million related to rates placed into effect in 1997 for Midstream's
regulated gathering activities (offset in costs and operating expenses) and $11
million higher natural gas liquids storage revenues following the mid-1999
acquisition of two storage facilities. Partially

                                       F-4


offsetting these increases were $20 million lower equity earnings including 1998
and 1999 reclassifications totaling $10 million for the Discovery pipeline
project (offset in capitalized interest).

     Cost and operating expenses increased $122.2 million, or 22 percent, due
primarily to $58 million higher liquids fuel and replacement gas purchases,
higher operating and maintenance expenses and the 1998 rate adjustments related
to Midstream's regulated gathering activities.

     Segment profit increased $5.1 million, or 2 percent, due primarily to $40
million from higher per-unit natural gas liquids margins and $7 million from the
increase in natural gas liquids volumes sold reflecting more favorable market
conditions. The rapidly rising crude oil prices during 1999 and
flat-to-declining natural gas prices caused natural gas liquids margins to
increase significantly. For each penny improvement in natural gas liquids
margins in 1999, segment profit increased approximately $8 million to $9
million. In addition, transportation, gathering and storage revenues increased
$16 million, $12 million and $11 million, respectively. Largely offsetting were
higher operating and maintenance expenses, $17 million higher general and
administrative expenses, $20 million lower equity earnings, $8 million of costs
associated with cancelled pipeline construction projects and the effect of a
1998 gain of $6 million on settlement of product imbalances.

     Midstream is in the process of reorganizing its operations including the
consolidation in Tulsa of certain support functions currently located in Salt
Lake City and Houston. In connection with this, Williams offered certain
employees enhanced retirement benefits under an early retirement incentive
program in the first quarter of 2000. In addition, severance, relocation and
other exit costs will be incurred. Preliminary estimates indicate that this
reorganization may result in total pre-tax charges to first-quarter 2000
operating results of approximately $15 million to $17 million. Midstream expects
one-year cost savings to exceed these charges.

     PETROLEUM SERVICES' revenues increased $462 million, or 19 percent, due
primarily to $347 million higher refinery revenues (including $99 million higher
intra-segment sales to the travel centers/convenience stores which are
eliminated), $166 million higher travel center/convenience store sales, $74
million higher revenues from growth in fleet management and mobile computer
technology operations, $26 million in revenues from a petrochemical plant
acquired in March 1999 and $23 million in revenues from terminalling operations
acquired in January and August 1999. Partially offsetting these increases was a
$90 million decrease in pipeline construction revenues following substantial
completion of the project. This refined products pipeline, in which Williams has
a 31.5 percent ownership interest, is awaiting final approval of an
environmental assessment and is expected to come on line in 2000. The $347
million increase in refinery revenues reflects a $262 million increase from 21
percent higher average sales prices and an $81 million increase from 7 percent
higher refined product volumes sold. The increase in refined product volumes
sold follows refinery expansions and improvements in mid-1999 and late-1998
which increased capacity. The $166 million increase in travel center/convenience
store sales reflects $79 million from a 16 percent increase in gasoline and
diesel sales volumes, $52 million from an 8 cent per gallon increase in average
gasoline and diesel sales prices and $35 million higher merchandise sales. Both
the number of travel centers/convenience stores and average per-store sales in
1999 increased as compared to 1998.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $438.8 million, or 20 percent, due
primarily to $340 million higher refining costs, $156 million higher travel
center/convenience store cost of sales (including $99 million higher
intra-segment purchases from the refineries which are eliminated), $71 million
higher costs from growth in the fleet management and mobile computer technology
operations, $27 million higher travel center/convenience store operating costs,
$14 million of costs from the petrochemical plant acquired in March 1999 and $13
million higher terminalling costs related primarily to the terminalling
operations acquired in 1999. Partially offsetting these increases were $87
million lower pipeline construction costs related to the project previously
discussed. The $340 million increase in refining costs reflects $252 million
from higher crude supply costs and other related per-unit cost of sales, $66
million associated with increased volumes sold and $22 million higher operating
costs at the refineries. The higher refinery operating costs are a result of
increased maintenance activity and refinery expansions completed in 1999 and
1998. The $156 million increase in travel center/convenience store cost of sales
reflects $71 million from increased gasoline and diesel sales volumes, $56
million from increased average gasoline and diesel purchase prices and $29
million higher merchandise cost of sales reflecting increased volumes.

                                       F-5


     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $28 million due, in
part, to increased media/ customer relations activities, business development
and the additional terminals and travel centers in 1999.

     Segment profit increased $20.1 million, or 14 percent, due primarily to the
effects of a $15.5 million accrual in 1998 for potential refunds to
transportation customers following a court ruling requiring such refunds and the
settlement in 1999 of this litigation for $6.5 million less than accrued. In
addition, segment profit increased due to $15 million from increased refined
product volumes sold, $12 million from activities at the petrochemical plant
acquired in March 1999 and $10 million from increased terminalling activities
following the 1999 acquisitions. Also contributing to increased segment profit
were $10 million from higher average per-unit refinery margins, $7 million from
higher gasoline and diesel sales volumes, $7 million higher gross profit from
increased travel center/convenience store merchandise activity, $5 million of
margins on product sales from transportation, $4 million of refinery-related
storage fee revenue and the recovery of $4 million of environmental expenses
previously incurred. Largely offsetting these increases were $27 million and $22
million of increased operating costs at the travel centers/convenience stores
and the refineries, respectively, and $28 million higher selling, general and
administrative expenses.

COMMUNICATIONS

     NETWORK'S revenues increased $210.3 million, or 108 percent, due primarily
to $147 million of business growth from data and switched voice services, $45
million increased revenue from dark fiber leases accounted for as sales-type
leases on the newly constructed digital fiber-optic network and $16 million
higher consulting and outsourcing revenues.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $255.3 million, or 152 percent, due
primarily to $99 million higher off-net capacity costs associated with providing
customer services prior to completion of the new network, $49 million higher
operations and maintenance expenses on the newly completed portions of the
network, $29 million of construction costs associated with the dark fiber leases
accounted for as sales-type leases, $28 million higher depreciation expense as
portions of the new network were placed into service, $24 million higher local
access connection costs, $17 million higher costs of consulting and outsourcing
services and $5 million of higher leasing costs for equipment location space in
data centers.

     Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $58.7 million, or
111 percent, due primarily to costs associated with adding resources and
infrastructure required to increase and serve a growing customer base as more of
the network is installed and lit, including $20 million of costs associated with
the development of voice services in 1999.

     Segment loss increased $103.3 million, from a $26.3 million loss in 1998 to
a $129.6 million loss in 1999, due primarily to the $58.7 million increase in
selling, general and administrative expenses, losses experienced from providing
customer services off-net prior to completion of the new network and $28 million
higher depreciation expense, slightly offset by $16 million of profit from dark
fiber leases accounted for as sales-type leases.

     As each phase of the ongoing construction of the planned 33,000 mile
full-service wholesale communications network goes into service, revenues and
costs are expected to increase. During 1999, 7,000 miles of new network were
added increasing the network to about 26,000 miles at December 31, 1999. The
remaining 7,000 miles are planned to come on line during 2000. As the network is
completed, most of the current off-net traffic will move onto the network
resulting in improved profitability. This business is expected to contribute an
increasing percentage of consolidated revenues but is not expected to contribute
significantly to segment profit until 2001. The February 8, 1999, announcement
by Williams of a 20-year agreement with SBC Communications, under which Network
will become the preferred provider of nationwide long-distance voice and data
services for SBC Communications, will contribute to the expected network revenue
increase in 2000. In addition, during late 1999 and early 2000 Communications
announced agreements with several parties that will provide an aggregate $930
million of revenue over the next 25 years.

     SOLUTIONS' revenues increased $39.2 million, or 3 percent, due primarily to
$25 million higher sales from new systems and upgrades and $9 million of
professional services revenues following an October 1998 acquisition.

                                       F-6


     Costs and operating expenses increased $26 million, or 3 percent, due
primarily to an increase in cost of sales commensurate with the increase in
revenues. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $29 million, or
7 percent, due primarily to $26 million higher technological and infrastructure
support costs largely associated with business integration issues, the
implementation of new systems and processes and consulting services in support
of sales efforts. Selling, general and administrative expenses also increased
due to an $11 million higher depreciation and amortization, an $11 million
increase in the provision for uncollectible trade receivables reflecting
unresolved billing and collection issues and $3 million of expense associated
with a Williams-wide incentive program. Partially offsetting these increases
were the effect of a $6 million accrual in 1998 for modification of an employee
benefit program associated with vesting of paid time off and $12 million of cost
reductions in commissions, telephone and video conferencing, and office employee
travel and entertainment expenses.

     Segment loss increased $10.5 million, or 19 percent, due primarily to $29
million of higher selling, general and administrative expenses, partially offset
by a $10 million increase in margins on ongoing operations, the effect in 1998
of $6 million of charges related to information systems cancellations and $4
million realized on the sale of rights to future cash flows from equipment lease
renewals. Although Solutions' results are expected to improve next year, it is
still expected to experience a segment loss in 2000.

     STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS' revenues increased $26.6 million, or 13 percent, due
primarily to $26 million higher revenue from an Australian telecommunications
operation acquired in August 1998 and $26 million of revenues from a Mexican
telecommunications company acquired in October 1998, partially offset by the $15
million effect of the July 1999 sale of the audio and video conferencing and
closed-circuit video broadcasting businesses and $12 million higher equity
losses from an investment in ATL-Algar Telecomm Leste S.A. (ATL), a Brazilian
telecommunications business which became operational in January 1999.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $25.9 million, or 13 percent, due
primarily to $42 million higher costs from the Australian and Mexican operations
acquired in 1998, partially offset by the $16 million effect of the July 1999
sale of the audio and video conferencing and closed-circuit video broadcasting
businesses. Increases in selling, general and administrative expenses of $27
million from the Australian and Mexican acquisitions were offset by the $14
million effect of the July 1999 sale of the audio and video conferencing and
closed-circuit video broadcasting businesses and lower costs related to the
video transmission business.

     Other expense -- net in 1999 includes a $28.4 million loss relating to the
sales of certain audio and video conferencing and closed-circuit video
broadcasting businesses (see Note 5) and $5.5 million of asset impairment
charges relating to management's decision to abandon the wireless remote
monitoring, meter reading equipment and related services business. Other
expense -- net in 1998 includes a $23.2 million write-down related to the
abandonment of a venture involved in the technology and transmission of business
information for news and educational purposes (see Note 5).

     Segment loss increased $11.4 million, from a $112.6 million loss in 1998 to
a $124 million loss in 1999, due primarily to the $33.9 million of losses and
asset impairment charges in 1999 and $31 million higher losses from the start-up
activities of the Australian and Brazilian communications operations, partially
offset by the $23.2 million asset write-down in 1998 and a $16 million effect of
businesses that were generating losses that have been sold or otherwise exited.

OTHER

     OTHER revenues increased $46.2 million, or 68 percent, due primarily to $21
million higher Venezuelan gas compression revenues, $26 million of rental income
from Gas Pipeline for office space (eliminated in consolidation) and $6 million
of revenues for operating a Venezuelan crude oil terminal, partially offset by
$10 million higher equity investment losses. The $21 million higher gas
compression revenues reflect the effect of a high pressure unit which became
operational in September 1998, partially offset by the effect of operational
problems experienced in early 1999. The $10 million higher equity investment
losses resulted from increased interest expense experienced by another Brazilian
communications company.

                                       F-7


     Segment profit increased $5.9 million, from $2.5 million in 1998 to $8.4
million in 1999, due primarily to a $9 million improvement in Venezuelan gas
compression operations and the effect of $5.6 million of international
investment fund write-downs in 1998, partially offset by $10 million higher
equity investment losses.

CONSOLIDATED

     GENERAL CORPORATE EXPENSES decreased $21.3 million, or 24 percent, due
primarily to MAPCO merger-related costs of $29 million included in 1998 general
corporate expenses. Interest accrued increased $152.9 million, or 30 percent,
due primarily to the $142 million effect of higher borrowing levels including
Communications' debt issuances and the July 1999 issuance of additional public
debt by Williams. In addition, average interest rates were slightly higher than
in 1998. These increases were slightly offset by a $26.2 million decrease in
interest on rate refund liabilities including a $10.6 million favorable
adjustment related to the reduction of certain rate refund liabilities in
second-quarter 1999 (see Note 19). Interest capitalized increased $39.2 million,
or 128 percent, due primarily to increased capital expenditures for the
fiber-optic network and pipeline construction projects and reclassifications
totaling $10 million related to Williams' equity investment in the Discovery
pipeline project (offset in Midstream Gas & Liquids' segment profit), partially
offset by lower capital expenditures for international investments. Investing
income increased $42.9 million due primarily to higher interest income
associated with the investment of proceeds from Communications' equity and debt
offerings and $12 million of dividends in 1999 from international investment
funds. Other income (expense) -- net is $15.8 million favorable as compared to
1998 due primarily to 1998 litigation loss accruals and other settlement
adjustments totaling $11 million related to assets previously sold.

     The $54 million, or 50 percent, increase in the provision for income taxes
on continuing operations is the result of higher pre-tax income and a higher
effective income tax rate in 1999. The effective income tax rate in 1999 exceeds
the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effects of state income taxes,
losses of foreign entities not deductible for U.S. tax purposes and the impact
of goodwill not deductible for tax purposes related to assets sold during 1999
(see Note 5). The effective income tax rate in 1998 exceeds the federal
statutory rate due primarily to the effects of state income taxes and the
effects of non-deductible costs, including goodwill amortization.

     The $65.2 million 1999 extraordinary gain results from the sale of
Williams' retail propane business (see Note 7). The $4.8 million 1998
extraordinary loss results from the early extinguishment of debt (see Note 7).

     The $5.6 million 1999 change in accounting principle relates to the
adoption of Statement of Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up
Activities" (see Note 1).

  1998 vs. 1997

     CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW. Williams' revenues decreased $591 million, or 7
percent, due primarily to the $384 million impact in 1998 of reporting certain
revenues net of costs within Energy Services (see Note 1) and lower petroleum
products and natural gas liquids sales prices. Favorably affecting revenues were
higher revenues from Communications' equipment sales and services activities and
dark fiber lease revenues, higher power services revenues and increased
petroleum products sales volumes.

     Segment costs and expenses decreased $290 million, or 4 percent, due
primarily to the $384 million impact in 1998 of reporting certain costs net in
revenues within Energy Services (see Note 1) and lower purchase prices for
petroleum products. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher costs and
expenses within Communications, costs associated with increased petroleum
products sales volumes, higher power services costs and $143 million of higher
charges in 1998 as compared to 1997. The 1998 charges include $74 million
related to contractual and regulatory issues, $37 million of asset impairments,
$51 million of MAPCO merger-related expenses, and a $31 million accrual for
modification of an employee benefit program associated with vesting of paid time
off. Included in 1997 are charges totaling $50 million for asset impairments.

                                       F-8


     Operating income decreased $296 million, or 29 percent, due primarily to a
$103 million decrease at Energy Services, a $135 million decrease at
Communications and the $51 million of MAPCO merger-related expenses. Energy
Services' decrease reflects a decline in natural gas trading revenues, losses
from retail natural gas and electric activities, lower per-unit liquids margins
and a $15.5 million accrual for potential refunds, partially offset by increased
electric power services activities. Communications' decrease reflects higher
selling, general and administrative expenses, including costs associated with
infrastructure growth and improvement, and losses experienced from providing
customer services off-net prior to completion of the new network. Income from
continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary gain (loss) and change
in accounting principle decreased $429 million, or 63 percent, due primarily to
the lower operating income, $44 million higher net interest expense resulting
from continued expansion and new projects, the effect of a $45 million gain in
1997 on the sale of an interest in a subsidiary and the effect of a $66 million
gain in 1997 on the sale of assets.

GAS PIPELINE

     GAS PIPELINE'S revenues increased $4.7 million due primarily to the $26
million impact of expansion projects placed into service in 1998 and late 1997,
$10 million higher revenues related to new services and increased cost recovery,
a 1998 adjustment of $11 million related to new rates placed into effect May 1,
1997, the 1998 reversal of a $7 million accrual for other regulatory issues
initially recorded in 1997, the $10 million effect of unfavorable adjustments in
1997 to rate refund liabilities and demand charge reserves and $5 million of
favorable adjustments to rate refund liabilities and demand charge reserves in
1998. These increases were substantially offset by $43 million lower
reimbursable costs passed through to customers (offset in costs and operating
expenses), the reversal in 1997 of a $12 million potential refund associated
with the sale of working gas in a prior year, the $4 million effect of the
favorable resolution of certain contractual issues in 1997 and a $3.5 million
1997 gain on the sale of system balancing gas.

     Costs and operating expenses decreased $46 million, or 6 percent, due
primarily to $37 million lower reimbursable costs passed through to customers
and $15 million lower operation and maintenance expenses, partially offset by
the effect of a $5.4 million settlement received in 1997 related to a prior rate
proceeding and a $4 million accrual related to the modification of an employee
benefit program associated with the vesting of paid time off.

     Other expense -- net in 1998 includes a $58.4 million charge related to
certain long-term gas supply contracts entered into in 1982. The charge
represents an estimate, based on developments in 1998, of natural gas costs
incurred in prior years that will not be recoverable from customers (see Note
19).

     Segment profit decreased $4.3 million, or 1 percent, due primarily to the
$58.4 million accrual for costs related to certain long-term gas supply
contracts, $6 million higher depreciation related to expansions placed in
service and the effects of certain 1997 transactions including the reversal of a
$12 million potential refund associated with the sale of working gas in a prior
year, a $4 million favorable resolution of certain contractual issues, the
receipt of a $5.4 million settlement and a $3.5 million gain from the sale of
system balancing gas. These decreases were substantially offset by the $26
million revenue effect of expansion projects placed into service in 1998 and
late 1997, $10 million higher revenues related to new services and increased
cost recovery, $15 million lower operation and maintenance expenses, the $14
million combined favorable effect of 1998 and 1997 rate refund liability
adjustments, an adjustment of $11 million related to the 1998 settlement of new
rates placed into effect May 1, 1997 and the effect of a $5 million accrual for
gas purchase contract settlement costs in 1997.

ENERGY SERVICES

     ENERGY MARKETING & TRADING'S revenues decreased $337.7 million, or 15
percent, due to a $13.2 million decrease in trading revenues and a $324.5
million decrease in non-trading revenues. The $13.2 million decrease in trading
revenues is due primarily to $50 million lower revenues from natural gas
origination, price-risk management and physical trading, largely offset by $32
million higher electric power trading margins associated with business growth in
this area. The $50 million decrease in natural gas trading reflects lower

                                       F-9


margins, the unfavorable market movement against the natural gas portfolio and
the adverse market and supply conditions which resulted from Hurricane George in
September 1998, partially offset by the $24 million favorable effect of certain
contract settlements and terminations.

     The $324.5 million decrease in non-trading revenues is due primarily to the
$384 million effect in 1998 of reporting revenues on a net basis for certain
natural gas liquids operations previously reported on a "gross" basis (see Note
1) and $95 million lower crude and refined products marketing revenues. In
addition, retail propane revenues decreased $59 million due to the $35 million
effect of lower volumes following unseasonably warm weather in 1998 as compared
to 1997 and the $24 million effect of lower average propane sales prices.
Partially offsetting these decreases were $211 million higher electric power
services revenues associated with new power activity in southern California.

     Costs and operating expenses associated with non-trading activities
decreased $407 million, or 19 percent, due primarily to the $384 million impact
in 1998 of reporting revenues on a net basis for certain natural gas liquids
trading operations previously reported on a "gross" basis (see Note 1) and $104
million lower crude and refined product purchases. In addition, retail propane
cost of sales decreased $55 million due to the $21 million effect of lower
volumes and the $34 million effect of lower average propane purchase costs.
These decreases were partially offset by $156 million of costs related to new
electric power activity in southern California.

     Segment profit decreased $14.4 million, or 27 percent, due primarily to the
$50 million decline in revenues from natural gas trading activities discussed
above, $43 million of additional losses from retail natural gas and electric
activities and the effect of a $6 million recovery in 1997 of an account
previously written off as a bad debt. The $43 million of losses from retail
natural gas and electric activities includes $17 million of credit losses and
$14 million of asset impairments (included in other expense -- net). The $14
million asset impairment is associated with the company's decision to change
focus from selling to small commercial and residential customers to large end
users (see Note 5). The retail natural gas and electric losses also reflect
costs incurred to penetrate new markets. Offsetting these decreases were $60
million of higher electric power services profits, $17 million lower retail
propane operating expenses and $7 million higher natural gas liquids trading
profits.

     EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION'S revenues increased $9.2 million, or 7 percent,
due primarily to the recognition of $22 million of additional deferred income
resulting from a 1997 transaction that transferred certain nonoperating economic
benefits to a third party and $8 million from a 14 percent increase in company-
owned production, partially offset by the $25 million effect of lower average
natural gas sales prices for company-owned production and for sale of volumes
from the Royalty Trust and royalty interest owners.

     Segment profit decreased $3.1 million, or 10 percent, due primarily to $13
million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization, $6 million higher
nonproducing leasehold amortization, $2 million higher dry hole costs and $2
million of leasehold impairment costs, partially offset by the $22 million
increased recognition of deferred income.

     MIDSTREAM GAS & LIQUIDS' revenues decreased $158.7 million, or 15 percent,
due primarily to $60 million lower natural gas liquids sales from processing
activities reflecting a decline in average liquids sales prices, and the $44
million effect of the shutdown of the Canadian liquids marketing operations in
late 1997. Revenues also declined due to $18 million lower natural gas liquids
pipeline transportation revenues reflecting 3 percent lower shipments, the
passthrough of $9 million lower operating costs to customers, adjustments of $14
million related to new rates placed into effect in 1997 for Midstream's
regulated gathering activities (offset in costs and operating expenses) and the
effect of an $8 million receipt in 1997 of business interruption insurance
proceeds, slightly offset by $7 million higher gathering revenues and $8 million
associated with a 4 percent increase in natural gas liquids sales volumes.

     Costs and operating expenses decreased $107 million, or 16 percent, due
primarily to the $50 million effect of the shutdown of the Canadian liquids
marketing operations, $14 million of rate adjustments related to Midstream's
regulated gathering activities, $9 million lower costs passed through to
customers, $15 million lower fuel and replacement gas purchases, and lower
natural gas liquids pipeline transportation costs.

                                      F-10


     Other expense -- net in 1998 includes a loss of approximately $9 million
related to the retirement of certain assets and $6 million of unfavorable
litigation loss provisions, partially offset by a $6 million gain from the
settlement of product imbalances.

     Segment profit decreased $56.6 million, or 20 percent, due primarily to $45
million of lower per-unit liquids margins, decreased pipeline transportation
shipments, the $9 million loss related to retirement of certain assets and the
effect of an $8 million business interruption insurance receipt in 1997,
slightly offset by $7 million higher gathering revenues.

     PETROLEUM SERVICES' revenues increased $7.1 million due primarily to $213
million lower refinery revenues (including $28 million lower intra-segment sales
to the travel centers/convenience stores which are eliminated) and $17 million
lower product sales from transportation activities, significantly offset by $107
million higher pipeline construction revenue, $54 million higher travel
center/convenience store sales, and $37 million higher revenues from fleet
management and mobile computer technology operations initiated in mid-1997. The
$213 million decline in refining revenues reflects $386 million from lower
average sales prices, partially offset by $173 million from a 13 percent
increase in refined product volumes sold. The $54 million increase in travel
center/convenience store sales is due primarily to the May 1997 EZ-Serve
acquisition, additional travel centers and increased per-store merchandise
sales. Increases of $101 million in gasoline and diesel sales volumes and $47
million higher merchandise sales were partially offset by a $94 million impact
of lower average retail gasoline and diesel sales prices.

     Costs and expenses increased $36 million, or 2 percent, due primarily to
$102 million of pipeline construction costs, $46 million higher travel
center/convenience store merchandise purchases and operating costs resulting
from the EZ-Serve acquisition, additional travel centers and increased per-store
sales, $41 million higher costs from fleet management and mobile computer
technology operations, $24 million higher general and administrative expenses
and a $15.5 million accrual for potential transportation rate refunds to
customers (included in other expense -- net) (see Note 19). Substantially
offsetting these increases were a $213 million decrease from refining operations
and $15 million lower cost of product sales from transportation activities. The
$24 million increase in general and administrative expenses is due, in part, to
increased activities in human resources development, investor/media/customer
relations and business development. The $213 million decrease from refining
operations reflects a $366 million decrease due to lower average crude oil
purchase prices, partially offset by a $146 million increase related to an
increase in processed barrels sold and $7 million higher operating costs at the
Memphis refinery. Travel center/convenience store gasoline and diesel cost of
sales remained flat (including $28 million lower intra-segment purchases from
the refineries which are eliminated) as a $91 million increase from higher sales
volumes was offset by lower average purchase prices.

     Segment profit decreased $28.5 million, or 16 percent, due primarily to the
$15.5 million accrual for potential refunds to transportation customers, $7
million higher operating costs due to increased production levels at the Memphis
refinery, $24 million higher general and administrative expenses and a $4.4
million accrual for modification of an employee benefit program associated with
vesting of paid time off, partially offset by $6 million higher refinery gross
margins, $6 million higher product transportation revenues, $7 million increased
profits from travel center/convenience store operations and $5 million from
pipeline construction activities.

COMMUNICATIONS

     NETWORK'S revenues increased $151.9 million, from $43 million in 1997 to
$194.9 million in 1998, due primarily to $64 million of revenue in 1998 from
dark fiber leases accounted for as sales-type leases on the newly constructed
digital fiber-optic network, $49 million of revenues from providing fiber
services to new long-term customers and $27 million higher revenue following the
transfer of fiber assets from Strategic Investments in October 1997.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $136 million from $32 million in
1997, due primarily to $38 million of construction costs associated with the
dark fiber leases accounted for as sales-type leases, $55 million of leased
capacity costs associated with providing customer services prior to completion
of the new
                                      F-11


network, and $17 million higher operating expenses. Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased $45 million due primarily to the expansion of
the infrastructure to support the new national digital fiber-optic network,
including $8 million of increased information systems costs and $8 million for a
new national advertising campaign.

     Segment profit decreased $29.6 million, from a $3.3 million segment profit
in 1997 to a $26.3 million segment loss in 1998, due primarily to the cost of
expanding the infrastructure in support of the network construction and losses
experienced from providing customer services prior to completion of the new
network, partially offset by $26 million of profit from dark fiber leases
accounted for as sales-type leases.

     SOLUTIONS' revenues increased $160.3 million, or 13 percent, due primarily
to the April 30, 1997, combination of the Nortel customer premise equipment
sales and services operations, which contributed an additional $196 million of
revenue during the first four months of 1998. A $30 million increase in
maintenance contract revenues was more than offset by $46 million lower new
system sales and $31 million lower customer service orders due, in part, to
competitive pressures.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $116 million, or 13 percent, and
selling, general and administrative expenses increased $138 million, or 53
percent, due primarily to the combination with Nortel. Included in the overall
increase in selling, general and administrative expenses are $23 million of
increased information systems costs associated with expansion and enhancement of
the infrastructure and continued costs of maintaining multiple systems while
common systems are being developed, $36 million higher selling costs including
the effects of large increases in sales and support staff and higher sales
commissions in anticipation of a higher revenue base than actually achieved, $12
million increased provision for uncollectible trade receivables, and a $6
million accrual for modification of an employee benefit program associated with
vesting of paid time off.

     Segment profit decreased $101.4 million, from a $47.3 million segment
profit in 1997 to a $54.1 million segment loss in 1998, due primarily to the
increase in selling, general and administrative costs as described above, $6
million related to information systems cancellations and $7 million of obsolete
equipment write-downs, severance and contract loss accruals.

     STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS' revenues decreased $12.7 million, or 6 percent, due
primarily to the $14 million effect of the decision to exit the learning content
business in November 1997 and equity losses of $15 million from investing
activities in ATL, a Brazilian telecommunications business. This business is
constructing a cellular phone network scheduled to be in operation during 1999.
Partially offsetting these decreases were $11 million of revenues contributed by
an Australian telecommunications company acquired in August 1998 and a $9
million increase in audio and video conferencing and business television
revenues.

     Costs and operating expenses increased $19 million, or 11 percent, due
primarily to $11 million of costs and operating expenses related to the
Australian acquisition, $8 million higher costs of providing network services
following the transfer of fiber assets to Network in October 1997 and the $7
million effect of increased audio and video conferencing and business television
activities, partially offset by $8 million lower costs as a result of the
decision to exit the learning content business in November 1997. A $6 million,
or 7 percent, decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was also
due to the decision to exit the learning content business.

     Other expense -- net in 1998 includes a $23.2 million write-down related to
the abandonment of a venture involved in the technology and transmission of
business information for news and educational purposes (see Note 5). Other
expense -- net in 1997 includes charges totaling $29 million related primarily
to the decision and formulation of a plan to sell the learning content business
(see Note 5). During 1998, a substantial portion of the learning content
business was sold at its approximate carrying value.

     Segment loss increased $3.9 million, from a $108.7 million segment loss in
1997 to a $112.6 million segment loss in 1998, due primarily to the $23.2
million write-down in 1998 and $15 million of equity losses in 1998 from the
Brazilian communications business, substantially offset by the effect of $29
million of charges in 1997.

                                      F-12


OTHER

     OTHER segment profit decreased $8.9 million, or 78 percent, due primarily
to $5 million higher general and administrative expenses as compared to 1997 and
$5.6 million of write-downs of international cost investments to market.

CONSOLIDATED

     GENERAL CORPORATE EXPENSES decreased $5.9 million, or 6 percent, due
primarily to expense savings realized following the MAPCO merger, largely offset
by MAPCO merger-related costs of $29 million in 1998 compared to $10 million in
1997. Interest accrued increased $51.6 million, or 11 percent, due primarily to
higher borrowing levels including the commercial paper program and the issuance
of additional public debt, partially offset by the $52 million effect of lower
average interest rates. The lower average interest rate reflects the
fourth-quarter 1997 debt restructuring and lower rates on new 1998 borrowings as
compared to previously outstanding borrowings. Interest capitalized increased
$7.3 million, or 31 percent, due primarily to increased capital expenditures for
the fiber-optic network, the Venezuelan gas injection plant and international
investment activities. Investing income increased $13.2 million to $25.8 million
due primarily to higher interest income from advances to affiliates and
long-term notes receivable. For information concerning the $44.5 million gain on
sale of interest in subsidiary in 1997, see Note 2. The $66 million gain on
sales of assets in 1997 results from the sale of Williams' interest in the
liquids and condensate reserves in the West Panhandle field of Texas (see Note
5). Minority interest in (income) loss of consolidated subsidiaries in 1998 is
$27.8 million favorable as compared to 1997 due primarily to losses experienced
by Williams Communications Solutions, LLC which has a 30 percent interest held
by minority shareholders. Other income (expense) -- net is $19.6 million
unfavorable as compared to 1997 due primarily to 1998 litigation accruals and
other settlement adjustments totaling $11 million related to assets previously
sold, and the impact of a 1997 gain of $4 million on the termination of
interest-rate swap agreements.

     The $133.5 million, or 55 percent, decrease in the provision for income
taxes on continuing operations is primarily a result of lower pre-tax income,
partially offset by a higher effective income tax rate in 1998. The effective
income tax rate in 1998 exceeds the federal statutory rate due primarily to the
effects of state income taxes and the effects of non-deductible costs, including
goodwill amortization. The effective tax rate in 1997 exceeds the federal
statutory rate due primarily to the effects of state income taxes, substantially
offset by the effect of the non-taxable gain recognized in 1997 (see Note 2) and
income tax credits from coal-seam gas production.

     The 1998 and 1997 losses on discontinued operations are attributable to
loss provisions for contractual obligations related to the sale of the net
assets of the MAPCO coal business in 1996 (see Note 3).

     The 1998 and 1997 extraordinary losses result from the early extinguishment
of debt (see Note 7).

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY

  Liquidity

     Williams considers its liquidity to come from both internal and external
sources. Certain of those sources are available for all areas within Williams
while others can only be utilized by Communications. Williams' unrestricted
sources of liquidity, which can be utilized without limitation under existing
loan covenants, consist primarily of the following:

     - Available cash-equivalent investments of $494 million at December 31,
       1999 as compared to $377 million at December 31, 1998.

     - $475 million available under Williams' $1 billion bank-credit facility at
       December 31, 1999 as compared to $306 million at December 31, 1998.

     - $154 million available under Williams' $1.4 billion commercial paper
       program at December 31, 1999 as compared to $55 million at December 31,
       1998. The commercial paper program was increased from

                                      F-13


       $1 billion to $1.4 billion in January 1999 and is backed by a short-term
       bank-credit facility, which was also increased to $1.4 billion in January
       1999.

     - Cash generated from operations.

     - Short-term uncommitted bank lines can also be used in managing liquidity.

     Williams' sources of liquidity restricted to use by Communications consist
primarily of the following:

     - Available cash-equivalent investments and short-term investments totaling
       $1.9 billion.

     - Communications' $1.05 billion bank-credit facility under which no
       borrowings are outstanding at December 31, 1999.

     In addition, there are outstanding registration statements filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission for Williams and Northwest Pipeline, Texas
Gas Transmission and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line (each a wholly owned
subsidiary of Williams). At March 1, 2000, approximately $755 million of shelf
availability remains under these outstanding registration statements and may be
used to issue a variety of debt or equity securities. Interest rates and market
conditions will affect amounts borrowed, if any, under these arrangements.
Williams believes any additional financing arrangements, if required, can be
obtained on reasonable terms.

     Terms of certain borrowing agreements limit transfer of funds to Williams
from its subsidiaries, including Communications as described above. The
restrictions have not impeded, nor are they expected to impede, Williams'
ability to meet its cash requirements in the future.

     During 2000, Williams expects to fund capital and investment expenditures,
debt payments and working-capital requirements through (1) cash generated from
operations, (2) the use of the available portion of Williams' $1 billion
bank-credit facility, (3) commercial paper, (4) short-term uncommitted bank
lines, (5) private borrowings and/or (6) debt or equity public offerings. In
addition, Communications' capital and investment expenditures, debt payments and
working-capital requirements are also expected to be funded with the remaining
proceeds from its 1999 initial equity and high-yield debt offerings and its
$1.05 billion bank-credit facility.

  Operating Activities

     Cash provided by continuing operating activities was: 1999 -- $1.5 billion;
1998 -- $678 million; 1997 -- $988 million. The increases in receivables and
accounts payable of $784 million and $892 million, respectively, reflect
increased electric power trading and other activity at Energy Marketing &
Trading. The $134 million increase in inventories includes increases in the
refined product and crude oil inventories at Energy Marketing & Trading
including the effect of the petrochemical plant acquisition. The $288 million
increase in accrued liabilities is due primarily to higher network construction
cost accruals of $264 million and higher accrued payroll, accrued interest,
income taxes payable and Communications' deferred revenue, substantially offset
by the payment in first-quarter 1999 of $100 million in connection with the
assignment of Williams' obligations under a gas purchase contract to an
unaffiliated third party (see Note 19), the payments in 1999 of $156 million for
rate refunds to natural gas customers and the second-quarter 1999 reductions to
rate refund liabilities (see Note 19). In addition, during 1999 Williams
received net federal income tax refunds totaling $387 million (see Note 6).

  Financing Activities

     Net cash provided by financing activities was: 1999 -- $4.4 billion;
1998 -- $1.8 billion; and 1997 -- $424 million. Long-term debt proceeds, net of
principal payments, were $2.7 billion, $1.8 billion and $18 million during 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively. Notes payable proceeds, net of notes payable
payments, were $210 million and $622 million during 1999 and 1997, respectively.
Notes payable payments, net of notes payable proceeds, were $139 million during
1998. The increase in net new borrowings during 1999, 1998 and 1997 reflects
borrowings to fund capital expenditures, investments and acquisition of
businesses.
                                      F-14


     In October 1999, Williams Communications Group, Inc. (WCG) completed an
initial public equity offering, private equity offerings and public debt
offerings which yielded total net proceeds of approximately $3.5 billion. The
initial public equity offering yielded net proceeds of approximately $738
million (see Note 15). Additional shares of common stock were privately sold in
concurrent investments by SBC Communications Inc., Intel Corporation, and
Telefonos de Mexico for proceeds of $738.5 million. These transactions resulted
in a reduction of Williams' ownership interest in WCG from 100 percent to 85.3
percent. Concurrent with these equity transactions, WCG issued high-yield public
debt of approximately $2 billion. Proceeds from these equity and debt
transactions were used to repay Communications' 1999 borrowings under an interim
short-term bank-credit facility and the $1.05 billion bank-credit agreement, and
will also be used to fund future Communications' operating losses, continued
construction of Communications' national fiber-optic network (scheduled for
completion by the end of 2000) and other expansion opportunities.

     The proceeds from issuance of Williams common stock in 1999, 1998 and 1997
are primarily from exercise of stock options under the stock plans.

     During 1999, Williams received proceeds of $175 million from the sale of
Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. During 1998,
Williams received proceeds totaling $335 million from the sale of limited
partnership and limited-liability company member minority interests to outside
investors (see Note 14).

     During the first quarter of 1998, Williams completed the restructuring of a
portion of its debt portfolio that was initiated in September 1997. As of
December 31, 1997, Williams had paid approximately $1.4 billion to redeem
approximately $1.3 billion of debt with stated interest rates in excess of 8.8
percent, resulting in an extraordinary loss of $79.1 million. During
first-quarter 1998, Williams paid an additional $54.4 million to redeem higher
interest rate debt for a $4.8 million extraordinary loss. The restructuring was
completed with the fourth-quarter 1997 and first-quarter 1998 issuance of
approximately $1.5 billion of debentures and notes with interest rates ranging
from 5.91 percent to 6.625 percent and maturities from 2000 to 2008.

     Long-term debt at December 31, 1999 was $9.2 billion, compared with $6.4
billion at December 31, 1998 and $5.4 billion at December 31, 1997. At December
31, 1999 and 1997, $404 million and $696 million, respectively, of current debt
obligations were classified as non-current obligations based on Williams' intent
and ability to refinance on a long-term basis. The 1999 increase in long-term
debt is due primarily to $2 billion in public debt issued by Communications in
October 1999 and the issuance of $700 million of public debt by Williams in July
1999. The long-term debt to debt-plus-equity ratio was 62.3 percent at December
31, 1999, compared to 59.9 percent and 55.8 percent at December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively. If short-term notes payable and long-term debt due within
one year are included in the calculations, these ratios would be 65.9 percent,
64.7 percent and 59.1, respectively.

  Investing Activities

     Net cash used by investing activities was: 1999 -- $5.3 billion;
1998 -- $2.1 billion; and 1997 -- $1.5 billion. Capital expenditures of
Communications, primarily for the construction of the fiber-optic network, were
$1.7 billion in 1999, $304 million in 1998 and $276 million in 1997. Capital
expenditures of Energy Services, primarily to expand and modernize gathering and
processing facilities and refineries, were $1.2 billion in 1999, $707 million in
1998 and $469 million in 1997. Capital expenditures of Gas Pipeline, primarily
to expand and modernize systems, were $360 million in 1999, $472 million in 1998
and $419 million in 1997. Budgeted capital expenditures and investments for all
business units for 2000 are estimated to be approximately $4 billion, including
the fiber-optic network construction ($2 billion), expansion and modernization
of pipeline systems, gathering and processing facilities, and refineries,
international investment activities and building construction.

     During first-quarter 1999, Williams purchased a company with a
petrochemical plant and natural gas liquids transportation, storage and other
facilities for $163 million in cash. Also during 1999, Williams made various
cash investments and advances totaling $696 million including $265 million to
increase its investment in ATL (a Brazilian telecommunications business), a $75
million equity investment in and a $75 million loan to AB Mazeikiu Nafta,
Lithuania's national oil company, $78 million in various natural gas and
petroleum
                                      F-15


products pipeline joint ventures, and other joint ventures and investments. In
addition, Williams made $139 million of investments in the Alliance natural gas
pipeline and processing plant during 1999 of which $93.5 million was financed
with a note payable. In December 1999, Williams sold its retail propane business
to Ferrellgas Partners L.P. (Ferrellgas) for $268.7 million in cash and $175
million in senior common units of Ferrellgas. Subsequent to December 31, 1999,
Williams sold a portion of its investment in ATL for aggregate proceeds of $148
million.

     During 1998, Williams made a $100 million advance to and a $150 million
investment in another telecommunications business in Brazil. In addition, during
1998 Williams made an $85 million investment in a Texas refined petroleum
products pipeline joint venture.

     On April 30, 1997, Williams and Northern Telecom (Nortel) combined their
customer-premise equipment sales and services operations into a limited
liability company, Williams Communications Solutions, LLC. In addition, Williams
paid $68 million to Nortel. See Note 2 for additional information. During 1997,
Williams also purchased a 20 percent interest in a foreign telecommunications
business for $65 million in cash, made a $59 million cash investment in the 50
percent owned Discovery pipeline project and received proceeds of $66 million
from the sale of interests in the West Panhandle field.

  Other Commitments

     Energy Marketing & Trading has entered into certain contracts giving
Williams the right to receive fuel conversion and certain other services for
purposes of generating electricity. At December 31, 1999, annual estimated
committed payments under these contracts range from $20 million to $383 million,
resulting in total committed payments over the next 23 years of approximately $7
billion.

     Williams has also entered into an agreement giving Williams a 25 year right
to use a portion of a third party's wireless local capacity. Williams will pay a
total of $400 million over four years for this right. As of December 31, 1999,
Williams has paid approximately $172 million.

  New Accounting Standards

     See Note 1 for a discussion of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,"
Statement of Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities,"
Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 98-10, "Accounting for Contracts Involved
in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 43, "Real Estate Sales, an
Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 66," and Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101,
"Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements."

  Effects of Inflation

     Williams' cost increases in recent years have benefited from relatively low
inflation rates during that time. Approximately 44 percent of Williams'
property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline, approximately 40 percent is at
Energy Services and approximately 13 percent is at Communications. Approximately
84 percent of Gas Pipeline's property, plant and equipment has been acquired or
constructed since 1995, a period of relatively low inflation. Gas Pipeline is
subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts
in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices,
Williams believes it will be allowed to recover and earn a return based on
increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost-based regulation
along with competition and other market factors may limit the ability to recover
such increased costs. Within Energy Services, operating costs are influenced to
a greater extent by specific price changes in oil and gas and related
commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude, refined product,
natural gas and natural gas liquids prices are particularly sensitive to OPEC
production levels and/or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand
balance in the near future. See Market Risk Disclosures on page 36 for
additional information concerning the impact of specific price changes.
Substantially all of the Communications' property, plant and equipment is for
the recent fiber-optic network construction. The activities of Communications
have historically not been significantly affected by the effects of inflation.

                                      F-16


  Environmental

     Williams is a participant in certain environmental activities in various
stages involving assessment studies, cleanup operations and/or remedial
processes. The sites, some of which are not currently owned by Williams (see
Note 19), are being monitored by Williams, other potentially responsible
parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental
authorities in a coordinated effort. In addition, Williams maintains an active
monitoring program for its continued remediation and cleanup of certain sites
connected with its refined products pipeline activities. Williams has both joint
and several liability in some of these activities and sole responsibility in
others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such cleanup activities,
after payments by other parties, are approximately $93 million, all of which is
accrued at December 31, 1999. Williams expects to seek recovery of approximately
$37 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates
and approximately $19 million of accrued costs from states in accordance with
laws permitting reimbursement of certain expenses associated with underground
storage tank containment problems and repairs. Williams will fund these costs
from operations and/or available bank-credit facilities. The actual costs
incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent of contamination
discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or
other governmental authorities, and other factors.

     Williams is subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean
Air Act Amendments of 1990 which require the EPA to issue new regulations. In
September 1998, the EPA promulgated new rules designed to mitigate the migration
of ground-level ozone in certain states. Williams estimates that capital
expenditures necessary to install emission control devices over the next five
years to comply with these new rules will be between $248 million and $293
million. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans
developed by each state to comply with these regulations. In December 1999, new
standards promulgated by the EPA for tailpipe emissions and the content of
sulfur in gasoline were announced. Williams estimates that capital expenditures
necessary to bring its two refineries into compliance over the next six years
will be approximately $122 million. The actual costs incurred will depend on the
final implementation plans.

     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line (Transco) received a letter stating that the
U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), at the request of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, intends to file a civil action against Transco arising from
its waste management practices at Transco's compressor stations and metering
stations in eleven states from Texas to New Jersey. DOJ stated in the letter
that its complaint will seek civil penalties and injunctive relief under federal
environmental laws. DOJ and Transco are discussing a settlement. While no
specific amount was proposed, DOJ stated that any settlement must include an
appropriate civil penalty for the alleged violations. Transco cannot reasonably
estimate the amount of its potential liability, if any, at this time. However,
Transco believes it has substantially addressed environmental concerns on its
system through ongoing voluntary remediation and management programs.

     Williams Field Services (WFS), an Energy Services subsidiary, received a
Notice of Violation (NOV) from EPA in February 2000. WFS received a
contemporaneous letter from DOJ indicating that DOJ will also be involved in the
matter. The NOV alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at a gas processing
plant. WFS intends to defend this matter, but cannot reasonably estimate the
amount of potential liability, if any, at this time. EPA, DOJ, and WFS have
scheduled settlement negotiation meetings beginning in March 2000.

  Year 2000 Compliance

     Williams encountered only minor problems associated with the date change
from 1999 to 2000, and experienced no business disruptions. The total cost of
its enterprise-wide project to prepare for the year 2000 date change was $47
million. Williams believes that limited and insignificant continued exposure to
year 2000 complications remains.

     Williams initiated its enterprise-wide project in 1997 to address the year
2000 compliance issue for both traditional information technology areas and
non-traditional areas, including embedded technology that is prevalent
throughout the company. This project focused on all technology hardware and
software, external interfaces with customers and suppliers, operations process
control, automation and instrumentation systems,
                                      F-17


and facility items. The phases of the project were awareness, inventory and
assessment, renovation and replacement, testing and validation and contingency
planning. During the inventory and assessment phase, all systems with possible
year 2000 implications were inventoried and classified into five categories: 1)
highest, business critical, 2) high, compliance necessary within a short period
of time following January 1, 2000, 3) medium, compliance necessary within 30
days from January 1, 2000, 4) low, compliance desirable but not required, and 5)
unnecessary. Categories 1 through 3 were designated as critical and were the
major focus of this project. In 1998, Williams initiated a formal communications
process with other companies with which it conducts business to determine the
extent to which those companies were addressing year 2000 compliance. Williams
has also worked directly with key business partners to reduce the risk of a
break in service or supply and with non-compliant companies to mitigate any
material adverse effect on Williams. Significant focus on the contingency plan
phase of the project took place in 1999. Contingency plans were developed for
critical business processes, critical business partners, suppliers and system
replacements that experience significant delays.

     Renovation/replacement and testing/validation of critical systems was
completed by December 31, 1999. Over the December 31, 1999 to January 4, 2000
weekend, an extensive system monitoring plan was in place with regular reporting
of results.

     Williams utilized both internal resources (consisting of a core group of
238 people) and external contractors (at a cost of approximately $11.5 million)
to complete the year 2000 compliance project. Costs incurred for new software
and hardware purchases were capitalized and other costs were expensed as
incurred. The $47 million total cost of the enterprise-wide project, including
any accelerated system replacements, was or is expected to be spent as follows:

     - Prior to 1998 and during the first quarter of 1998, Williams was
       conducting the project awareness and inventory/assessment phases of the
       project and incurred costs totaling $3 million.

     - During the second quarter of 1998, $2 million was spent on the
       renovation/replacement and testing/ validation phases and completion of
       the inventory/assessment phase.

     - The third and fourth quarters of 1998 focused on the
       renovation/replacement and testing/validation phases, and $10 million was
       incurred.

     - During the first quarter of 1999, renovation/replacement and
       testing/validation continued, contingency planning began, and $9 million
       was incurred.

     - During the second quarter of 1999, the primary focus shifted to
       testing/validation and contingency planning, and $10 million was spent.

     - The primary focus during third-quarter 1999 was contingency planning and
       final testing, and $8 million was incurred.

     - The fourth quarter of 1999 focused mainly on contingency planning and
       final testing, and $4 million was spent.

     - Approximately $1 million is estimated to be spent during the first two
       quarters of 2000 for monitoring and minor problem resolution.

     Of the $46 million incurred to date, approximately $41 million has been
expensed and approximately $5 million has been capitalized. The $1 million of
future costs for monitoring and problem resolution will be expensed. This
estimate does not include Williams' potential share of year 2000 costs that were
incurred by partnerships and joint ventures in which the company participates
but is not the operator. The costs of previously planned system replacements are
not considered to be year 2000 costs and are, therefore, excluded from the
amounts discussed above.

     The preceding discussion contains forward-looking statements including,
without limitation, statements relating to the company's expectations,
intentions, and adequate resources, that are made pursuant to the "safe harbor"
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are
cautioned that such

                                      F-18


forward-looking statements contained in the year 2000 update are based on
certain assumptions which may vary from actual results. Specifically,
management's assumptions about the final impact on the company and the total
costs to the company of the year 2000 compliance issue are based upon the
assumption that there will not be a significant future impact resulting from,
for example, problems caused by customers or suppliers that have not yet been
fully recognized, or problems with billing, payroll, or financial closing at the
quarters or year end. However, there can be no guarantee that these assumptions
are correct.

ITEM 7A. MARKET RISK DISCLOSURES

INTEREST RATE RISK

     Williams' interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to its
short-term investments, investment in Ferrellgas Partners L.P. senior common
units, debt portfolio and Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities of Trust.

     Short-term investments consist primarily of money market instruments,
short-term debt securities, such as commercial paper, asset-backed and corporate
bonds, and a mutual fund investing in short-term debt securities, which are
managed by financial institutions. Williams' investing income is subject to
interest rate risk resulting from potential future fluctuations in interest
rates on comparable investment securities. To mitigate the impact of
fluctuations in interest rates, Williams instructs the managing financial
institutions to invest only in highly liquid instruments with short-term
maturity dates. These investments were purchased with a portion of the proceeds
from Communications' initial equity and high-yield debt offerings in October
1999.

     Williams' interest rate risk exposure resulting from its debt portfolio is
influenced by short-term rates, primarily LIBOR-based borrowings from commercial
banks and the issuance of commercial paper, and long-term U.S. Treasury rates.
To mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates, Williams targets to
maintain a significant portion of its debt portfolio in fixed rate debt.
Williams also utilizes interest-rate swaps to change the ratio of its fixed and
variable rate debt portfolio based on management's assessment of future interest
rates, volatility of the yield curve and Williams' ability to access the capital
markets in a timely manner. Williams periodically enters into interest-rate
forward contracts to establish an effective borrowing rate for anticipated
long-term debt issuances. The maturity of Williams' long-term debt portfolio is
partially influenced by the life of its operating assets.

     At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the amount of Williams' fixed and variable
rate debt was at targeted levels. Williams has traditionally maintained an
investment grade credit rating as one aspect of managing its interest rate risk.
In order to fund its 2000 capital expenditure plan, Williams will need to access
various sources of liquidity, which will likely include traditional borrowing
and leasing markets. In addition, Communications will utilize the remaining
proceeds from its initial equity and high-yield debt offerings and traditional
bank borrowings to fund its 2000 capital expenditure plan.

                                      F-19


     The following tables provide information as of December 31, 1999 and 1998,
about Williams' interest rate risk sensitive instruments. For short-term
investments, investment in Ferrellgas Partners L.P. senior common units, notes
payable, long-term debt and Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
securities of Trust, the table presents principal cash flows and
weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest-rate
swaps and interest-rate forward contracts, the table presents notional amounts
and weighted-average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. Notional
amounts are used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under
the interest-rate swaps and the settlement amounts under the interest-rate
forward contracts.



                                      F-20




- ---------------

(1) LIBOR plus .60 percent through 2002, LIBOR plus .35 percent thereafter for
    1999 and LIBOR plus .30 percent for 1998.

(2) LIBOR, except $250 million notional amount maturing after 2003 is at LIBOR
    less 1.04 percent and $240 million notional amount maturing in 2002 is at
    LIBOR plus .26 percent.

(3) Counterparties have an option to cancel all outstanding swaps in 2001.

(4) LIBOR.

(5) Average lock in rate of 4.8 percent referenced to underlying Treasury
    securities having a weighted-average maturity of 10 years.

COMMODITY PRICE RISK

     Energy Marketing & Trading has trading operations that incur commodity
price risk as a consequence of providing price-risk management services to
third-party customers. The trading operations have commodity price risk exposure
associated with the crude oil, natural gas, refined products, natural gas
liquids and electricity energy markets in the United States and the natural gas
markets in Canada. The trading operations enter into energy contracts which
include forward contracts, futures contracts, option contracts, swap agreements,
commodity inventories and short- and long-term purchase and sale commitments
which involve the physical delivery of an energy commodity. These energy
contracts are valued at fair value and unrealized gains and losses from changes
in fair value are recognized in income. The trading operations are subject to
risk from changes in energy commodity market prices, the portfolio position of
its financial instruments and physical commitments, the liquidity of the market
in which the contract is transacted, changes in interest rates and credit risk.
Energy Marketing & Trading continues to manage market risk on a portfolio basis
subject to the parameters established in its trading policy. A risk control
group, independent of the trading operations, monitors compliance with the
established trading policy and measures the risk associated with the trading
portfolio.

     Energy Marketing & Trading measures the market risk in its trading
portfolio on a daily basis utilizing a value at risk methodology to estimate the
potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of its trading
operations. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the value at risk for the trading
operations was $9 million and $8 million, respectively. The change in the value
at risk between 1999 and 1998 reflects that the market

                                      F-21


risk of the trading portfolio has changed because of changes in the commodity
product composition of the portfolio, increases in the size of the portfolio and
changes in market prices. As supplemental quantitative information to further
understand the general risk levels of the trading portfolio, the average of the
actual monthly changes in the fair value of the trading portfolio for 1999 was
an increase of $4 million. Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions
and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could
be incurred from the trading portfolio. Energy Marketing & Trading's value at
risk model includes all financial instruments and physical positions and
commitments in its trading portfolio and assumes that as a result of changes in
commodity prices, there is a 97.5 percent probability that the one day loss in
the fair value of the trading portfolio will not exceed the value at risk. The
value at risk model uses historical simulation to estimate hypothetical
movements in future market prices assuming normal market conditions based upon
historical market prices. Value at risk does not consider that changing our
trading portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices
and could take longer to execute than the one-day holding period assumed in the
value at risk model.

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

     Williams has international investments that could affect the financial
results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the economic conditions in
foreign countries.

     International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $501
million and $247 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The fair
value of these investments is deemed to approximate their carrying amount as the
investments are primarily in non-publicly traded companies for which it is not
practicable to estimate the fair value of these investments. Williams continues
to believe that it can realize the carrying value of these investments
considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these
investments. International cost investments include preferred stock interests in
certain Brazilian ventures totaling $370 million and $152 million at December
31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. During 1999, the Brazilian economy experienced
significant volatility resulting in a 33 percent reduction in the value of the
Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar during the period December 31, 1998 to
December 31, 1999. An additional 20 percent change in the value of the Brazilian
real against the U.S. dollar could result in an approximate $74 million change
in the fair value of these investments. This analysis assumes a direct
correlation between the fluctuation of the Brazilian real and the value of the
investments at December 31, 1999. The ultimate duration and severity of the
conditions in Brazil remain uncertain, as does the long-term impact on interests
in the ventures. Of the remaining international investments accounted for under
the cost method at December 31, 1999 and 1998, approximately 56 percent and 73
percent, respectively, of these international investments were in Asian
countries and approximately 44 percent and 27 percent, respectively, were in
South American countries. If a 20 percent change occurred in the value of the
underlying currencies of these investments against the U.S. dollar, the fair
value of these investments at December 31, 1999 could change by approximately
$26 million assuming a direct correlation between the currency fluctuation and
the value of the investments.

     The net assets of foreign operations which are consolidated are located
primarily in Australia and Canada and approximate 2 percent and 1 percent of
Williams total net assets at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. These
foreign operations, whose functional currency is the local currency, do not have
significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in other
currencies. However, these investments do have the potential to impact Williams'
financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from
the process of re-measuring the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar.
As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies
against the U.S. dollar could have changed stockholders' equity by approximately
$23 million at December 31, 1999.

     Williams historically has not utilized derivatives or other financial
instruments to hedge the risk associated with the movement in foreign
currencies. However, Williams evaluates currency fluctuations and will consider
the use of derivative financial instruments or employment of other investment
alternatives if cash flows or investment returns so warrant.

                                      F-22


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA



                                      F-23


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Stockholders of The Williams Companies, Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of The Williams
Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1999. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 14(a). These financial
statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedules based on our audits. We did not audit the financial statements and
schedules of MAPCO Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary (see Note 2), which
statements reflect net income constituting approximately 26% of the related
consolidated financial statement total for the year ended December 31, 1997.
Those statements and schedules were audited by other auditors whose report has
been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to data included
for MAPCO Inc. for the year ended December 31, 1997, is based solely on the
report of the other auditors.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of The Williams
Companies, Inc. at December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the consolidated results of
its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, based on our audits and the
report of other auditors, the financial statement schedules referred to above,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company has given retroactive effect to the change in accounting for its crude
oil and refined products inventories from the last-in, first-out cost method of
inventory valuation to the average cost method. In addition, as also discussed
in Note 1, effective January 1, 1999, the Company changed its method of
accounting for start-up costs and, effective July 1, 1999, changed its method of
accounting for lease transactions relating to its fiber optic network.

                                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Tulsa, Oklahoma
February 17, 2000

                                      F-24


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



- ---------------

 * Certain amounts have been restated or reclassified as described in Note 1.
** Includes consumer excise taxes of $229.0 million, $192.9 million and $157.8
   million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-25


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

                                     ASSETS



- ---------------
* Certain amounts have been reclassified as described in Note 1.

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-26


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



- ---------------

* Certain amounts have been restated as described in Note 1.

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-27


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



- ---------------

 *  Certain amounts have been restated or reclassified as described in Note 1.

                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-28


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Description of business

     Operations of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams) are located
principally in the United States and are organized into three industry groups:
Gas Pipeline, Energy Services and Communications.

     Gas Pipeline is comprised of five interstate natural gas pipelines located
throughout the majority of the United States as well as investments in domestic
natural gas pipeline-related companies. The five Gas Pipeline operating segments
have been aggregated for reporting purposes and include Williams Gas Pipelines
Central, Kern River Gas Transmission, Northwest Pipeline, Texas Gas Transmission
and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line.

     Energy Services includes four operating segments: Energy Marketing &
Trading, Exploration & Production, Midstream Gas & Liquids and Petroleum
Services. Energy Marketing & Trading offers price-risk management services and
buys, sells and arranges for transportation/transmission of energy
commodities -- including natural gas and gas liquids, crude oil and refined
products, and electricity -- to local distribution companies and large
industrial and commercial customers in North America. Exploration & Production
includes hydrocarbon exploration and production activities in the Rocky Mountain
and Gulf Coast regions. Midstream Gas & Liquids is comprised of natural gas
gathering and processing facilities in the Rocky Mountain, midwest and Gulf
Coast regions, natural gas liquids pipelines in the Rocky Mountain, southwest,
midwest and Gulf Coast regions and an anhydrous ammonia pipeline in the midwest.
Petroleum Services includes petroleum refining and marketing in Alaska and the
southeast, a petroleum products pipeline and ethanol production and marketing
operations in the midwest region.

     Communications consists of three operating segments: Network, Solutions and
Strategic Investments. Network provides fiber-optic construction, transmission
and management services throughout the United States. Solutions includes
distribution and integration of communications equipment for voice and data
networks for customers throughout North America. Strategic Investments includes
operations principally located in the United States offering video, advertising
distribution and other multimedia transmission services via terrestrial and
satellite links for the broadcast industry as well as investments in domestic
communications companies and investments in foreign communications companies
located in Australia, Brazil and Chile.

  Basis of presentation

     Communications' 1998 and 1997 segment results have been restated to include
the results of investments in certain Brazilian and Australian
telecommunications projects, which had previously been reported in Other segment
revenues and profit. These investments, along with certain businesses previously
reported as Network Applications and certain investments previously reported in
Network Services, are now collectively managed and reported as Strategic
Investments. Segments previously reported as Network Services and Communications
Solutions are now reported as Network and Solutions, respectively.

     On March 28, 1998, Williams completed the acquisition of MAPCO Inc. The
transaction has been accounted for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly,
the consolidated financial statements and notes reflect the results of
operations, financial position and cash flows as if the companies had been
combined throughout the periods presented. MAPCO was engaged in the natural gas
liquids pipeline, petroleum refining and marketing and propane marketing
businesses, and became part of the Energy Services business unit. Effective
April 1, 1998, certain marketing activities were transferred from other Energy
Services segments to Energy Marketing & Trading and combined with its energy
risk trading operations. The income statement presentation relating to certain
of these operations was changed effective April 1, 1998, on a prospective basis,
to reflect these revenues net of the related costs to purchase such items.
Activity prior to this date is reflected on a "gross" basis in Energy Marketing
& Trading's segment results and in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Concurrent with completing the combination of such activities with the energy
risk trading operations

                                      F-29

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

of Energy Marketing & Trading, the related contract rights and obligations of
certain of these operations were recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at
fair value consistent with Energy Marketing & Trading's accounting policy.

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current
year classifications.

  Principles of consolidation

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Williams, its
majority-owned subsidiaries, and a subsidiary that Williams controls but owns
less than 50 percent of the voting common stock. Companies in which Williams and
its subsidiaries own 20 percent to 50 percent of the voting common stock, or
otherwise exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies
of the company, are accounted for under the equity method.

  Use of estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

  Cash and cash equivalents

     Cash and cash equivalents include demand and time deposits, certificates of
deposit and other marketable securities with maturities of three months or less
when acquired. Certain items which meet the definition of cash equivalents, but
are part of a larger pool of investments managed by financial institutions, are
included in short-term investments.

  Transportation and exchange gas imbalances

     In the course of providing transportation services to customers, the
natural gas pipelines may receive different quantities of gas from shippers than
the quantities delivered on behalf of those shippers. Additionally, the
pipelines and other Williams' subsidiaries transport gas on various pipeline
systems which may deliver different quantities of gas on their behalf than the
quantities of gas received. These transactions result in gas transportation and
exchange imbalance receivables and payables which are recovered or repaid in
cash or through the receipt or delivery of gas in the future. Settlement of
imbalances requires agreement between the pipelines and shippers as to
allocations of volumes to specific transportation contracts and timing of
delivery of gas based on operational conditions. At December 31, 1999 and 1998,
transportation and exchange gas receivables were $47.5 million and $96.4
million, respectively, and transportation and exchange gas payables were $41.7
million and $47.1 million, respectively.

  Inventory valuation

     In the fourth quarter of 1999, Williams conformed its accounting for all of
its inventories of non-trading crude oil and refined products to the
average-cost method or market, if lower, the method used for the majority of
such inventories. Previously, certain of these inventories were carried on the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method which was the inventory valuation method
used by MAPCO. At the time of the MAPCO acquisition, Williams began using its
business and risk management practices to manage such inventories, but continued
using the LIFO cost method. After taking into account its risk management
practices, Williams now believes the average-cost method for such inventories is
preferable because it provides a better measure of periodic income. In addition,
the change results in the consistent valuation of Williams' non-trading crude
oil and refined products inventories. All previously reported results have been
restated to reflect the retroactive application of this accounting change. The
accounting change increased net income for

                                      F-30

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

1999 by $21.9 million, or $.05 per diluted share, and decreased net income
previously reported for 1998 by $5.2 million, or $.01 per diluted share, and for
1997 by $16.9 million, or $.04 per diluted share. Retained earnings as of
December 31, 1996, was increased by $22.1 million.

     Other inventories are stated at cost, which is not in excess of market,
except for certain assets held for energy trading activities by Energy Marketing
& Trading, which are primarily stated at fair value. The cost of these other
inventories is primarily determined using the average-cost method, except for
certain natural gas inventories held by Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and
general merchandise inventories held by Petroleum Services which are determined
using the LIFO cost method.

  Property, plant and equipment

     Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost. Depreciation is provided
primarily on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. Gains or
losses from the ordinary sale or retirement of property, plant and equipment for
regulated pipelines are credited or charged to accumulated depreciation; other
gains or losses are recorded in net income.

  Goodwill and other intangible assets

     Goodwill, which represents the excess of cost over fair value of assets of
businesses acquired, is amortized on a straight-line basis over periods from 10
to 25 years. Other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods from three to 20 years. Accumulated amortization at December 31, 1999
and 1998 was $144.9 million and $128.9 million, respectively. Amortization was
$50.7 million, $49.7 million and $29.2 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

  Treasury stock

     Treasury stock purchases are accounted for under the cost method whereby
the entire cost of the acquired stock is recorded as treasury stock. Gains and
losses on the subsequent reissuance of shares are credited or charged to capital
in excess of par value using the average-cost method.

  Gas Pipeline revenues

     Revenues for sales of products are recognized in the period of delivery and
revenues from the transportation of gas are recognized based on contractual
terms and the related transported volumes. Gas Pipeline is subject to Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulations and, accordingly, certain
revenues collected may be subject to possible refunds upon final orders in
pending cases. Gas Pipeline records rate refund liabilities considering Gas
Pipeline and other third party regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and
estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk weighted, as well as collection
and other risks.

  Energy Services revenues

     Revenues generally are recorded when services have been performed or
products have been delivered. A portion of Petroleum Services is subject to FERC
regulations and, accordingly, the method of recording these revenues is
consistent with Gas Pipeline's method discussed above. Certain of Energy
Marketing & Trading's activities are accounted for at fair value as described in
Energy Trading Activities.

  Communications revenues

     For Network and Strategic Investments, transmission and management service
revenues are recognized monthly as the services are provided. Amounts billed in
advance of the service month are recorded as deferred revenue.

                                      F-31

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Network uses lease accounting to record revenues related to cash received
for the right to use portions of its fiber-optic network. The lease transactions
are evaluated for sales-type lease accounting which results in certain lease
transactions being accounted for as sales upon completion of the construction of
the respective network segments and upon acceptance of the fiber by the
purchaser. Transactions that do not meet the criteria for a sales-type lease are
accounted for as an operating lease and revenue is recorded over the term of the
lease. In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Interpretation No. 43, "Real Estate Sales, an interpretation of FASB Statement
No. 66," issued in June 1999, lease transactions entered into after June 30,
1999, are accounted for as operating leases unless title to the fibers under
lease transfers to the lessee. The effect of this interpretation on 1999 results
was not significant.

     Solutions uses the percentage-of-completion method to record revenues
related to upgrades and new system sales. Revenues for these contracts are
initially recognized upon delivery of equipment with remaining revenues under
the contracts recognized over the installation period based on the relationship
of incurred labor to total estimated labor. Estimated losses on all contracts in
progress are accrued when the loss becomes known. The billings associated with
these contracts occur incrementally over the term of the agreement or upon
completion of the contract as provided. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, costs
incurred and estimated earnings in excess of billings were $166.7 million and
$185.9 million, respectively, and billings in excess of costs incurred and
estimated earnings were $50.7 million and $49.4 million, respectively.

     Solutions uses the completed-contract method to record revenues related to
customer service orders. Revenues on contracts for the maintenance of installed
systems are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the lives of
the related contracts.

  Energy trading activities

     Energy Marketing & Trading has trading operations that enter into energy
contracts to provide price-risk management services to its third-party
customers. Energy contracts include forward contracts, futures contracts, option
contracts, swap agreements, commodity inventories and short- and long-term
purchase and sale commitments which involve physical delivery of an energy
commodity. These energy contracts are valued at fair value and, with the
exception of commodity inventories, are recorded in energy trading assets, other
assets and deferred charges, energy trading liabilities and other liabilities
and deferred income in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The net change in fair
value representing unrealized gains and losses is recognized in income currently
and is recorded as revenues in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Fair value,
which is subject to change in the near term, reflects management's estimates
using valuation techniques that reflect the best information available in the
circumstances. This information includes various factors such as quoted market
prices, estimates of market prices in the absence of quoted market prices,
contractual volumes, estimated volumes under option and other arrangements that
result in varying volumes, other contract terms, liquidity of the market in
which the contract is transacted, credit considerations, time value and
volatility factors underlying the positions. Energy Marketing & Trading reports
its trading operations' physical sales transactions net of the related purchase
costs, consistent with fair value accounting for such trading activities.

     Williams also enters into energy derivative financial instruments and
derivative commodity instruments (primarily futures contracts, option contracts
and swap agreements) to hedge against market price fluctuations of certain
commodity inventories and sales and purchase commitments. Unrealized and
realized gains and losses on these hedge contracts are deferred and recognized
in income in the same manner as the hedged item. These contracts are initially
and regularly evaluated to determine that there is a high correlation between
changes in the fair value of the hedge contract and fair value of the hedged
item. In instances where the anticipated correlation of price movements does not
occur, hedge accounting is terminated and future changes in the value of the
instruments are recognized as gains or losses. If the hedged item of the
underlying transactions is sold or settled, the instrument is recognized into
income.

                                      F-32

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Impairment of long-lived assets

     Williams evaluates the long-lived assets, including related intangibles, of
identifiable business activities for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate, in management's judgment, that the carrying value of
such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment
has occurred is based on management's estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
attributable to the assets as compared to the carrying value of the assets. If
an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is
determined by estimating the fair value for the assets and recording a provision
for loss if the carrying value is greater than fair value.

     For assets identified to be disposed of in the future, the carrying value
of these assets is compared to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell to
determine if an impairment is required. Until the assets are disposed of, an
estimate of the fair value is redetermined when related events or circumstances
change.

  Interest-rate derivatives

     Williams enters into interest-rate swap agreements to modify the interest
characteristics of its long-term debt. These agreements are designated with all
or a portion of the principal balance and term of specific debt obligations.
These agreements involve the exchange of amounts based on a fixed interest rate
for amounts based on variable interest rates without an exchange of the notional
amount upon which the payments are based. The difference to be paid or received
is accrued and recognized as an adjustment of interest accrued. Gains and losses
from terminations of interest-rate swap agreements are deferred and amortized as
an adjustment of the interest expense on the outstanding debt over the remaining
original term of the terminated swap agreement. In the event the designated debt
is extinguished, gains and losses from terminations of interest-rate swap
agreements are recognized in income.

     Kern River specifically has interest-rate swap agreements that are not
designated with long-term debt that are recorded in other liabilities at market
value. Changes in market value are recorded as adjustments to a regulatory asset
which is expected to be recovered in transportation rates.

  Capitalization of interest

     Williams capitalizes interest on major projects during construction.
Interest is capitalized on borrowed funds and, where regulation by the FERC
exists, on internally generated funds. The rates used by regulated companies are
calculated in accordance with FERC rules. Rates used by unregulated companies
approximate the average interest rate on related debt. Interest capitalized on
internally generated funds, as permitted by FERC rules, is included in
non-operating other income (expense) -- net.

  Employee stock-based awards

     Employee stock-based awards are accounted for under Accounting Principles
Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and
related interpretations. Fixed-plan common stock options generally do not result
in compensation expense because the exercise price of the stock options equals
the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.

  Income taxes

     Williams includes the operations of its subsidiaries in its consolidated
tax return. For certain of the periods presented, Williams and MAPCO separately
included the operations of their respective subsidiaries in consolidated federal
income tax returns. Williams and MAPCO began filing a single consolidated
federal income tax return as of the date of the merger. Deferred income taxes
are computed using the liability method and are provided on all temporary
differences between the financial basis and the tax basis of Williams' assets
and liabilities.
                                      F-33

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Earnings per share

     Basic earnings per share are based on the sum of the average number of
common shares outstanding and issuable restricted and deferred shares. Diluted
earnings per share include any dilutive effect of stock options and convertible
preferred stock.

  Foreign currency translation

     The functional currency of Williams is the U.S. dollar. The functional
currency of certain of Williams' foreign operations is the applicable local
currency for each foreign subsidiary and equity method investee, including the
Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Canadian dollar and Lithuanian lita. Assets
and liabilities of certain foreign subsidiaries and equity investees are
translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the
combined statements of operations and Williams' share of the results of
operations of its equity affiliates are translated at the average exchange rates
in effect during the applicable period. The resulting cumulative translation
adjustment is recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income.

     Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency
are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise.
Subsequent changes in exchange rates result in transaction gains and losses
which are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income.

  Recent accounting standards

     Effective January 1, 1999, Williams adopted Statement of Position (SOP)
98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up Activities." The SOP requires that all
start-up costs be expensed as incurred, and the expense related to the initial
application of this SOP of $5.6 million (net of a $3.6 million benefit for
income taxes) is reported as the cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle.

     Additionally, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on
Issue No. 98-10, "Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk
Management Activities," which was adopted in the first quarter of 1999. The
cumulative effect of initially applying the consensus at January 1, 1999, is
immaterial to Williams' results of operations and financial position.

     The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." This standard,
as amended, will be effective for Williams beginning January 1, 2001. This
standard requires that all derivatives be recognized as assets or liabilities in
the balance sheet and that those instruments be measured at fair value. The
effect of this standard on Williams' results of operations and financial
position is being evaluated.

     In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." The
effect of this guidance on Williams' results of operations and financial
position is being evaluated.

NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS

  MAPCO

     On March 28, 1998, Williams completed the acquisition of MAPCO Inc. by
exchanging 1.665 shares of Williams common stock for each outstanding share of
MAPCO common stock. In addition, outstanding MAPCO employee stock options were
converted into 5.7 million shares of Williams common stock. Upon completion,
98.8 million shares of Williams common stock valued at $3.1 billion, based on
the closing price of Williams common stock on March 27, 1998, were issued. Also
in connection with the merger, 8.4 million shares of MAPCO $1 par value common
stock previously held in treasury were retired. These shares had a

                                      F-34

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

carrying value of $253.8 million. The merger constituted a tax-free
reorganization and has been accounted for as a pooling of interests.

     In connection with the merger, Williams recognized approximately $80
million in merger-related costs in 1998, comprised primarily of outside
professional fees and early retirement and severance costs. Approximately $51
million of these merger-related costs are included in other expense -- net as a
component of segment profit within Energy Services for 1998, and approximately
$29 million, unrelated to segments, is included in general corporate expenses.
During 1997, payments of $32.6 million were made for non-compete agreements.
These costs are being amortized over one to three years from the merger
completion date.

  Nortel

     On April 30, 1997, Williams and Nortel combined their customer-premise
equipment sales and service operations into a limited liability company,
Williams Communications Solutions, LLC. In addition, Williams paid $68 million
to Nortel. Williams has accounted for its 70 percent interest in the operations
that Nortel contributed to the LLC as a purchase business combination, and
beginning May 1, 1997, has included the results of operations of the acquired
company in Williams' Consolidated Statement of Income. Accordingly, the acquired
assets and liabilities, including $168 million in accounts receivable, $68
million in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and $150 million in debt
obligations, were recorded based on an allocation of the purchase price, with
substantially all of the cost in excess of historical carrying values allocated
to goodwill.

     Williams recorded the 30 percent reduction in its operations contributed to
the LLC as a sale to the minority shareholder of the LLC. Williams recognized a
gain of $44.5 million based on the excess of the fair value over the net book
value (approximately $71 million) of its operations conveyed to the LLC minority
interest. Income taxes were not provided on the gain, because the transaction
did not affect the difference between the financial and tax bases of
identifiable assets and liabilities.

NOTE 3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     Williams accrued losses of $14.3 million (net of a $7.4 million income tax
benefit) and $6.3 million (net of a $.7 million income tax benefit) in 1998 and
1997, respectively. The losses related to a business sold in 1996 and include
cost accruals for contractual obligations related to financial performance of
those assets and a 1997 income tax adjustment to the 1996 loss on the assets
sold.

NOTE 4. INVESTING ACTIVITIES

  Short-term investments

     Short-term investments at December 31, 1999, consist of the following:



     Maturities of short-term investments are primarily one year or less with
the exception of the mutual funds which do not have a maturity. All short-term
investments are classified as available-for-sale under the scope of SFAS 115
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." The carrying
amounts of

                                      F-35

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

these investments are reported at fair value, which approximate cost at December
31, 1999, with net unrealized appreciation or depreciation reported as a
component of other comprehensive income.

  Long-term investments

     Long-term investments at December 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows:



     At December 31, 1998, Williams owned 30 percent of the preferred shares in
ATL-Algar Telecom Leste S.A. (ATL) and through participation in a limited
liability company owned 30 percent of the common stock. In March 1999, Williams
purchased from Algar Telecom S.A. for $265 million an additional 43 percent of
the preferred shares and 19 percent of the common stock in ATL. In March 1999,
Williams pledged its 49 percent and 73 percent investment in ATL's common and
preferred stock, respectively, as collateral for a U.S. dollar denominated $521
million loan from Ericsson Project Finance AB to ATL. In addition, Algar Telecom
pledged 49 percent of its 51 percent investment in ATL common stock and 100
percent of its 27 percent investment in ATL preferred stock as collateral for
the loan.

     Subsequent to December 31, 1999, Williams sold 30 percent and 7 percent of
the common and preferred stock, respectively, of ATL to SBC Communications, Inc.
and Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. for aggregate proceeds of $148 million.

     The Ferrellgas Partners L.P. senior common units are non-voting and become
callable in two years and bear a fixed yield of 10 percent. The carrying amount
of this investment is reported at fair value which approximates cost at December
31, 1999.

     Included in the preceding investments table are marketable equity
securities which are classified as available-for-sale under the scope of SFAS
No. 115. The carrying amount of these investments is reported at fair value with
net unrealized appreciation or depreciation reported as a component of other
comprehensive income. The aggregate cost of these investments at December 31,
1999 and 1998 was $57.7 million and $41.5 million, respectively. Fair value
exceeded cost for each marketable equity security investment at December 31,
1999 and 1998.

                                      F-36

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Subsequent to December 31, 1999, Williams liquidated a portion of its
marketable equity securities portfolio, yielding proceeds of $35.9 million. At
December 31, 1999, these investments had a cost and carrying value of $4.4
million and $35.7 million, respectively.

     Summarized unaudited financial position and results of operations of
Williams' equity method investments are as follows:



     The non-current assets consist primarily of communication and interstate
natural gas pipeline assets.

     Dividends and distributions received from companies carried on an equity
basis were $14 million, $16 million and $7 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

     Certain investments accounted for under the equity method are publicly
traded. At December 31, 1999, these investments had a carrying value of $65
million and a quoted market value of $183.1 million.

     Earnings and losses related to equity method investments are included in
revenues. Investing income for all of the years presented is comprised primarily
of interest income.

NOTE 5. ASSET SALES, IMPAIRMENTS AND OTHER ACCRUALS

     Included in other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Energy Marketing & Trading's segment profit for 1999 is a $22.3 million gain
related to the sale of certain of its retail gas and electric operations.

     Included in other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Exploration & Production's segment profit for 1999 is a $14.7 million gain
related to the sale of certain of its gas producing properties.

     Included in other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Strategic Investments' segment loss for 1999, is a pre-tax loss totaling $28.4
million relating to management's second-quarter 1999 decision and commitment to
sell certain network application businesses. The $28.4 million loss consists of
a $24.5 million impairment of the assets to fair value, based on the net sales
proceeds of $50 million, and $3.9 million in exit costs consisting of
contractual obligations related to the sales of these businesses. These
transactions resulted in an increase in the income tax provision of
approximately $7.9 million, which reflects the impact of goodwill not deductible
for tax purposes. Segment losses for the operations related to these assets for
1999, 1998 and 1997 were $10 million, $22 million and $15 million, respectively.

     Included in other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Energy Marketing & Trading's segment profit for 1998 is a $14 million asset
impairment related to the decision to focus its retail natural gas and electric
business from sales to small commercial and residential customers to large end
users. The impairment primarily reflects the reduction in value of a software
system and certain intangible assets associated specifically with retail energy
applications that will no longer be utilized by Energy Marketing & Trading and
for which management estimates the fair value to be insignificant.

                                      F-37

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Included in 1998 other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Strategic Investments' segment loss is a $23.2 million loss related to a venture
involved in the technology and transmission of business information for news and
educational purposes. The loss occurred as a result of Williams' re-evaluation
and decision to exit the venture as Williams decided against making further
investments in the venture. Williams abandoned its entire ownership interest in
the venture during fourth-quarter 1998. The loss primarily consists of $17
million from the impairment of the total carrying amount of the investment and
$5 million from recognition of contractual obligations that continued after the
abandonment. Williams' share of losses from the venture is not significant to
consolidated net income for any periods presented.

     In fourth-quarter 1997, Williams made the decision and committed to a plan
to sell the learning content business, which resulted in a loss of $22.7 million
included in 1997 other expense -- net within segment costs and expenses and
Strategic Investments' segment loss. The loss consisted of a $21 million
impairment of the assets to fair value less cost to sell and recognition of $1.7
million in costs associated with the decision to sell the business. Fair value
was based on management's estimate of the expected net proceeds to be received.
During 1998, a significant portion of the learning content business was sold
with a resulting $2 million reduction in 1998 expenses. The results of
operations and the effect of suspending amortization for the learning content
business included in consolidated net income are not significant for any of the
periods presented.

     In 1997, Williams sold its interest in the natural gas liquids and
condensate reserves in the West Panhandle field of Texas for $66 million in
cash. The sale resulted in a $66 million pre-tax gain on the transaction,
because the related reserves had no book value.

NOTE 6. PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

     The provision (benefit) for income taxes from continuing operations
includes:



                                      F-38

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Reconciliations from the provision for income taxes from continuing
operations at the federal statutory rate to the provision for income taxes are
as follows:



     Significant components of deferred tax liabilities and assets as of
December 31 are as follows:



     In 1999, cash refunds exceeded cash payments resulting in a net refund of
$387 million. Federal tax refunds received in 1999 are reflected as current tax
benefits with offsetting deferred tax provisions attributable to temporary
differences between the book and tax basis of certain assets. Cash payments for
income taxes (net of refunds) were $29 million and $126 million in 1998 and
1997, respectively.

NOTE 7. EXTRAORDINARY GAIN (LOSS)

     On December 17, 1999, Williams sold its retail propane business, Thermogas
L.L.C., previously a subsidiary of MAPCO, to Ferrellgas Partners L.P.
(Ferrellgas) for $443.7 million, including $175 million in senior common units
of Ferrellgas. The sale resulted from an unsolicited offer from Ferrellgas and
yielded an after-tax gain of $65.2 million (net of a $47.9 million provision for
income taxes), which is reported as an extraordinary gain. The results of
operations from this business are not significant to consolidated net income for
any periods presented. Thermogas operations are reported within the Energy
Marketing & Trading segment.

                                      F-39

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     During 1998, Williams paid $54.4 million to redeem higher interest rate
debt for a $4.8 million net loss (net of a $2.6 million benefit for income
taxes).

     During 1997, Williams paid approximately $1.4 billion to redeem
approximately $1.3 billion of debt with stated interest rates in excess of 8.8
percent, for a net loss of $79.1 million (net of a $46.6 million benefit for
income taxes). In addition, approximately $30 million of costs to redeem the
debt have been deferred as a regulatory asset for rate recovery and are being
amortized over the original term of the related debt.

NOTE 8. EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic and diluted earnings per common share are computed for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, as follows:



     Approximately 6.2 million, 5 million and 3.1 million options to purchase
shares of common stock with weighted-average exercise prices of $38.56, $32.20
and $27.93, respectively, were outstanding on December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, but have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings
per share. Inclusion of these shares would be antidilutive, as the exercise
prices of the options exceeded the average market prices of the common shares
for the respective years.

     Additionally for 1999 and 1998, approximately 5.4 million and 9.6 million
shares, respectively, related to the assumed conversion of the $3.50 convertible
preferred stock have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per
share. Inclusion of these shares would be antidilutive.

                                      F-40

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan
assets for pension benefits and other postretirement benefits for the years
indicated. It also presents a reconciliation of the funded status of these
benefits to the amount recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December
31 of each year indicated.



                                      F-41

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Net pension and other postretirement benefit expense consists of the
following:





     In connection with the MAPCO merger, Williams offered an early retirement
incentive program to a certain group of employees during 1998. Texas Gas
Transmission also offered an early retirement incentive program to certain
employees during 1998.

     The following are the weighted-average assumptions utilized as of December
31 of the year indicated.



     The annual assumed rate of increase in the health care cost trend rate for
2000 is 9 percent increasing to 10 percent in 2001, and systematically
decreasing to 5 percent by 2008.

     The various nonpension postretirement benefit plans which Williams sponsors
provide for retiree contributions and contain other cost-sharing features such
as deductibles and coinsurance. The accounting for

                                      F-42

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

these plans anticipates future cost-sharing changes to the written plans that
are consistent with Williams' expressed intent to increase the retiree
contribution rate annually, generally in line with health care cost increases,
except for certain retirees whose premiums are fixed.

     The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the
amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost
trend rates would have the following effects:



     The amount of postretirement benefit costs deferred as a regulatory asset
at December 31, 1999 and 1998, is $91 million and $101 million, respectively,
and is expected to be recovered through rates over approximately 14 years.

     Williams maintains various defined-contribution plans. Williams recognized
costs of $46 million in 1999, $42 million in 1998 and $33 million in 1997 for
these plans.

NOTE 10. INVENTORIES



     As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, approximately 28 percent and 29 percent
of inventories, respectively, were stated at fair value. As of December 31, 1999
and 1998, approximately 10 percent and 11 percent of inventories, respectively,
were determined using the LIFO cost method. The remaining inventories were
primarily determined using the average-cost method.

     If inventories valued on the LIFO cost method at December 31, 1999 and
1998, were valued at current replacement cost, the amounts would increase by
approximately $14 million and $13 million, respectively.

     During 1999 and 1998, lower-of-cost or market reductions of approximately
$6 million and $1 million, respectively, were recognized with respect to certain
refined products inventories.

                                      F-43

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT



     Included in gross property, plant and equipment for 1999 is approximately
$2.3 billion of construction in progress, primarily the communications network,
which is not yet subject to depreciation.

     Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and
equipment are approximately $1 billion at December 31, 1999. Included in this
amount is $303 million for the purchase of optronics equipment from Nortel to be
used in building the communications network pursuant to agreements with Nortel
to purchase a total of $600 million in optronics equipment.

NOTE 12. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     Under Williams' cash-management system, certain subsidiaries' cash accounts
reflect credit balances to the extent checks written have not been presented for
payment. The amounts of these credit balances included in accounts payable are
$220 million at December 31, 1999, and $124 million at December 31, 1998.



                                      F-44

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 13. DEBT, LEASES AND BANKING ARRANGEMENTS

  Notes payable

     During 1999, Williams' commercial paper program, backed by a short-term
credit facility, was increased to $1.4 billion. At December 31, 1999 and 1998,
$1.2 billion and $903 million, respectively, of commercial paper was outstanding
under the program. In addition, Williams has entered into various other
short-term credit agreements with amounts outstanding totaling $143 million and
$150 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The weighted-average
interest rate on the outstanding short-term borrowings at December 31, 1999 and
1998, was 6.37 percent and 5.92 percent, respectively.

  Debt



- ---------------

*  At December 31, 1999, including the effects of interest-rate swaps.

(1) $200 million, 7.08% debentures, payable 2026, are subject to redemption at
    par at the option of the debtholder in 2001.

(2) $300 million, 5.95% notes, payable 2010, and $240 million, 6.125% notes,
    payable 2012, are subject to redemption at par at the option of the
    debtholder in 2000 and 2002, respectively.

     For financial statement reporting purposes at December 31, 1999, $404
million in obligations which would have otherwise been classified as current
debt obligations have been classified as non-current based on Williams' intent
and ability to refinance on a long-term basis. Williams' issuance in January
2000 of $500 million of adjustable rate notes due 2001 is sufficient to complete
these refinancings.

     In September 1999, Williams' communications business, Williams
Communications Group, Inc. (WCG), entered into a $1.05 billion long-term credit
agreement. Terms of the credit agreement contain restrictive covenants limiting
the transfer of funds to Williams (parent), including the payment of dividends
and repayment of intercompany borrowings by WCG to Williams (parent). At
December 31, 1999, no amounts were outstanding under this facility. Interest
rates vary with current market conditions.

     Under the terms of Williams' $1 billion credit agreement, Northwest
Pipeline, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and Texas Gas Transmission have access
to various amounts of the facility, while Williams (parent) has access to all
unborrowed amounts. Interest rates vary with current market conditions.

     During 1999, WCG issued $2 billion in debt obligations consisting of $500
million in 10.7 percent notes due 2007 and $1.5 billion of 10.875 percent notes
due 2009, and Williams issued $700 million in 7.625 percent notes due 2019.

                                      F-45

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Interest-rate swaps with a notional value of $1.2 billion are currently
being utilized to convert certain fixed-rate debt obligations, included in the
preceding table, to variable-rate obligations resulting in an effective
weighted-average floating rate of 5.78 percent at December 31, 1999.

     Certain interest-rate swap agreements relating to Kern River, which
preceded the January 1996 purchase of Kern River by Williams and the subsequent
Kern River debt refinancing, remain outstanding. In 1996, Kern River entered
into additional interest-rate swap agreements to manage the exposure from the
original interest-rate swap agreements. As described in Note 1, these
interest-rate swap agreements are not designated with the Kern River debt, but
when combined with interest on the debt obligations, Kern River's effective
interest rate is 8.5 percent.

     Terms of certain subsidiaries' borrowing arrangements with lenders limit
the transfer of funds to Williams (parent). At December 31, 1999, approximately
$3.3 billion of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries was restricted. In
addition, certain equity method investees' borrowing arrangements and foreign
government regulations limit the amount of dividends or distributions to
Williams. Restricted net assets of equity method investees was approximately
$176 million at December 31, 1999.

     Aggregate minimum maturities and sinking-fund requirements, considering the
reclassification of current obligations as previously described, for each of the
next five years are as follows:



     Cash payments for interest (net of amounts capitalized) are as follows:
1999 -- $503 million; 1998 -- $414 million; and 1997 -- $450 million.

  Leases

     Future minimum annual rentals under non-cancelable operating leases as of
December 31, 1999, are payable as follows:



     Total rent expense was $358 million in 1999, $245 million in 1998 and $167
million in 1997. Included in this amount is total capacity expense incurred from
leasing from a third party's network (off-network capacity expense) of $201
million in 1999, $111 million in 1998, and $69 million in 1997.

     During 1998, Williams entered into an operating lease agreement covering a
portion of its fiber-optic network. The total estimated cost of the network
assets to be covered by the lease agreement is $750 million.
                                      F-46

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The lease term includes an interim term, during which the covered network assets
will be constructed and will end April 30, 2000, and a base term. The interim
and base terms are expected to total five years and, if renewed, could total
seven years. Under the terms of the lease agreement, Williams cannot sublease
the assets without the prior written consent of the lessor. Through December 31,
1999, Williams has not requested nor has the lessor granted such consent.

     Williams has an option to purchase the covered network assets during the
lease term at an amount approximating the lessor's cost. Williams provides a
residual value guarantee equal to a maximum of 89.9 percent of the transaction.
The residual value guarantee is reduced by the present value of actual lease
payments. In the event that Williams does not exercise its purchase option,
Williams expects the fair market value of the covered network assets to
substantially reduce Williams' obligation under the residual value guarantee.
Williams' disclosures for future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable
operating leases do not include amounts for the residual value guarantee.

NOTE 14. PREFERRED OWNERSHIP INTERESTS OF SUBSIDIARIES

     In December 1999, Williams formed Williams Capital Trust I (Trust) which
issued $175 million in zero coupon Williams' obligated mandatorily redeemable
preferred securities. The preferred securities must be redeemed by the Trust no
later than March 2002. The redemption price of the securities accretes until
redeemed and entitles the investor to a fixed-rate annual yield of 7.92 percent.
Proceeds from the sale of the securities were used by the Trust to purchase
Williams' zero-coupon subordinated debentures whose yield and maturity terms
mirror those of the preferred securities issued by the Trust. The Trust's sole
assets are the Williams zero-coupon subordinated debentures. The proceeds of the
transaction generated funds for Williams' general corporate use. Williams
guarantees the obligations of the Trust related to its preferred securities.

     During 1998, Williams formed separate legal entities and contributed
various assets to a newly-formed limited partnership, Castle Associates L.P.
(Castle), and to a limited liability company, Williams Risk Holdings Company,
LLC (Holdings), as a part of transactions that generated funds for Williams'
general corporate use. Outside investors obtained from Williams non-controlling
preferred interests in the newly formed entities for $335 million through
purchase and/or contribution. The assets and liabilities of Castle and Holdings
are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The transactions did not
result in any gain or loss for Williams.

     The preferred interest holders in both Castle and Holdings are entitled to
a priority return based on a variable-rate structure, currently ranging from
approximately seven to 10 percent, in addition to their participation in the
operating results of the partnership and LLC.

     The Castle limited-partnership agreement and associated operating documents
included certain restrictive covenants and guarantees of Williams and certain of
its subsidiaries. These restrictions are similar to those in the Williams'
credit agreement and other debt instruments.

NOTE 15. ISSUANCE OF SUBSIDIARY'S COMMON STOCK

     In October 1999, Williams' communications business, WCG, completed an
initial public offering of approximately 34 million shares of its common stock
at $23 per share for proceeds of approximately $738 million. In addition,
approximately 34 million shares of common stock were privately sold in
concurrent investments by SBC Communications Inc., Intel Corporation, and
Telefonos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. for proceeds of $738.5 million. These
transactions resulted in a reduction of Williams' ownership interest in WCG from
100 percent to 85.3 percent. In accordance with Williams' policy regarding the
issuance of subsidiary's common stock, Williams recognized a $1.17 billion
increase to Williams' capital in excess of par, a $3.4 million decrease to
accumulated other comprehensive income, and an initial increase of $307 million
to Williams' minority interest liability. The issuances of stock by WCG were not
subject to federal income taxes.

                                      F-47

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 16. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     During 1999, each remaining share of the $3.50 preferred stock was
converted at the option of the holder into 4.6875 shares of Williams common
stock prior to the redemption date. In September 1997, the remaining shares of
$2.21 cumulative preferred stock were redeemed by Williams at par ($25) for a
total of $18.5 million.

     In 1996, the Williams' board of directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan
(the Rights Plan). Under the Rights Plan, each outstanding share of Williams
common stock has one-third of a preferred stock purchase right attached. Under
certain conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase, at an exercise
price of $140 (subject to adjustment), one two-hundredth of a share of junior
participating preferred stock. The rights may be exercised only if an Acquiring
Person acquires (or obtains the right to acquire) 15 percent or more of Williams
common stock; or commences an offer for 15 percent or more of Williams common
stock; or the board of directors determines an Adverse Person has become the
owner of 10 percent or more of Williams common stock. The rights, which do not
have voting rights, expire in 2006 and may be redeemed at a price of $.01 per
right prior to their expiration, or within a specified period of time after the
occurrence of certain events. In the event a person becomes the owner of more
than 15 percent of Williams common stock or the board of directors determines
that a person is an Adverse Person, each holder of a right (except an Acquiring
Person or an Adverse Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise,
Williams common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of
the right. In the event Williams is engaged in a merger, business combination or
50 percent or more of Williams' assets, cash flow or earnings power is sold or
transferred, each holder of a right (except an Acquiring Person or an Adverse
Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the
acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the
right.

NOTE 17. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

     Williams has several plans providing for common-stock-based awards to
employees and to non-employee directors. The plans permit the granting of
various types of awards including, but not limited to, stock options,
stock-appreciation rights, restricted stock and deferred stock. Awards may be
granted for no consideration other than prior and future services or based on
certain financial performance targets being achieved. The purchase price per
share for stock options and the grant price for stock-appreciation rights may
not be less than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.
Depending upon terms of the respective plans, stock options generally become
exercisable after three or five years, subject to accelerated vesting if certain
future stock prices or if specific financial performance targets are achieved.
Stock options expire 10 years after grant. At December 31, 1999, 49.4 million
shares of Williams common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to existing
and future stock awards, of which 24.7 million shares were available for future
grants (18.7 million at December 31, 1998).

     Certain of these plans have stock option loan programs for the
participants, whereby, at the time of the option exercise the participant may
elect to receive a loan from Williams in an amount limited to 80 percent (or 50
percent under one plan) of the market value of the shares associated with the
exercise. A portion of the stock acquired is held as collateral over the term of
the loan, which can be three or five years. Interest rates are based on the
minimum applicable federal rates, and interest is paid annually. The amount of
loans outstanding at December 31, 1999 and 1998, totaled $42.1 million and $35.7
million, respectively.

                                      F-48

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following summary reflects stock option activity for Williams common
stock and related information for 1999, 1998 and 1997:



     The following summary provides information about Williams stock options
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 1999:



     In conjunction with the initial public offering of WCG stock, options for
Williams common stock granted in 1999 and 1998 under a WCG plan established in
1998 were converted from options for Williams common stock to options for WCG
common stock. The conversion occurred when market prices for Williams and WCG
common stock were $37.63 per share and $23.00 per share, respectively. In
accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, this conversion resulted in a new
measurement date and related pre-tax expense of approximately $.9 million was
recognized in 1999. The remaining value of the option conversion will be
amortized over the various vesting periods of the converted options. The
following summary provides information for the WCG plan stock option activity
and related information for 1999 and 1998:



                                      F-49

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following summary provides information about WCG stock options
outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 1999:



     The estimated fair value at the date of grant of options for Williams
common stock granted in 1999, 1998 and 1997, using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model, is as follows:



     In addition, the fair value at the date of grant for WCG options granted
was estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. For those options for
Williams common stock which were converted to options for WCG common stock, the
fair value was estimated at the date of conversion using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model. The option pricing model used the following
weighted-average assumptions: expected life of the stock options of
approximately 5 years; volatility of the expected market price of WCG common
stock of 60 percent; risk-free interest rate of 6 percent; and no expected
future dividend yield. The weighted-average grant date fair value and the
weighted-average conversion date fair value for WCG options were $13.10 and
$14.21, respectively.

     Pro forma net income and earnings per share, assuming Williams had applied
the fair-value method of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"
in measuring compensation cost beginning with 1997 employee stock-based awards,
are as follows:



     Pro forma amounts for 1999 include the remaining total compensation expense
from Williams awards made in 1998 and the total compensation expense from
certain Williams awards made in 1999, as these awards fully vested in 1999 as a
result of the accelerated vesting provisions. In addition, 1999 pro forma
amounts include compensation expense related to the WCG plan awards and
conversions in 1999. Pro forma amounts for 1999 include $47.1 million for
Williams awards and $6.2 million for WCG awards.

                                      F-50

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Pro forma amounts for 1998 include the previously unrecognized compensation
expense related to the MAPCO options converted at the time of the merger and the
remaining total compensation expense from the awards made in 1997, as these
awards fully vested in 1998 as a result of the accelerated vesting provisions.
Pro forma amounts for 1997 include compensation expense from 78 percent of the
awards made in 1996, as these awards fully vested in 1997 as a result of the
accelerated vesting provisions. Since compensation expense from stock options is
recognized over the future years' vesting period for pro forma disclosure
purposes, and additional awards generally are made each year, pro forma amounts
may not be representative of future years' amounts.

     Williams granted approximately 260,000 and 800,000 deferred Williams shares
in 1999 and 1998, respectively. Deferred shares are valued at the date of award,
and the weighted-average grant date fair value of the shares granted was $34.84
in 1999 and $31.62 in 1998. Approximately $13 million and $5 million was
recognized as expense for deferred shares of Williams in 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Expense related to deferred shares is recognized in the
performance year or over the vesting period, depending on the terms of the
awards. In 1999 and 1998, Williams issued approximately 125,000 and 119,000,
respectively, of the deferred shares previously granted. Grants made in 1997
were not significant.

     In conjunction with the WCG initial public offering, 255,000 deferred
shares granted under the Williams and WCG plans in 1998 were converted from
Williams to WCG stock when the market prices were $37.63 and $23.00,
respectively. At that time 25 percent of the shares became fully vested. In
accordance with APB opinion No. 25, this conversion resulted in a new
measurement date, and accordingly, the related expense of approximately $2.2
million is included in 1999. The remaining value of the deferred share
conversion will be amortized over the vesting periods of the converted stock.

NOTE 18. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

  Fair-value methods

     The following methods and assumptions were used by Williams in estimating
its fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:

     Cash and cash equivalents and notes payable: The carrying amounts reported
in the balance sheet approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of
these instruments.

     Short-term investments, marketable equity securities and Ferrellgas
Partners L.P. senior common units: In accordance with SFAS No. 115, these
securities are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value,
with net unrealized appreciation or depreciation reported as a component of
other comprehensive income.

     Notes and other non-current receivables: For those notes with interest
rates approximating market or maturities of less than three years, fair value is
estimated to approximate historically recorded amounts.

     Investments-cost and advances to affiliates: Fair value is estimated to
approximate historically recorded amounts as the investments are primarily in
non-publicly traded foreign companies for which it is not practicable to
estimate fair value of these investments.

     Long-term debt: The fair value of Williams' long-term debt is valued using
indicative year-end traded bond market prices for publicly traded issues, while
private debt is valued based on the prices of similar securities with similar
terms and credit ratings. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, 79 percent and 74
percent, respectively, of Williams' long-term debt was publicly traded. Williams
used the expertise of an outside investment banking firm to estimate the fair
value of long-term debt.

     Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of
Trust: Fair value at December 31, 1999, is estimated to approximate carrying
value as the securities were issued in December 1999.

                                      F-51

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Interest-rate swaps: Fair value is determined by discounting estimated
future cash flows using forward-interest rates derived from the year-end yield
curve. Fair value was calculated by the financial institutions that are the
counterparties to the swaps.

     Energy-related trading and hedging: Energy-related trading includes
forwards, options, swaps and purchase and sales commitments. Energy-related
hedging includes futures, options and swaps. Fair value reflects management's
estimates using valuation techniques that reflect the best information available
in the circumstances. This information includes various factors such as quoted
market prices, estimates of market prices in absence of quoted market prices,
contractual volumes, estimated volumes under option and other arrangements that
result in varying volumes, other contract terms, liquidity of the market in
which the contract is transacted, credit considerations, time value and
volatility factors underlying the positions.

  Carrying amounts and fair values of Williams' financial instruments



     The preceding asset and liability amounts for energy-related hedging
represent unrealized gains or losses and do not include the related deferred
amounts.

     The 1999 average fair value of the energy-related trading assets and
liabilities is $565 million and $507 million, respectively. The 1998 average
fair value of the energy-related trading assets and liabilities is $485 million
and $518 million, respectively.

     Williams has recorded liabilities of $18 million at December 31, 1999 and
1998, for certain guarantees that represent the estimated fair value of these
financial instruments.

  Off-balance-sheet credit and market risk

     Williams is a participant in the following transactions and arrangements
that involve financial instruments that have off-balance-sheet risk of
accounting loss. It is not practicable to estimate the fair value of these off-
balance-sheet financial instruments because of their unusual nature and unique
characteristics.

                                      F-52

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In 1997, Williams entered into agreements to sell, on an ongoing basis,
certain of its accounts receivable. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, $324 million
and $302 million have been sold, respectively.

     In connection with the 1995 sale of Williams' network services operations,
Williams has been indemnified by LDDS against any losses related to retained
guarantees of $91 million and $113 million at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively, for lease rental obligations.

     Williams has issued other guarantees and letters of credit with
off-balance-sheet risk that total approximately $175 million and $83 million at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Williams believes it will not have to
perform under these agreements, because the likelihood of default by the primary
party is remote and/or because of certain indemnifications received from other
third parties.

  Energy trading activities

     Williams, through Energy Marketing & Trading, provides price-risk
management services associated with the energy industry to its customers. These
services are provided through a variety of energy contracts including forward
contracts, futures contracts, option contracts, swap agreements and purchase and
sale commitments. See Note 1 for a description of the accounting for these
trading activities. The net gain from trading activities was $214.0 million,
$112.6 million and $125.8 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Energy Marketing & Trading enters into contracts which involve physical
delivery of an energy commodity. Prices under these contracts are both fixed and
variable. These contracts involve both firm commitments requiring fixed volumes
and option and other arrangements that result in varying volumes. Swap
agreements call for Energy Marketing & Trading to make payments to (or receive
payments from) counterparties based upon the differential between a fixed and
variable price or variable prices for different locations. Energy Marketing &
Trading buys and sells financial option contracts which give the buyer the right
to exercise the option and receive the difference between a predetermined strike
price and a market price at the date of exercise. The prices for forward, swap,
option and physical contracts consider exchange quoted prices or management's
estimates based on the best information available. Energy Marketing & Trading
also enters into futures contracts, which are commitments to either purchase or
sell a commodity at a future date for a specified price and are generally
settled in cash, but may be settled through delivery of the underlying
commodity. The market prices for futures contracts are based on exchange
quotations.

     Energy Marketing & Trading is subject to market risk from changes in energy
commodity market prices, the portfolio position of its financial instruments and
physical commitments, the liquidity of the market in which the contract is
transacted, changes in interest rates and credit risk.

     Energy Marketing & Trading manages market risk on a portfolio basis through
established trading policy guidelines which are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Energy Marketing & Trading attempts to minimize credit-risk exposure to trading
counterparties and brokers through formal credit policies and monitoring
procedures. In the normal course of business, collateral is not required for
financial instruments with credit risk.

                                      F-53

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The notional quantities for trading activities at December 31 are as
follows:



     The net cash inflows related to these contracts at December 31, 1999 and
1998, were $76 million and $96 million, respectively. At December 31, 1999, the
cash inflows extend primarily through 2010.

  Concentration of credit risk

     Williams' cash equivalents and short-term investments consist of
high-quality securities placed with various major financial institutions with
high credit ratings. Williams' investment policy limits its credit exposure to
any one issuer/obligor.

     At December 31, 1999 and 1998, approximately 21 percent and 33 percent,
respectively, of receivables are for the sale or transportation of natural gas
and related products or services. Approximately 31 percent and 19 percent of
receivables at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, are for the sale or
transportation of petroleum products. Approximately 31 percent and 39 percent of
receivables at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, are for communications
and related services. Approximately 12 percent and 5 percent of receivables at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, are from power and related services.
Natural gas customers include pipelines, distribution companies, producers, gas
marketers and industrial users primarily located in the eastern, northwestern
and midwestern United States. Petroleum products customers include wholesale,
commercial, governmental, industrial and individual consumers and independent
dealers located primarily in Alaska and the midsouth and southeastern United
States. Power customers include the California Power Exchange, other power
marketers and utilities located throughout the majority of the United States.
Communications serves a wide range of customers including numerous corporations,
none of which is individually significant to its business. As a general policy,
collateral is not required for receivables, but customers' financial condition
and credit worthiness are evaluated regularly.

NOTE 19. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS

  Rate and regulatory matters and related litigation

     Williams' interstate pipeline subsidiaries, including Williams Pipe Line,
have various regulatory proceedings pending. As a result of rulings in certain
of these proceedings, a portion of the revenues of these subsidiaries has been
collected subject to refund. The natural gas pipeline subsidiaries have accrued
approximately $189 million for potential refund as of December 31, 1999.

     In 1997, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued orders
addressing, among other things, the authorized rates of return for three of the
Williams interstate natural gas pipeline subsidiaries. All of the orders involve
rate cases that became effective between 1993 and 1995 and, in each instance,
these cases have been superseded by more recently filed rate cases. In the three
orders, the FERC continued its practice of utilizing a methodology for
calculating rates of return that incorporates a long-term growth rate component.
However, the long-term growth rate component used by the FERC is now a
projection of U.S. gross domestic product growth rates. Generally, calculating
rates of return utilizing a methodology which includes a long-term

                                      F-54

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

growth rate component results in rates of return that are lower than they would
be if the long-term growth rate component were not included in the methodology.
Each of the three pipeline subsidiaries challenged its respective FERC order in
an effort to have the FERC change its rate-of-return methodology with respect to
these and other rate cases. On January 30, 1998, the FERC convened a public
conference to consider, on an industry-wide basis, issues with respect to
pipeline rates of return. In July 1998, the FERC issued orders in two of the
three pipeline subsidiary rate cases, again modifying its rate-of-return
methodology by adopting a formula that gives less weight to the long-term growth
component. Certain parties appealed the FERC's action, because the most recent
formula modification results in somewhat higher rates of return compared to the
rates of return calculated under the FERC's prior formula. In June and July
1999, the FERC applied the new methodology in the third pipeline subsidiary rate
case, as well as in a fourth case involving the same pipeline subsidiary. As a
result of these orders and developments in certain other regulatory proceedings
in the second quarter, each of the three gas pipeline subsidiaries made
reductions to its accrued liability for rate refunds to reflect application of
the new rate-of-return methodology. In February 2000, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the D.C. Circuit denied the appeal in one of these cases. Reductions for the
pipelines totaled approximately $51 million of which $38.2 million is included
in Gas Pipeline's segment revenues and segment profit for 1999. In addition,
$2.7 million is included in Midstream Gas & Liquids' segment revenues and
segment profit for 1999, as a result of its management of certain regulated
gathering facilities. The balance is included as a reduction of interest accrued
for 1999.

     As a result of FERC Order 636 decisions in prior years, each of the natural
gas pipeline subsidiaries has undertaken the reformation or termination of its
respective gas supply contracts. None of the pipelines has any significant
pending supplier take-or-pay, ratable take or minimum take claims. During 1999,
Williams Gas Pipelines Central (Central) reached an agreement with its
customers, state commissions and FERC staff concerning recovery of certain gas
supply realignment costs which arose from supplier take-or-pay contracts.

     During 1999, Central assigned its obligations under its largest remaining
gas supply contract to an unaffiliated third party and paid the third party $100
million. Central also agreed to pay the third party a total of $18 million in
installments over the next five years, all of which had been accrued in prior
years. Central received indemnities from the third party and a release of its
obligations under the contract. Central assigned two smaller contracts to an
affiliate effective February 1, 1999. As a result of these assignments, Central
has no remaining above-market price gas contracts.

     In 1998, as a result of negotiations concerning the portion of the
resolution costs which could be recovered from customers, Central expensed $58
million of costs previously expected to be recovered and capitalized as a
regulatory asset. The charge represented an estimate of natural gas costs that
will not be recoverable from customers. In 1999, Central filed with the FERC to
recover all costs related to the three contracts. In 1999, Central reached an
agreement in principle with the FERC staff, the state commissions, and its
customers on all issues related to recovery of Central's remaining take-or-pay
and gas supply realignment costs. The settlement resolved all prudence,
eligibility and absorption issues at a level consistent with Central's
established accruals and provided that Central would be allowed to recover the
costs allocated to its customers by means of a direct bill to be paid, in some
instances, over time. The settlement was effective November 1, 1999. On December
30, 1999, Central rendered direct bills to its customers in accordance with the
terms of the settlement.

     In September 1995, Texas Gas received FERC approval of a settlement
regarding Texas Gas' recovery of gas supply realignment costs. Through December
31, 1999, Texas Gas has paid approximately $76 million and expects to pay no
more than a total of $80 million for gas supply realignment costs, primarily as
a result of contract terminations. Texas Gas has recovered approximately $66
million, plus interest, in gas supply realignment costs.

     On July 29, 1998, the FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR)
and a Notice of Inquiry (NOI), proposing revisions to regulatory policies for
interstate natural gas transportation service. In the
                                      F-55

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOPR, the FERC proposes to eliminate the rate cap on short-term transportation
services and implement regulatory policies that are intended to maximize
competition in the short-term transportation market, mitigate the ability of
firms to exercise residual monopoly power and provide opportunities for greater
flexibility in the provision of pipeline services and to revise certain other
rate and certificate policies. In the NOI, the FERC seeks comments on its
pricing policies in the existing long-term market and pricing policies for new
capacity. Williams filed comments on the NOPR and NOI in the second quarter of
1999. On February 9, 2000, the FERC issued a final rule, Order 637, in response
to the comments received on the NOPR and NOI. The FERC adopts in Order 637
certain policies that it finds are necessary to adjust its current regulatory
model to the needs of the evolving markets, but determines that any fundamental
changes to its regulatory policy, which changes were raised and commented on in
the NOPR and NOI, will be considered after further study and evaluation of the
evolving marketplace. Most significantly, in Order 637, the FERC (i) revises its
pricing policy to waive, for a two-year period, the maximum price ceilings for
short-term releases of capacity of less than one year, and (ii) permits
pipelines to file proposals to implement seasonal rates for short-term services
and term-differentiated rates, subject to certain requirements including the
requirement that a pipeline be limited to recovering its annual revenue
requirement under those rates.

     In fourth-quarter 1999, based on developments in regulatory proceedings
involving Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and on advice from counsel,
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line reduced its accrued liability for rate refunds by
$21 million to reflect its conclusion that the risk associated with one of the
issues in this proceeding has been eliminated. The $21 million reduction is
included in Gas Pipeline's segment revenues and segment profit for 1999.
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line is continuing to accrue amounts to account for
other issues that may ultimately affect Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's rate of
return in this proceeding. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line believes the remaining
liability is adequate for any refunds that may be required.

     On July 15, 1998, Williams Pipe Line (WPL) received an Order from the FERC
which affirmed an administrative law judge's 1996 initial decision regarding
rate-making proceedings for the period September 15, 1990, through May 1, 1992.
The FERC has ruled that WPL did not meet its burden of establishing that its
transportation rates in its 12 noncompetitive markets were just and reasonable
for the period and has ordered refunds. WPL accrued $15.5 million, including
interest, in second-quarter 1998, for potential refunds to customers for the
issues described above. On May 20, 1999, WPL submitted an uncontested offer of
settlement to the presiding administrative law judge that would resolve all
outstanding rate issues on WPL from September 1, 1990, to the present. This
settlement was certified to the FERC as uncontested on June 23, 1999. On October
13, 1999, the FERC approved the settlement without conditions. Based on this
favorable settlement and FERC approval, $6.5 million of the original $15.5
million loss provision was reversed in 1999. The settlement became final and
non-appealable on December 13, 1999.

  Environmental matters

     Since 1989, Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line have had studies
under way to test certain of their facilities for the presence of toxic and
hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any, remediation may be
necessary. Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line has responded to data requests
regarding such potential contamination of certain of its sites. The costs of any
such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation. At December 31,
1999, these subsidiaries had accrued liabilities totaling approximately $27
million for these costs.

     Certain Williams subsidiaries, including Texas Gas and Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, have been identified as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at
various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these
subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other
hazardous materials removal or remediation obligations under environmental laws.
Although no assurances can be given, Williams does not believe that these
obligations or the PRP status of these subsidiaries will have a material adverse
effect on its financial position, results of operations or net cash flows.

                                      F-56

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have identified
polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) contamination in air compressor systems, soils
and related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transcontinental Gas
Pipe Line, Texas Gas and Central have also been involved in negotiations with
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state agencies to develop
screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In addition, negotiations with certain
environmental authorities and other programs concerning investigative and
remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at certain gas
metering sites have been commenced by Central, Texas Gas and Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line. As of December 31, 1999, Central had accrued a liability for
approximately $11 million, representing the current estimate of future
environmental cleanup costs to be incurred over the next six to 10 years. Texas
Gas and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line likewise had accrued liabilities for
these costs which are included in the $27 million liability mentioned above.
Actual costs incurred will depend on the actual number of contaminated sites
identified, the actual amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final
cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities and
other factors. Texas Gas, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and Central have
deferred these costs as incurred pending recovery through future rates and other
means.

     Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line received a letter stating that the U.S.
Department of Justice (DOJ), at the request of the EPA, intends to file a civil
action against Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line arising from its waste management
practices at Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line's compressor stations and metering
stations in 11 states from Texas to New Jersey. DOJ stated in the letter that
its complaint will seek civil penalties and injunctive relief under federal
environmental laws. DOJ and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line are discussing a
settlement. While no specific amount was proposed, DOJ stated that any
settlement must include an appropriate civil penalty for the alleged violations.
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line cannot reasonably estimate the amount of its
potential liability, if any, at this time. However, Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line believes it has substantially addressed environmental concerns on its
system through ongoing voluntary remediation and management programs.

     Energy Services (WES) also accrues environmental remediation costs for its
natural gas gathering and processing facilities, petroleum products pipelines,
retail petroleum, refining and propane marketing operations primarily related to
soil and groundwater contamination. At December 31, 1999, WES and its
subsidiaries had accrued liabilities totaling approximately $42 million. WES
recognizes receivables related to environmental remediation costs based upon an
estimate of amounts that will be reimbursed from state funds for certain
expenses associated with underground storage tank problems and repairs. At
December 31, 1999, WES and its subsidiaries had accrued receivables totaling $19
million.

     Williams Field Services (WFS), a WES subsidiary, received a Notice of
Violation (NOV) from the EPA in February 2000. WFS received a contemporaneous
letter from the DOJ indicating that DOJ will also be involved in the matter. The
NOV alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at a gas processing plant. WFS
intends to defend this matter, but cannot reasonably estimate the amount of
potential liability, if any, at this time. EPA, DOJ, and WFS have scheduled
settlement negotiation meetings beginning in March 2000.

     In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of Agrico Chemical Company,
Williams agreed to indemnify the purchaser for environmental cleanup costs
resulting from certain conditions at specified locations, to the extent such
costs exceed a specified amount. At December 31, 1999, Williams had
approximately $13 million accrued for such excess costs. The actual costs
incurred will depend on the actual amount and extent of contamination
discovered, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other
governmental authorities, and other factors.

  Other legal matters

     In connection with agreements to resolve take-or-pay and other contract
claims and to amend gas purchase contracts, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line and
Texas Gas each entered into certain settlements with producers which may require
the indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties which the
producers
                                      F-57

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

may be required to pay as a result of such settlements. As a result of such
settlements, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line is currently defending two lawsuits
brought by producers. In one of the cases, a jury verdict found that
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line was required to pay a producer damages of $23.3
million including $3.8 million in attorneys' fees. Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line is pursuing an appeal. In the other case, a producer has asserted damages,
including interest calculated through December 31, 1997, of approximately $6
million. Producers have received and may receive other demands, which could
result in additional claims. Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among
other things, the specific lease provisions between the producer and the lessor
and the terms of the settlement between the producer and either Transcontinental
Gas Pipe Line or Texas Gas. Texas Gas may file to recover 75 percent of any such
additional amounts it may be required to pay pursuant to indemnities for
royalties under the provisions of Order 528.

     In connection with the sale of certain coal assets in 1996, MAPCO entered
into a Letter Agreement with the buyer providing for indemnification by MAPCO
for reductions in the price or tonnage of coal delivered under a certain
pre-existing Coal Sales Agreement dated December 1, 1986. The Letter Agreement
is effective for reductions during the period July 1, 1996, through December 31,
2002, and provides for indemnification for such reductions as incurred on a
quarterly basis. On October 7, 1999, MAPCO settled buyer's claims for
indemnification under the Letter Agreement and certain other unrelated claims in
exchange for payment by MAPCO in the amount of $35 million which had been
accrued in prior years.

     In 1998, the United States Department of Justice informed Williams that
Jack Grynberg, an individual, had filed claims in the United States District
Court for the District of Colorado under the False Claims Act against Williams
and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries including Williams Gas Pipelines
Central, Kern River Gas Transmission, Northwest Pipeline, Williams Gas Pipeline
Company, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation, Texas Gas, Williams Field
Services Company and Williams Production Company. Mr. Grynberg has also filed
claims against approximately 300 other energy companies and alleges that the
defendants violated the False Claims Act in connection with the measurement and
purchase of hydrocarbons. The relief sought is an unspecified amount of
royalties allegedly not paid to the federal government, treble damages, a civil
penalty, attorneys' fees, and costs. On April 9, 1999, the United States
Department of Justice announced that it was declining to intervene in any of the
Grynberg qui tam cases, including the action filed against the Williams entities
in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. On October 21,
1999, the Panel on Multi-District Litigation transferred all of the Grynberg qui
tam cases, including the ones filed against Williams, to the United States
District Court for the District of Wyoming for pre-trial purposes.

     Shrier v. Williams was filed on August 4, 1999, in the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of Oklahoma. Oxford v. Williams was filed on September
3, 1999, in state court in Jefferson County, Texas. The Oxford complaint was
amended to add an additional plaintiff on September 24, 1999. On October 1,
1999, the case was removed to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District
of Texas, Beaumont Division. Plaintiffs have filed a motion seeking to remand
the case back to state court. In each lawsuit, the plaintiff seeks to bring a
nationwide class action on behalf of all landowners on whose property the
plaintiffs have alleged WCG installed fiber-optic cable without the permission
of the landowner. The plaintiffs are seeking a declaratory ruling that WCG is
trespassing, damages resulting from the alleged trespass, damages based on WCG's
profits from use of the property and damages from alleged fraud. Relief
requested by the plaintiff includes injunction against further trespass, actual
and punitive damages, and attorneys' fees.

     Williams believes that installation of the cable containing the
single-fiber network that crosses over or near the named plaintiffs' land does
not infringe on the plaintiffs' property rights. Williams also does not believe
that the plaintiffs in these lawsuits have sufficient basis for certification of
a class action. The proposed composition of the class in the Oxford lawsuit
appears to include only landowners who would also be included in the class
proposed in the Shrier suit.

     Other communications carriers have been successfully challenged with
respect to their rights to use railroad rights of way, which are also challenged
by the plaintiffs in Schrier and Oxford. Approximately
                                      F-58

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

15 percent of the WCG network is installed on railroad rights of way. In many
areas, the railroad granting WCG the license holds full ownership of the land,
in which case its license should be sufficient to give WCG valid rights to cross
the property. In some states where the railroad is not the property owner but
has an easement over the property, the law is unsettled as to whether a
landowner's approval is required. WCG generally did not obtain landowner
approval where the rights of way are located on railroad easements. In most
states, WCG has eminent domain rights which WCG believes would limit the
liability for any trespass damages. It is likely that WCG will be subject to
other purported class action suits challenging the use of railroad or pipeline
rights of way. WCG cannot quantify the impact of all such claims at this time.

     In addition to the foregoing, various other proceedings are pending against
Williams or its subsidiaries which are incidental to their operations.

  Summary

     While no assurances may be given, Williams, based on advice of counsel,
does not believe that the ultimate resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as
a whole and after consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery
from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will have a materially
adverse effect upon Williams' future financial position, results of operations
or cash flow requirements.

  Commitments

     Energy Marketing & Trading has entered into certain contracts giving
Williams the right to receive fuel conversion and certain other services for
purposes of generating electricity. At December 31, 1999, annual estimated
committed payments under these contracts range from approximately $20 million to
$383 million, resulting in total committed payments over the next 23 years of
approximately $7 billion.

     Williams has also entered into an agreement giving Williams a 25 year right
to use a portion of a third party's wireless local capacity. Williams will pay a
total of $400 million over four years for this right and will amortize the total
payments over the 25 year usage term. As of December 31, 1999, Williams has paid
approximately $172 million.

     See Note 11 for commitments for construction and acquisition of property,
plant and equipment.

NOTE 20. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     Williams Consolidated Financial Statements include various transactions
with related parties. Significant transactions are as follows.

     Nortel charges Solutions LLC for certain corporate administrative expenses
which are directly identifiable or allocable to Solutions LLC. Direct charges
from Nortel for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were
approximately $2 million, $11 million and $15 million, respectively. These costs
are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and Solutions'
segment loss.

     Additionally, Solutions LLC purchased inventory from Nortel for use in
equipment installations for $480 million and $468 million in 1999 and 1998,
respectively, and $311 million for the period from April 30, 1997 (date on which
Nortel became a related party) to December 31, 1997. Solutions LLC has a
distribution agreement with Nortel that extends through December 2002. If for
two consecutive years the percentage of Nortel products purchased by Solutions
LLC falls below approximately 78 percent and the rate of growth of the purchase
of Nortel products by Solution LLC during the two-year period is below that of
other Nortel distributors, Nortel may require Williams to buy, or Williams may
require Nortel to sell, Nortel's entire interest in Solutions LLC at market
value.

     In addition, Williams purchased from Nortel, optronics for use on the
communications network for $226 million and $84 million in 1999 and 1998,
respectively.
                                      F-59

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

NOTE 21. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

     The table below presents changes in the components of accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss).



NOTE 22. SEGMENT DISCLOSURES

     Williams evaluates performance based upon segment profit or loss from
operations which includes revenues from external and internal customers, equity
earnings, operating costs and expenses and depreciation, depletion and
amortization. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
described in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Intersegment
sales are generally accounted for as if the sales were to unaffiliated third
parties, that is, at current market prices.

     Williams' reportable segments are strategic business units that offer
different products and services. The segments are managed separately because
each segment requires different technology, marketing strategies and industry
knowledge. Other includes investments in international energy and
communications-related ventures, as well as corporate operations.

     The following table reflects the reconciliation of segment profit, per the
table on page F-62, to operating income as reported on the Consolidated
Statement of Income.



                                      F-60

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following geographic area data includes revenues from external
customers based on product shipment origin and long-lived assets based upon
physical location.



     Long-lived assets are comprised of property, plant and equipment, goodwill
and other intangible assets and certain other non-current assets.

                                      F-61


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONCLUDED)


- ---------------

* Energy Marketing & Trading intercompany cost of sales, which are netted in
  revenues consistent with fair-value accounting, exceed intercompany revenues
  in 1999 and 1998.

                                      F-62


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

     Summarized quarterly financial data are as follows (millions, except
per-share amounts). Certain amounts have been restated or reclassified as
described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.





     The sum of earnings per share for the four quarters may not equal the total
earnings per share for the year due to changes in the average number of common
shares outstanding and rounding.

     First-quarter 1999 net income includes a $5.6 million after-tax charge
related to a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (see Note 1).
Second-quarter 1999 net income includes a $51 million favorable pre-tax
adjustment related to the reduction of certain rate refund liabilities and
related interest accruals resulting from regulatory proceedings involving
rate-of-return methodology (see Note 19). Also included in second-quarter 1999
net income is a $26.7 million pre-tax charge related to the sale of certain of
Strategic Investments' network application businesses. An additional $1.7
million was recorded in the fourth quarter relating to this sale (see Note 5).
Fourth-quarter 1999 net income for Gas Pipeline includes a $21 million favorable
pre-tax reduction of certain rate refund liabilities resulting from recent
developments in regulatory proceedings which concluded that the risk involved
with one of the issues in the proceedings had been eliminated (see Note 19).
Also included in fourth-quarter 1999 net income are pre-tax gains of
approximately $31 million from sales of operating assets (see Note 5) and an
after-tax gain of $65.2 million related to the sale of Williams' retail propane
business, Thermogas L.L.C. (see Note 7).

     First-quarter, second-quarter, third-quarter and fourth-quarter 1998 net
income includes approximately $59 million, $9 million, $6 million and $6
million, respectively, of pre-tax merger-related costs (see Note 2).
Second-quarter 1998 net income also includes a pre-tax $15.5 million loss
provision for potential refunds to customers (see Note 19). Third-quarter 1998
net income includes $17 million in pre-tax credit loss accruals

                                      F-63

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

              QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) -- (CONCLUDED)

for certain retail energy activities. In addition, third-quarter 1998 includes a
$23.2 million pre-tax loss related to a venture involved in the technology and
transmission of business information for news and educational purposes (see Note
5). Fourth-quarter 1998 net income includes pre-tax accruals totaling
approximately $31 million related to the modification of Williams' employees
benefit program. Also included in fourth-quarter 1998 net income is a pre-tax
charge of $58 million related to certain long-term gas supply contracts (see
Note 19) and $14 million for asset impairments related to Energy Services'
decision to change the focus of its retail natural gas and electric business
(see Note 5).

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                      F-64


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               ITEM 14(A) 1 AND 2



     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial
statements and notes thereto.

                                      F-65


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

          SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                          STATEMENT OF INCOME (PARENT)



                            See accompanying notes.
                                      F-66


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONTINUED)
                             BALANCE SHEET (PARENT)

                                     ASSETS



                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-67


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONTINUED)
                        STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (PARENT)



                            See accompanying notes.

                                      F-68


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONTINUED)
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT)

NOTE 1. BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     During 1999, Williams Holdings of Delaware, Inc., a wholly owned
subsidiary, merged with and into The Williams Companies, Inc. (Parent) (Williams
(Parent)). Subsequent to the merger, this Condensed Financial Information of
Registrant includes the accounts previously reported by Williams Holdings of
Delaware, Inc. (Williams Holdings) on a parent company-only basis. The assets
and liabilities of Williams Holdings included $1.4 billion of equity in
consolidated subsidiaries, a net $1.0 billion due from consolidated
subsidiaries, $1.1 billion of notes payable, $114 million of deferred income tax
liabilities and $1.3 billion of long-term debt. This Condensed Financial
Information of Registrant should be read in conjunction with The Williams
Companies, Inc. (Williams) Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.

NOTE 2. DEBT AND BANKING ARRANGEMENTS

  Notes payable

     Williams (Parent) has entered into a commercial paper program backed by a
$1.4 billion short-term bank-credit facility. Prior to the 1999 Williams
Holdings merger, this commercial paper program was included in Williams
Holdings. At December 31, 1999, $1.2 billion of commercial paper was outstanding
under the program. In addition, Williams has entered into various other
short-term credit agreements with amounts outstanding totaling $50 million at
December 31, 1999. The weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding
short-term borrowings at December 31, 1999 was 6.1 percent.

  Long-term debt

     Williams has a $1 billion revolving credit agreement under which certain
subsidiaries have access to varying amounts while Williams (Parent) has access
to all unborrowed amounts. Interest rates vary with current market conditions.



- ---------------

 *  At December 31, 1999, including the effects of interest-rate swaps.

(1) $300 million, 5.95% notes, payable 2010, and $240 million, 6.125% notes,
    payable 2012, are subject to redemption at par at the option of the
    debtholder in 2000 and 2002, respectively.

     For financial reporting purposes at December 31, 1999, $404 million in
obligations which would have otherwise been classified as current debt
obligations have been classified as non-current based on Williams' (Parent)
intent and ability to refinance on a long-term basis. Williams' (Parent)
issuance in January 2000 of $500 million of adjustable rate notes due 2001 is
sufficient to complete these refinancings.

                                      F-69

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONCLUDED)
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT)

     Aggregate minimum maturities and sinking fund requirements, excluding lease
payments, for each of the next five years are as follows:



NOTE 3. DUE FROM AND DUE TO CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES

     Due from and due to consolidated subsidiaries consist of short-term
receivables and payables with subsidiaries and promissory notes to and from
subsidiaries. Williams (Parent) maintains various promissory notes with its
subsidiaries for both advances from and advances to Williams (Parent) depending
on the cash position of each subsidiary. Amounts outstanding are payable on
demand; however, the amounts outstanding at December 31, 1999 and 1998 have been
classified as long-term to the extent there are no expectations for Williams
(Parent) and its subsidiaries to demand payment in the next year. The agreements
do not require commitment fees. Interest is payable monthly, and rates vary with
market conditions.

     In 1999, Williams (Parent) issued $175 million in zero coupon subordinated
debentures which yield a 7.92 percent return and mature no later than March 2002
to Williams Capital Trust I, a consolidated entity. These debentures are
included in non-current due to consolidated subsidiaries at December 31, 1999.

     In 1995, Williams (Parent) issued $360 million in convertible debentures
and warrants to Williams Holdings in exchange for 12.2 million shares of
Williams (Parent) common stock purchased on the open market and held by that
subsidiary. The debentures were included in non-current due to consolidated
subsidiaries at December 31, 1998. Upon the 1999 merger of Williams Holdings
into Williams (Parent), the convertible debentures and warrants were retired.

NOTE 4. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     During 1999, each remaining share of Williams (Parent) $3.50 cumulative
convertible preferred stock was converted at the option of the holder into
4.6875 shares of Williams common stock prior to the redemption date.

     During 1999, Williams (Parent) contributed approximately 18.7 million
shares of its previously un-issued common stock to a wholly owned subsidiary in
exchange for investments in certain foreign operations which were subsequently
contributed by Williams (Parent) to another wholly owned subsidiary. The
issuance of the common stock was recorded at the May 27, 1999 market value of
$915 million. For the Condensed Financial Information of Registrant, the
issuance of the stock is reflected in stockholders' equity, however, the
issuance of the stock is eliminated for the Consolidated Financial Statements of
Williams.

     See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
the impact on Williams (Parent) of the 1999 issuance of common stock by a
subsidiary.

NOTE 5. DIVIDENDS RECEIVED

     Cash dividend from subsidiaries and companies accounted for on an equity
basis are as follows: 1999 -- $162.0 million; 1998 -- $177.5 million; and
1997 -- $266.9 million.

NOTE 6. GUARANTEES

     At December 31, 1999, Williams Communications Group, Inc., a subsidiary of
Williams (Parent), has a $1.05 billion long term credit agreement that is
guaranteed by Williams (Parent). Williams (Parent) is

                                      F-70

                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

   SCHEDULE I -- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT -- (CONCLUDED)
                    NOTES TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT)

expected to be released from the guarantees in the first quarter of 2000. At
December 31, 1999 no amounts were outstanding under this facility.

     See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
Williams (Parent) guarantee of the residual value of network assets under lease.
In addition, see Notes 14 and 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for discussion of other guarantees by Williams (Parent).

NOTE 7. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of
environmental matters related to the assets of Agrico Chemical Company which
were sold in 1987.

                                      F-71


                          THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



- ---------------

(a)  Deducted from related assets.

(b)  Included in liabilities.

(c)  Represents balances written off, net of recoveries and reclassifications.

(d)  Represents payments made.

(e)  Primarily relates to acquisitions of businesses.

                                      F-72


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information regarding the Directors and nominees for Director of
Williams required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is presented under the heading
"Election of Directors" in Williams' Proxy Statement prepared for the
solicitation of proxies in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of
the Company for 2000 (the "Proxy Statement"), which information is incorporated
by reference herein. A copy of the Proxy Statement is filed as an exhibit to the
Form 10-K. Information regarding the executive officers of Williams is presented
following Item 4 herein, as permitted by General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K
and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K. Information required by Item
405 of Regulation S-K is included under the heading "Compliance with Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K regarding executive
compensation is presented under the headings "Election of Directors" and
"Executive Compensation and Other Information" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the information provided under the headings "Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation" and "Stockholder Return Performance Presentation" in the
Proxy Statement are not incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the Proxy
Statement is filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information regarding the security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is presented under
the headings "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" in
the Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein. A
copy of the Proxy Statement is filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information regarding certain relationships and related transactions
required by Item 404 of Regulation S-K is presented under the heading "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions" in the Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein. A copy of the Proxy Statement
is filed as an exhibit to the Form 10-K.

                                      III-1


                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) 1 and 2. The financial statements and schedules listed in the
accompanying index to consolidated financial statements are filed as part of
this annual report.

     (a) 3 and (c). The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this annual
report.



                                      IV-1




                                      IV-2




- ---------------

*  Each such exhibit has heretofore been filed with the Securities and Exchange
   Commission as part of the filing indicated and is incorporated herein by
   reference.

                                      IV-3


     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     On October 18, 1999, Williams filed a current report on Form 8-K to report
that its subsidiary, Williams Communications Group, Inc., had sold a minority
equity interest to the public in an initial public offering.

     (d) The financial statements of partially-owned companies are not presented
herein since none of them individually, or in the aggregate, constitute a
significant subsidiary.

                                      IV-4


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.
                                            (Registrant)

                                            By:   /s/ SHAWNA L. GEHRES
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                      Shawna L. Gehres
                                                      Attorney-in-fact

Dated: March 28, 2000

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






Dated: March 28, 2000


                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS



