
10-K405
10-K405




                                    FORM 10-K
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended DECEMBER 31, 1995
                          -----------------

[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ............ to .............

Commission File No. 1-9328
                    ------

                             ---------------------

                                   ECOLAB INC.                      
            --------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                     41-0231510     
- -------------------------------                   --------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

   Ecolab Center, St. Paul, Minnesota                   55102        
- ----------------------------------------              ----------
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   (612) 293-2233 
                                                      --------------

                             ---------------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     TITLE OF EACH CLASS      NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
     -------------------      -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, $1.00 par value      New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                   Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights    New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                   Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

                             ---------------------

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
YES   X    NO      
    -----     -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [ X ]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of Registrant on
March 19, 1996:  $1,874,851,677 (see Item 12, on pages 18 and 19 hereof).  The
number of shares of Registrant's Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share,
outstanding as of March 19, 1996: 64,507,350 shares.



                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     1.   Portions of Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
          ended December 31, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as "Annual Report")
          are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV.

     2.   Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
          to be held May 10, 1996 and to be filed within 120 days after the
          Registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 1995 (hereinafter referred
          to as "Proxy Statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III. 


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

ITEM 1(A) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Except where the context otherwise requires, the terms "Company" and "Ecolab,"
as used herein, include Ecolab Inc. and its subsidiaries.  Ecolab Inc. was
incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924.  The Company's fiscal year is
the calendar year ending December 31.

The Company and Henkel KGaA of Dusseldorf, Germany, each have a 50% economic
interest in a joint venture which operates institutional and industrial cleaning
and sanitizing businesses in Europe, and which is referred to hereafter as the
"Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture" or "Joint Venture."  Henkel KGaA, by virtue of a
tie-breaking vote on certain operational matters, may control the day-to-day
operations of the Joint Venture.  Strategic decisions concerning the Joint
Venture require the agreement of Henkel and the Company.  The Company accounts
for its interest in the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture under the equity method of
accounting and therefore does not consolidate the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
revenues and expenses.  Except where the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture is
specifically referred to, the description of business in Part I does not include
the business of the Joint Venture.

ITEM 1(B) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The Company's operations are all conducted in one industry segment.

ITEM 1(C) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

The Company is engaged in the development and marketing of premium products and
services for the hospitality, institutional and industrial markets.  The Company
provides cleaning, sanitizing, pest elimination and maintenance products,
systems and services primarily to hotels and restaurants, foodservice,
healthcare and educational facilities, commercial and institutional laundries, 

                                      - 2 -



light industry, dairy plants and farms, and food and beverage processors.

A strong commitment to service is the distinguishing characteristic of the
Company.  Products, systems and services are primarily marketed in domestic and
international markets by Company-trained sales and service personnel who also
advise and assist customers in the proper and efficient use of the products and
systems.  Distributors are utilized in several markets.

The Company manufactures most of its products and related equipment in
Company-owned manufacturing facilities.  Some are also produced for the Company
by third party contract manufacturers.  Other products and equipment,
particularly those used in the Company's Pest Elimination business, are
purchased from third party suppliers.  Additional information on the Company's
manufacturing facilities is located under Item 2 below under the heading
"Properties."

As described below, not all of the businesses conducted in the United States and
Canada by the Company are conducted in all other international locations, and
the extent and nature of such international businesses, as well as the
competitive environment, varies by location.  European markets, as described
under Item 1(a) above under the heading "General Development of Business," are
served through the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture, although the Kay business does
have sales in Europe.

In the United States and Canada, the Company operates through seven divisions: 
Institutional, Kay, Food and Beverage (formerly Klenzade), Pest Elimination,
Textile Care, Janitorial and Water Care Services.  Institutional and Food and
Beverage businesses are operated in virtually all locations outside of the
United States and Canada.  As described below, the businesses of the remaining
divisions are not conducted in all areas outside of the United States and
Canada, but these businesses are being introduced in an expanding number of
international locations.  

The Company conducts business in approximately 26 countries outside of the
United States, primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries.  In certain other
countries, selected products are sold by distributors or agents, although those
sales are not significant in terms of the Company's overall revenues.  For the
year ended December 31, 1995, international sales comprised approximately 23% of
the Company's total reported revenues.  For purposes of public financial
reporting, international operations include Canada, but on an operational basis
the businesses in Canada are generally operated as a part of North American
operations.

                                      - 3 -



BUSINESS DIVISIONS

The following descriptions of the Company's divisions include a discussion,
where applicable, of the similar business currently conducted outside of the
United States.  The Company pursues a "Circle the Customer - Circle the Globe"
strategy by developing relationships and partnerships with customers who require
the services of more than one division.  Therefore, a single customer may
utilize the services of several of the Company's divisions.

INSTITUTIONAL:  The Institutional Division is the Company's largest division and
sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware,
flatware, food service utensils and kitchen equipment ("warewashing"), for
on-premise laundries (typically used by customers having smaller machines and
laundry needs) and for general housekeeping functions, as well as dishwasher
racks and related kitchen sundries to the food-service, lodging, educational and
healthcare industries.  The Institutional Division also markets various chemical
dispensing device systems, which are generally loaned to customers, to apply the
Company's cleaners and sanitizers.  Substantially similar businesses are
conducted in all international locations although somewhat less extensive
product lines are often offered internationally.  Also, through its Ecotemp
offering, the Institutional Division markets, primarily to smaller and mid-size
customer units, a program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines,
detergents and rinse additives, including full machine maintenance.  

The Company believes it is the leading supplier of chemical warewashing products
to institutions in the United States and Canada and is one of the leading
suppliers worldwide except for Europe where the business is conducted by the
Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture.  

The Institutional Division sells its products and services primarily through
Company-employed field sales and service personnel.  The Company also utilizes
independent food service distributors to market and sell its products to smaller
accounts or accounts which purchase through food distributors.  This
distribution system encompasses most of the Division's product line and the
Company provides the same service to accounts served by food distributors as to
direct customers.  

KAY:  The Kay Division was acquired in December, 1994 and is operated through
wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company.  Kay supplies chemical cleaning and
sanitizing products primarily to the quick-service restaurant ("fast-food")
industry.  Kay's products include specialty and general purpose hard surface
cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes and hand care products and assorted
cleaning tools.  Products are sold under the "Kay" brand or the customer's
private label.  Kay employs a direct field sales force which primarily calls
upon national and regional quick service restaurant chains and franchisees,
although the sales are

                                      - 4 -



made to distributors who supply the chain or franchisee's restaurants.  The
addition of the Kay business has significantly expanded the Company's presence
in the restaurant and food service industry beyond the full service market to
the quick-service industry. 

Kay sales are primarily in the United States but international sales have grown
as United States based customers have expanded into international markets.  With
minor exceptions for product made at international locations by contract
manufacturers, Kay's international sales are made either to domestic
distributors, who export to international accounts, or by export sales to
distributors located at international locations.

The Company believes that its Kay Division is the leading supplier of chemical
cleaning and sanitizing products to the quick-service industry in the United
States as well as in certain international markets.  While the Kay customer base
has been growing, Kay's business is largely dependent upon a limited number of
major national and international quick-service restaurant chains and
franchisees.

FOOD AND BEVERAGE:  The Food and Beverage Division (formerly known as Klenzade)
provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants, animal health and water
treatment products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and
chemical injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy
plants, dairy, poultry and swine farms, breweries, soft drink bottling plants,
and meat, poultry and other food processors as well as to pharmaceutical and
cosmetic plants.  The Food and Beverage Division also designs, engineers and
installs CIP (clean-in-place) process control systems and facility cleaning
systems to its customer base.  Farm products (which include bovine teat
products) are sold through dealers and distributors, while plant products are
sold primarily by the Company's field sales personnel.  The Company believes
that it is one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to
the dairy plant, dairy farm and beverage processor industries in the United
States.  The Food and Beverage business operates in most international
locations.

PEST ELIMINATION:  The Pest Elimination Division provides services for the
elimination and prevention of pests to restaurants, food and beverage
processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels and other
institutional and commercial customers.  These services are sold and performed
by Company-employed sales and service personnel.  The Company believes it is the
largest provider of premium pest elimination services to institutions in the
United States.  The Pest Elimination business currently is operated primarily in
the United States, with limited sales in Puerto Rico and parts of Canada,
Mexico, Hong Kong and New Zealand.  

                                      - 5 -




TEXTILE CARE:  The Textile Care Division provides chemical laundry products and
proprietary dispensing systems, as well as related services, to large
institutional and commercial laundries and to certain smaller laundry
operations.  Typically these customers process a minimum of 1,000,000 pounds of
linen each year.  These products and services include laundry cleaning and
specialty products and related dispensing equipment, which are marketed
primarily through a Company-employed sales force and, to a lesser extent,
through distributors.  The Textile Care offerings compliment the Institutional
Division's offerings to small-to-medium size on-premise laundry facilities.  The
Textile Care products are sold primarily in the United States and Canada, but
similar product lines are sold in a number of other international locations.

JANITORIAL:  The Janitorial Division provides a full line of janitorial
offerings that includes odor counteractants, disinfectants, floor care or hard
surface and carpet care systems, hand care products and general cleaners which
are sold to both the industrial and institutional janitorial market in the
United States and Canada.  The Company believes it is the largest supplier of
infection control and general cleaners to the United States healthcare industry.
Products are sold in the United States and Canada through a Company-employed
sales force as well as a network of independent distributors who sell
janitorial-related products and services to the institutional and industrial
marketplaces.  A private-label program also manufactures non-proprietary
janitorial-related products for resale by major distributor organizations in the
United States and Canada.  Janitorial products are also sold on a limited basis
in other international markets.

WATER CARE SERVICES:  The Water Care Services Division provides water treatment
products, services and systems for institutional, commercial and light
industrial customers.  Operations are presently concentrated in North America,
where the Company acquired three existing water care businesses in late 1994 and
1995.  Water Care Services works closely with the Company's Institutional,
Textile Care and Food and Beverage Divisions to offer customized water care
strategies to the hospitality, healthcare markets and to light industry,
primarily to treat water used for heating and cooling systems.  In selected
United States markets, the Division also provides pool and spa treatment
programs for commercial and hospitality customers.  Water Care Services expects
to expand its coverage in North America during 1996 through additional
acquisitions and internal growth.  In addition to North America operations,
certain water treatment businesses are operated at selected international
locations, primarily Brazil, South Africa and Southeast Asia.

                                      - 6 -



COMPETITION

The Company emphasizes its ability to uniformly provide a variety of related
premium cleaning and sanitation services to multiple locations of chain customer
organizations worldwide.  This is succinctly stated in the Company's "Circle the
Customer - Circle the Globe" strategy.  In executing this strategy, the
Company's business units have two significant classes of competitors.  First,
each business unit competes with a small number of large companies selling
directly or through distributors on a national or international scale.  Some of
these large competitors have substantially greater assets and financial
resources than the Company.  Second, all of the Company's business units have
numerous smaller regional or local competitors focusing on more limited
geographies, product lines, and/or end-user segments.

The Company's objective is to achieve a significant presence in each of its
business markets.  In general, competition is based on service, product
performance and price.  The Company believes it  competes principally by
providing superior value.  Value is provided by state-of-the-art,
environmentally-compatible cleaning products and systems coupled with high
service standards and dedication to customer satisfaction after the initial
sale.  This is made possible, in part, by the significant ongoing investment in
technology development and by the Company's standard practice of assisting
customers in lowering operating costs and complying with environmental and
sanitation regulations.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing products for the Company are
inorganic chemicals, including phosphates, silicates, alkalies, salts and
petrochemical-based materials, including surfactants and solvents.  These
materials are generally purchased on an annual contract basis from a diverse
group of chemical manufacturers.  Pesticides used by the Pest Elimination
Division are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order
from the producers or their distributors.  The Company also purchases packaging
materials for its manufactured products and components for its specialized
cleaning equipment and systems.  Most raw materials, or substitutes for those
materials, used by the Company, with the exception of a few specialized
chemicals which the Company manufactures, are available from several suppliers.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Deliveries to customers are made from the Company's manufacturing plants and a
network of distribution centers and public warehouses.  The Company uses both
common carriers and its own delivery vehicles.  Additional information on the
Company's plant and distribution facilities is located under Item 2 below under
the heading "Properties."

                                      - 7 -



The Company owns a number of patents and trademarks.  Management does not
believe that the Company's overall business is materially dependent on any
individual patent or trademark.

The Company believes that its business is not materially dependent upon a single
customer although, as described above in this Item 1(c) under the description of
the Kay business, Kay is largely dependent upon a limited number of national and
international quick-service chains and franchisees.  No material part of the
Company's business is subject to renegotiation.  The Company sells two classes
of products which each constitute 10 percent or more of its sales.  Worldwide
sales of warewashing products in 1995, 1994 and 1993 approximated 35, 35 and 36
percent, respectively, of the Company's consolidated net sales.  In addition,
the Company, through its Institutional and Textile Care businesses, sells
laundry products and services to a broad range of laundry customers as described
in more detail under the heading "Business Divisions" beginning on page 4
hereof.  Total laundry sales in each of 1995, 1994 and 1993 approximated 15
percent of the Company's consolidated net sales.

The Company's business has little seasonality and has no unusual working capital
requirements.  The Company has in the past, and will continue in the future, to
invest in merchandising equipment consisting primarily of systems used by
customers to dispense the Company's cleaning and sanitizing products.  The
investment in merchandising equipment is discussed under the heading "Cash
Flows" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations incorporated into Item 7 hereof.  

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's research and development program consists principally of devising
or testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the
efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, and evaluating
the environmental compatibility of products.  Key disciplines include analytical
and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering and
product dispensing technology.  Substantially all of the Company's principal
products have been developed by its research and development personnel.  Note
12, entitled "Research Expenditures" located on page 43 of the Annual Report, is
incorporated herein by reference.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

The Company's businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and
regulations relating to the protection of the environment.  While the Company
cooperates with governmental authorities and takes commercially practicable
measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental
effects,

                                      - 8 -



some risks are inherent in the Company's businesses.  The Company's management
believes these are risks which the Company has in common with other companies
engaged in similar businesses.  Among the risks are costs associated with
managing hazardous substances, waste disposal or plant site clean-up, fines and
penalties if the Company were found in violation of law, as well as
modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of
operations.  There can be no assurance that future legislation or enforcement
policies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.  Environmental matters most significant to
the Company are discussed below.

PHOSPHATE LEGISLATION:  Various laws and regulations have been enacted by state,
local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of products which contain
phosphorous.  The primary thrust of such laws and regulations is to regulate the
phosphorous content of home laundry detergents, a market not served by the
Company.  However, certain of the Company's products are affected by such laws
and regulations, including some commercial laundry and warewashing detergents,
cleaners and sanitizers.  Three types of legislative restrictions are common: 
(1) labeling of phosphorous content, (2) percentage limitation on the amount of
phosphorous permitted and (3) a ban on the use of phosphorous in certain
products or in products sold for a particular purpose.  The Company has been
able to comply with legislative requirements and, where necessary, has developed
products which, although typically less effective than the products they
replace, contain no phosphorous or lower amounts of phosphorous to satisfy the
legislative limitations or bans.  In limited geographic areas, the Company has
obtained a variance from existing zero-phosphorous legislation.  Phosphate
legislation has not had a material negative effect on the Company's operations
to date.

PESTICIDE LEGISLATION:  Various federal and state environmental laws and
regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of pesticides.  The Company
manufactures and sells certain disinfecting and sanitizing products which kill
microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on environmental surfaces.  Such
products constitute "pesticides" under the current definitions of the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), the principal federal statute
governing the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides.  These
products must be registered with the United States Environmental Protection
Agency ("EPA").  Registration entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy and
labeling requirements and to pay initial and on-going registration fees.  In
addition, each state in which these products are sold requires registration and
payment of a fee.  In general, the states impose no substantive requirements
different from those required by FIFRA.  However, California does have its own
regulatory scheme and

                                      - 9 -



certain other states have regulatory schemes under consideration.  In addition,
California imposes a tax on total pesticide sales in that state.  While the
costs of complying with rules as to pesticides has not had a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial condition or the results of its operations to
date, the costs and delays in receiving necessary approvals for these products
has increased in recent years.  The Company believes that the nature of these
costs and regulatory delays are similar to those encountered by other companies
in similar businesses.  Total fees paid to the EPA and the states to obtain or
maintain pesticide registrations, and for the California tax, in 1995 were
approximately $876,000.  Such costs may increase somewhat in 1996, but not in
amounts which are expected to significantly affect the Company's results of
operations, consolidated financial condition or liquidity.

In addition, the Company's Pest Elimination Division applies restricted-use
pesticides which it purchases from third parties.  That Division must comply
with certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the
licensing of employees who apply such pesticides.  Such regulations are enforced
primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with federal
regulations.  The Company has not experienced material difficulties in complying
with these requirements.  

OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION:  The Company's manufacturing plants are subject
to federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating
to discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the
transportation, handling and disposal of such substances.  The primary federal
statutes that apply to the Company's activities are the Clean Air Act, the Clean
Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA").  The Company
makes capital investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and
regulations, to ensure employee safety and to carry out its announced
environmental stewardship principles.  To date such expenditures have not had a
significant adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company or its
results of operations.  The Company's capital expenditures for environmental
control projects incurred for 1995 and budgeted for 1996 are approximately
$900,000 and $300,000, respectively.  The Company is also subject to the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain
reporting requirements as to emissions of toxic substances into the air, land
and water.

Along with numerous other potentially responsible parties ("PRPs"), the Company
is currently involved with waste disposal site clean-up activities imposed by
the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act
("CERCLA") or state equivalents at 12 waste disposal sites which received
nominal amounts of waste materials alleged to have been generated by the Company
or its subsidiaries.  In general, under CERCLA, the Company

                                     - 10 -



and each other PRP which actually contributes hazardous substances to a
superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs associated with
cleaning up the site.  Customarily, the PRP's will work with the EPA to agree
and implement a plan for site remediation and the allocation of each PRP's
involvement.  The above sites are in various stages of investigation,
negotiation or remediation.  However, based on an analysis of the Company's
experience with such sites, the Company's estimated share of all hazardous
materials deposited on the site, and the Company's estimate of the contribution
to be made by other PRP's which the Company believes have the financial ability
to pay their shares, the Company has accrued its reasonable estimate of the
Company's future costs relating to such known sites.

Also, the Company is involved in certain continuing clean-up activities as
required by New Jersey and Nebraska environmental authorities at two sites
currently or formerly used by the Company.  The costs associated with these
sites are comprised primarily of remediation efforts associated with soil and
ground water contamination.  In each of these matters, the Company has worked
with appropriate authorities to resolve the issues involved and has accrued its
reasonable estimate of future costs relating to such sites.

A legal action commenced in August, 1989 in the District Court in Zwolle,
Netherlands, by the Netherlands government against a former subsidiary of the
Company remains pending.  Netherlands authorities are seeking monetary damages
to cover the cost of investigation and planned cleanup of soil and groundwater
contamination, allegedly resulting from the discharge of wastewater and
chemicals during a period ended in 1981 when the subsidiary operated a plant on
the site.  Damages claimed are approximately US$10,000,000.  The former 
subsidiary, now owned by the Henkel-Ecolab joint venture, has denied liability
and believes it complied with applicable Netherlands law.  Even if the
Netherlands government should prevail as to liability, it is believed the
reasonable costs of investigation and cleanup are less than that claimed by the
government.  The Company has indemnified the Henkel-Ecolab joint venture as to
any liability associated with this matter.  Accordingly, an accrual has been
recorded, reflecting management's best estimate of future costs.  

During 1995, the Company's expenditures for contamination remediation were
approximately $500,000.  The accrual at the end of 1995 for future remediation
expenditures was approximately $8,500,000.  The Company reviews its exposure for
contamination remediation costs periodically and its accruals are adjusted as
considered appropriate.  In establishing accruals, the Company does not
anticipate recovery of costs from insurance proceeds.  While the final
resolution of these issues could result in costs below or above current
accruals, the Company believes the ultimate resolution of these matters will not
have a significant effect on

                                     - 11 -



the Company's results of operations, consolidated financial position or
liquidity.

In addition, the Company has retained responsibility for certain sites where the
Company's former ChemLawn business is a PRP.  Currently there are nine such
locations and at each, ChemLawn is a de minimus party.  Anticipated costs
currently accrued for these matters were included in the Company's loss from its
discontinued ChemLawn operations in 1991.

NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES

The Company currently has approximately 9,000 employees worldwide.

ITEM 1(d) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT
SALES

The financial information appearing under the heading "Geographic Segments" in
Note 14, located on page 43 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by
reference.  Transfers between geographic areas are not significant.

A description of the business done outside of the United States is included in
Item 1(c), above.  International businesses are subject to the usual risks of
foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment
laws, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions
abroad.  International operations constitute the fastest growing segment of the
Company's business.  Profitability of international operations is lower than
profitability of businesses in the United States because of lower international
operating income margins due to the difference in scale of international
operations where operating locations are smaller in size and due to the
additional costs of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The persons listed in the following table are the current executive officers of
the Company.  Officers are elected annually.  There is no family relationship
among any of the directors or executive officers, and none of such persons has
been involved during the past five years in any legal proceedings described in
applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.





                                     - 12 -





                                     - 13 -






Mr. Spooner joined the Company as Senior Vice President-Industrial in June 1994.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Spooner was employed by PepsiCo, Inc. for 15
years, holding various positions in operations and business development,
including most recently, President of the North Division of Frito-Lay, Inc.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company's manufacturing facilities produce chemical products or equipment
for all the Company's businesses except the Pest Elimination Division which
purchases products and substantially all its equipment from outside suppliers. 
The Company's chemical

                                     - 14 -



production process consists primarily of blending and packaging powders and
liquids and casting solids.  

The Company's United States plant facilities devoted primarily to the production
of chemical products are located in Joliet, Illinois; Woodbridge, New Jersey;
McDonough, Georgia; Garland, Texas; San Jose, California; and Hebron, Ohio. 
Smaller plant facilities in Franklin Park, Illinois; North Kansas City,
Missouri; Charlotte, North Carolina and Grand Forks, North Dakota produce
certain chemical products primarily for the Company's Textile Care, Water Care
Services and Janitorial divisions.  These facilities are all Company-owned.  The
Company's Kay business also owns and operates manufacturing facilites in
Greensboro, North Carolina and Dallas, Texas.  

Additional chemical manufacturing facilities are located in Dorado, Puerto Rico;
Santa Cruz, Brazil; Hamilton, New Zealand; Noda and Shika, Japan; Singapore;
Jakarta, Indonesia; Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, Australia; Seoul, South
Korea; Mexico City, Mexico, and Toronto, Canada.  The buildings and land for the
facilities located in Canada, Australia and Puerto Rico are leased.  A chemical
plant, which is co-owned with a Chinese joint venture partner, is located near
Shanghai, People's Republic of China, and a leased chemical plant is located in
Chile.  Smaller chemical plant facilities are owned in certain other countries
including Costa Rica and South Africa.

The Company's plant in South Beloit, Illinois produces chemical product
dispensers and injectors and other mechanical equipment.  A leased plant, which
manufactures dishwasher racks and related sundries, is located in Elk Grove
Village, Illinois.  Dishwasher racks are also produced at the Shika, Japan
plant.  A leased facility in Memphis, Tennessee serves as a dishwashing machine
refurbishing center.

The Company believes its manufacturing facilities are in good condition and are
adequate to meet existing production needs.

Most of the Company's manufacturing plants also serve as distribution centers. 
In addition, in the United States the Company operates 5 distribution centers,
all of which are leased, and utilizes approximately 30 primary public
warehouses.  Internationally, the Company operates various additional leased or
public warehouses to facilitate distribution and, in the United States, operates
approximately 115 sales offices, including three Company-owned facilities.
Additional sales offices are located internationally.

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in downtown St. Paul, Minnesota.
The 19-story building was constructed to the Company's specifications.  The
building is leased by the Company through 1998 and thereafter is subject to
multiple renewals at the

                                     - 15 -



Company's option.  The Company also owns a building in downtown St. Paul
adjacent to its headquarters which is used for general office purposes, as well
as a computer center located in a City of St. Paul industrial development zone
several blocks from the Company's headquarters.  A Company-owned research and
development facility and a chemical pilot plant are located in suburbs of St.
Paul.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Proceedings arising under laws relating to protection of the environment are
discussed at Item 1(c) above, under the heading "Environmental Considerations."

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are defendants in various other
lawsuits and claims arising out of the normal course of business.  In the
opinion of management, the ultimate resolution of this litigation will not have
a material effect on the Company's results of operations, consolidated financial
condition or liquidity.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the
solicitation of proxies, or otherwise, during the fourth quarter.

                                     - 16 -




                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM 5(A) MARKET INFORMATION

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the
Pacific Stock Exchange under the symbol ECL.  The Common Stock is also traded on
the Boston, Cincinnati, Midwest and Philadelphia Exchanges.  The high and low
sales price of the Company's Common Stock on the consolidated transaction
reporting system during 1995 and 1994 was as follows:



The closing stock price on March 19, 1996 was $30-3/8.

ITEM 5(B) HOLDERS

On March 19, 1996 the Company had 4,842 holders of Common Stock of record.

ITEM 5(C) DIVIDENDS

Quarterly cash dividends customarily are paid on the 15th of January, April,
July and October.  Dividends of $0.11 per share were declared in February, May
and August, 1994, $0.125 per share in December, 1994 and February, May and
August, 1995.  A cash dividend of $0.14 per share was declared in December 1995.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The comparative data for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, 1993, 1992 and
1991 inclusive, which are set forth under the heading entitled "Summary
Operating and Financial Data" and which are located on page 46 of the Annual
Report, are incorporated herein by reference.

                                     - 17 -



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

The material appearing under the heading entitled "Financial Discussion,"
located on pages 24 through 30 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The financial statements and material which are an integral part of the
financial statements listed under Item 14 I(1) below and located on pages 31
through 45 of the Annual Report, are filed as a part of this Report and are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The biographical material located on pages 6 through 10 and the paragraph
relating to understandings concerning the election of directors between Henkel
KGaA and the Company located on page 5 of the Proxy Statement appearing under
the heading entitled "Election of Directors," is incorporated herein by
reference.  Information regarding executive officers is presented under the
heading "Executive Officers of the Company" in Part I of this Report on pages 12
through 14.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The material appearing under the heading entitled "Executive Compensation,"
located on pages 11 through 20 of the Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by
reference.  However, pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation
S-K, Item 402(a)(8), the material appearing under the headings entitled "Report
of the Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation" and "Comparison of Five
Year Cumulative Total Return," found, respectively, on pages 11 through 14 and
on page 18 of the Proxy Statement is not incorporated herein.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The material appearing under the headings entitled "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" located on
pages 2 and 3 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  The
holdings of Henkel KGaA and HC Investments, Inc. are subject to certain
limitations with respect to the Company's voting securities as more fully
described in the Company's Proxy Statement on page 21, beginning with the 

                                     - 18 -



fourth paragraph under the heading "Certain Transactions," which is
incorporated herein by reference.

A total of 2,783,838 shares of Common Stock held by the Company's directors and
executive officers, some of whom may be affiliates of the Company, have been
excluded from the computation of market value of the Company's Common Stock on
the cover page of this Report.  This total represents that portion of the shares
reported as beneficially owned by officers and directors of the Company in the
table entitled "Security Ownership of Management" located on page 3 of the Proxy
Statement, which are issued and outstanding.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The material appearing under the headings entitled "Certain Transactions" and
"Company Transactions" on pages 21 and 22 of the Proxy Statement and the
biographical material located on pages 7, 9 and 10 of the Proxy Statement
pertaining to Messrs. Roland Schulz, Hugo Uyterhoeven and Albrecht Woeste is
incorporated herein by reference.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

I(1). The following financial statements of the Company, included in the Annual
      Report, are incorporated in Item 8 hereof.

           (i)      Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
                    December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, Annual Report page 31.

           (ii)     Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1995, 1994 and
                    1993, Annual Report page 32.

           (iii)    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended
                    December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, Annual Report page 33.

           (iv)     Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the years
                    ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, Annual Report page
                    34.

           (v)      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Annual Report
                    pages 35 through 43.

           (vi)     Report of Independent Accountants, Annual Report page 45.

                                     - 19 -



I(2). The following financial statement schedule to the Company's financial
      statements listed in Item 14 I(1) for the years ended December 31, 1995,
      1994 and 1993 located on page 30 hereof, and the Report of Independent
      Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule at page 29 hereof are filed
      as part of this Report.

           (i)      Schedule VIII -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the
                    years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

           All other schedules, for which provision is made in the applicable
           regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, are not
           required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and
           therefore have been omitted.  All significant majority-owned
           subsidiaries are included in the filed consolidated financial
           statements.

I(3). The following financial statements of the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
      located on pages 31 to 54 hereof, are filed as part of this Report.

           (i)      Report of Independent Accountants.

           (ii)     Combined Statements of Income for the years ended November
                    30, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

           (iii)    Combined Balance Sheets at November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

           (iv)     Combined Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
                    November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

           (v)      Combined Statements of Equity for the years ended November
                    30, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

           (vi)     Notes to the Combined Financial Statements.

I(4). The following financial statement schedule to the Henkel-Ecolab Joint
      Venture financial statements listed in Item 14 I(3) for the years ended
      November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993 located on page 55 hereof, and the
      Report of Independent Accountants on pages 31 and 32 hereof are filed as
      part of this Report.

           (i)      Schedule I -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
                    for the years ended November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

           All other schedules, for which provision is made in the applicable
           regulations of the Securities and Exchange

                                     - 20 -



           Commission, are not required under the related instructions or are
           inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.  All significant
           entities of the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture are included in the
           filed combined financial statements.

II.   The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Report.  The
      Company will, upon request and payment of a fee not exceeding the rate at
      which copies are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission,
      furnish copies of any of the following exhibits to stockholders.

           (3)A.    (i)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation - Incorporated
                          by reference to Exhibit (3)A of the Company's Form
                          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                          1992.

                    (ii)  Amended Certificate of Designation, Preferences and
                          Rights, Including Increase in Number of Shares, of
                          the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of
                          the Company.

              B.    By-Laws, as amended through December 18, 1995.

           (4)A.    Common Stock - see Exhibits (3)A and (3)B.

              B.    Form of Common Stock Certificate.

              C.    Rights Agreement dated as of February 24, 1996 -
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4) of the Company's
                    Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 24, 1996.

              D.    Note Agreement dated as of October 1, 1991 relating to
                    $100,000,000 9.68% Senior Notes Due October 1, 2001 between
                    the Company and the insurance companies named therein -
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)F of the Company's
                    Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                    1991.

              E.    Multicurrency Credit Agreement dated as of September 29,
                    1993, as Amended and Restated as of January 1, 1995, among
                    the Company, the financial institutions party thereto,
                    Citibank, N.A., as Agent, Citibank International Plc, as
                    Euro-Agent and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York as
                    Co-Agent - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)E of

                                     - 21 -




                    the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                    December 31, 1994.

              F.    Copies of other constituent instruments defining the rights
                    of holders of long-term debt of the Company and its
                    subsidiaries are not filed herewith, pursuant to Section
                    (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K, because the
                    aggregate amount of securities authorized under each of such
                    instruments is less than 10% of the total assets of the
                    Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The
                    Company hereby agrees that it will, upon request by the
                    Securities and Exchange Commission, furnish to the
                    Commission a copy of each such instrument.

           (9)      Amended and Restated Stockholder's Agreement - See Exhibit
                    (10)S(iv) hereof.

           (10)A.   Ecolab Inc. 1977 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended through
                    May  10, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)A
                    of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                    December 31, 1990.

               B.   Ecolab Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan - Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit (10)B of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                    Report for the year ended December 31, 1992.

               C.   1988 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan as amended 
                    through February 23, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit (10)D of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                    the year ended December 31, 1990.

               D.   1995 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan - Incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit (10)D of the Company's Form 10-K
                    Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1994.

               E.   Non-Employee Director Stock-For-Retainer Plan - Incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit (10)E of the Company's Form 10-K
                    Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1991.

               F.   Form of Director Indemnification Agreement dated August 11, 
                    1989.  Substantially identical agreements are in effect as
                    to each director of the Company - Incorporated by

                                     - 22 -



                    reference to Exhibit (19)A of the Company's Form 10-Q for
                    the quarter ended September 30, 1989.

               G.   (i)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
                          (1984) - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                          (10)F(i) of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                          the year ended December 31, 1990.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Deferred
                          Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (1984)
                          effective December 13, 1991 - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit (10)G(ii) of the Company's Form
                          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                          1991.

               H.   (i)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
                          - 1986 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)F
                          of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
                          fiscal year ended June 30, 1987.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Deferred
                          Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - 1986,
                          effective December 13, 1991 - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit (10)H(ii) of the Company's Form
                          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                          1991.

               I.   Ecolab Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan -
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)I of the Company's
                    Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                    1991.

               J.   Ecolab Executive Death Benefits Plan, as amended and
                    restated effective March 1, 1994 - Incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit (10)J of the Company's 10-K Annual Report for the
                    year ended December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P
                    hereof.

               K.   Ecolab Executive Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended and
                    restated effective January 1, 1994 - Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit (10)K of the Company's 10-K Annual
                    Report for the

                                     - 23 -



                    year ended December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P
                    hereof.

               L.   Ecolab Executive Financial Counseling Plan - Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit (10)K of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                    Report for the year ended December 31, 1992. 

               M.   (i)   Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as
                          amended and restated effective July 1, 1994 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)M(i) of the
                          Company's 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                          December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P hereof.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Supplemental
                          Executive Retirement Plan effective as of July 1,
                          1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)M(ii)
                          of the Company's 10-K Annual Report for the year
                          ended December 31, 1994.

                    (iii) Second Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab
                          Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan effective as
                          of July 1, 1994.

               N.   (i)   Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan (formerly:  Ecolab
                          Executive Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan),
                          as amended and restated effective September 1, 1994 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)N of the
                          Company's 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                          December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P hereof.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror
                          Savings Plan effective as of January 1, 1995.

               O.   (i)   Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan effective July 1, 1994 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)O(i) of the
                          Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                          ended December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit 10(P)
                          hereof.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror
                          Pension Plan effective as of July 1, 1994 -
                          Incorporated by

                                     - 24 -



                          reference to Exhibit (10)O(ii) of the Company's
                          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                          December 31, 1994.

                    (iii) Second Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror
                          Pension Plan effective as of July 1, 1994.

               P.   The Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for Non-Qualified
                    Benefit Plans (Exhibit 10(P)) is incorporated by reference
                    in, and is a part of, each of the referenced Plan documents
                    - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)P of the
                    Company's 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                    1994.

               Q.   Ecolab Management Performance Incentive Plan - Incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit (10)N of the Company's Form 10-K
                    Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1993.

               R.   (i)   Severance Agreement dated March 19, 1990, between
                          Pierson M.  Grieve and the Company - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit (10)M of the Company's Form 10-K
                          Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1989.

                    (ii)  Amendment, dated as of February 26, 1994, to
                          Severance Agreement dated March 19, 1994, between
                          Pierson M. Grieve and the Company - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit (10) of the Company's Form 10-Q
                          for the quarter ended September 30, 1994.

                    (iii) Description of Pierson M. Grieve's retirement benefit
                          - Incorporated by reference to written description of
                          Consulting Agreement contained on pages 19 and 20 of
                          the Proxy Statement.

               S.   (i)   Amended and Restated Umbrella Agreement between
                          Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated June 26, 1991 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13 of HC
                          Investments, Inc.'s and Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4
                          to Schedule 13D dated July 16, 1991.

                    (ii)  Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement between
                          Henkel KGaA and

                                     - 25 -



                          Ecolab Inc. dated June 26, 1991 - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit 14 of HC Investments, Inc.'s and
                          Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4 to Schedule 13D dated
                          July 16, 1991.

                    (iii) Amended and Restated ROW Purchase Agreement between
                          Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated June 26, 1991 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (7) of the
                          Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 11,
                          1991.

                    (iv)  Amended and Restated Stockholder's Agreement between
                          Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated June 26, 1991 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 15 of HC
                          Investments, Inc.'s and Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4
                          to Schedule 13D dated July 16, 1991.

               T.   Agreement and Plan of Merger among Ecolab Inc., EKH, Inc. I,
                    EKH, Inc. II, EKH, Inc. III, Kay Chemical Company, Kay
                    Chemical International, Inc. and Kay Europe, Inc. dated
                    November 2, 1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (2)
                    of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December
                    7, 1994.

           (11)     Computation of Primary and Fully Diluted Earnings Per Share.

           (13)     Those portions of the Company's Annual Report to
                    Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1995 which are
                    incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV hereof.

           (21)     List of Subsidiaries as of March 19, 1996.

           (23)A.   Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. to Incorporation by
                    Reference at page 29 hereof is filed as a part hereof.

               B.   Consent of KPMG Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft
                    Aktiengesellschaft.

           (24)     Powers of Attorney.

           (27)     Financial Data Schedule.

                                     - 26 -

                  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

Included in the preceding list of exhibits are the following management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements:



III. Reports on Form 8-K:

     The Company filed no Current Reports on Form 8-K for the quarter ended
     December 31, 1995.  Subsequent to the quarter, the Company filed one
     Current Report on Form 8-K, dated February 24, 1996 reporting the extension
     of the benefits afforded by the Company's former shareholder rights plan by
     adoption of a new rights plan.

                                     - 27 -



                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Ecolab Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 27th day of March, 1996.

                          ECOLAB INC.
                          (Registrant)



                          By /s/ Allan L. Schuman                
                             ------------------------------------
                             Allan L. Schuman, President
                             and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Ecolab Inc. and in
the capacities indicated, on the 27th day of March, 1996.



/s/ Allan L. Schuman           President and Chief Executive
- -----------------------------  Officer (Principal Executive  
Allan L. Schuman               Officer and Director)


/s/ Michael E. Shannon         Chairman of the Board, Chief
- -----------------------------  Financial and Administrative Officer
Michael E. Shannon             (Principal Financial Officer
                               and Director)


/s/ Arthur E. Henningsen, Jr.  Senior Vice President and Controller
- -----------------------------  (Principal Accounting Officer)
Arthur E. Henningsen, Jr.      


/s/ Kenneth A. Iverson         Directors
- -----------------------------  
Kenneth A. Iverson
as attorney-in-fact for
Ruth S. Block, Russell G. Cleary,
Pierson M. Grieve, James J. Howard,
Jerry W. Levin, Reuben F. Richards,
Richard L. Schall, Roland Schulz,
Philip L. Smith, Hugo Uyterhoeven,
and Albrecht Woeste

                                     - 28 -



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
of Ecolab Inc.

     Our report on the consolidated financial statements of Ecolab Inc. has been
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from the Annual Report to
Shareholders of Ecolab Inc. for the year ended December 31, 1995, on page 45
therein.  In connection with our audits of such financial statements, we have
also audited the related financial statement schedule listed in the index on
page 31 of this Form 10-K.

     In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.


                               /s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
                               COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

Saint Paul, Minnesota
February 26, 1996



CONSENT TO INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE

     We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
on Form S-8 of Ecolab Inc. (Registration Nos. 2-60010; 2-74944; 33-1664; 33-
41828; 2-90702; 33-18202; 33-55986; 33-56101; 33-26241; 33-34000; 33-56151;
33-39228; 33-56125; 33-55984; 33-60266; 33-65364; and 33-59431) and the
Registration Statement on Form S-3 of Ecolab Inc. (Registration No. 33-57197) of
our reports dated February 26, 1996 on our audits of the consolidated financial
statements and the related financial statement schedule of Ecolab Inc. as of
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, and for the years ended December 31, 1995,
1994 and 1993, which reports are included or incorporated by reference in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We also consent to the references to our firm under
the caption "Interests of Named Experts and Counsel" in certain Registration
Statements on Form S-8 of Ecolab Inc. (Registration Nos. 33-56101; 33-56151; 33-
56125; and 33-59431) and under the caption "Experts" in the Registration
Statement on Form S-3 of Ecolab Inc. (Registration No. 33-57197).

                               /s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
                               COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

Saint Paul, Minnesota
March 27, 1996

                                     - 29 -
 


                SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                   ECOLAB INC.
                                 (In Thousands)



 (A)  Reflects foreign currency translation adjustments and the effect of
      acquisitions. The year ended December 31, 1993, includes a deduction of
      $184 related to the sale of the Canadian G.H. Wood janitorial
      distribution business.

 (B)  Uncollectible accounts charged off, net of recovery of accounts
      previously written off.


                                     - 30 - 



              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



The Board of Directors
Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture


We have audited the combined financial statements of Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
as listed in the accompanying index. In connection with our audit of the
combined financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement
schedule as listed in the accompanying index. These combined financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Joint
Venture's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
combined financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with German generally accepted auditing
standards which in all material respects are similar to auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

                                     - 31 -




                                      - 2 -

In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Henkel-Ecolab
Joint Venture as of November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the periods beginning December 1, 1994, 1993
and 1992, and ended November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic combined financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.




Dusseldorf, Germany, January 19, 1996


KPMG Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft
Aktiengesellschaft                                    [SEAL]
Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft


[SIGNATURE]                  [SIGNATURE]
Dr. Kuhr                     Haas
Wirtschaftsprufer            Wirtschaftsprufer


                                     - 32 -
 


Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture


INDEX TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 1995,
NOVEMBER 30, 1994 AND NOVEMBER 30, 1993 
_____________________________________________________________________________

Report of Independent Accountants
Combined Statements of Income
Combined Balance Sheets
Combined Statements of Cash Flows
Combined Statements of Equity
Notes to the Combined Financial Statements
Financial Statement Schedule : Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves

                                     - 33 -
 



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE

COMBINED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  



See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


                                     - 34 - 


Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture


COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS





See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


                                     - 35 -

 


HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE   


COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


                                     - 36 -

 


HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE

COMBINED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

(Thousands)




See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements 

                                     - 37 -


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

On July 1, 1991, Henkel KGaA (Henkel) and Ecolab, Inc. (Ecolab) formed a 
joint venture of their respective European institutional and industrial 
hygiene businesses.

Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement dated 
June 26, 1991 (Joint Venture Agreement), Henkel and Ecolab have joint control 
over the activities of the Joint Venture. The Joint Venture Agreement also 
provides that both partners will share an equal economic interest in the 
profits or losses of the Joint Venture.

The financial statements are presented on a combined basis as each Joint 
Venture entity is owned beneficially by identical shareholders or their 
wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany or affiliated company 
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in combination. The Joint 
Venture's fiscal year end has been designated as November 30.

The financial statements are presented on the basis of generally accepted 
accounting principles in the United States.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

The accounts of all foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are generally 
measured using the local currency as the functional currency, except for one 
country, where due to hyperinflation the functional currency since 1994 has 
been changed to DEM. For those operations, assets and liabilities are 
translated into German Marks at period-end exchange rates. Income statement 
accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during 
the period. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from such translation are 
excluded from net earnings and accumulated in a separate component of 
combined equity. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are 
included in the related income statement category.

The Joint Venture enters into foreign currency forward contracts and options 
to hedge specific foreign currency exposures. Gains and losses on these 
contracts are deferred and recognized as part of the specific transaction 
hedged or included in other expenses, principally interest expense, net. The 
cash flows from such contracts are classified in the same category as the 
transaction hedged in the Combined Statement of Cash Flows.


                                     - 38 -



CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with a maturity of three 
months or less when purchased. Interest income for the period totalled TDM 
3,494 in 1995, TDM 3,877 in 1994 and TDM 4,976 in 1993.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The method of 
determining cost varies between the First-in First-out method, and the 
average cost method.

INVESTMENT IN AFFILIATED COMPANY

Investment in the common stock of one affiliated company is accounted for by 
the equity method. The excess of cost of this affiliate over the Company's 
share of its net assets at the acquisition date is being amortized on a 
straight-line basis over 10 years.

The investment in an affiliated company consists of 33 percent of the common 
stock of Comac SpA, Verona. The unamortized portion of the excess of cost 
over the Joint Venture's share of net assets of Comac amounts to TDM 4,696 at 
November 30, 1995, TDM 5,444 at November 30, 1994 and TDM 6,192 at November 
30, 1993. The market value of the investment cannot be determined.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment are stated at original cost. Merchandise 
equipment consists primarily of various systems for dispensing cleaning and 
sanitizing products. Depreciation and amortization are charged to operations 
using the straight-line and declining balance methods over the following 
estimated useful lives:

Building and improvements                   8 to 40 years
Machinery and equipment                     3 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment           3 to 16 years

Leasehold improvements are amortized over a period which is the lesser of the 
useful life of the asset or the remaining term of the associated lease. 
Betterments, renewals and extraordinary repairs that extend the life of the 
asset are capitalized; other repairs and maintenance are expensed. The cost 
and accumulated depreciation applicable to the assets retired are removed 
from the accounts and any gain or loss credited or charged to income.


                                     - 39 -



INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets primarily consist of amounts by which cost of acquisitions 
exceed the values assigned to net tangible assets. These assets are amortized 
over their estimated lives, periods from 3 to 15 years. Total amortization of 
all intangible assets amounted to TDM 7,469, TDM 6,407 in 1994 and TDM 4,283 
in 1993.


                                     - 40 -



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE

2. BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION




                                     - 41 -


3.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Joint Venture has entered into a variety of contractual arrangements, 
including those discussed in the following paragraphs for the supply of 
products, the performance of general and administrative services and the 
transfer of technology.

Certain Joint Venture entities purchase institutional and industrial hygiene 
products (primarily finished goods inventory) from Henkel and its 
subsidiaries under a variety of supply agreements. The terms of these 
agreements require these entities to purchase specified quantities as defined 
by an annual supply plan submitted to the related manufacturing facility. 
Since 1995 products are purchased at agreed upon prices between the parties 
involved, prior to that on the basis of costs incurred. Purchases totalled 
TDM 239,819 in 1995, TDM 259,882 in 1994 and TDM 278,693 in 1993.

Henkel also provides certain Joint Venture entities with elective services 
which include, but are not limited to General Administration, Payroll 
Administration, Accounting, Research and Development. The cost of services 
are charged by Henkel on a monthly basis and may not reflect the costs which 
the Joint Venture would incur if it were necessary to procure such services 
from outside sources or if such services were performed internally by the 
Joint Venture. Fees paid by the Joint Venture in consideration for these 
services amounted to TDM 20,365 in 1995, TDM 20,326 in 1994 and TDM 23,353 in 
1993.

Royalty payments are shared equally by both parent companies based upon a 
technology transfer agreement which provides for the payment of royalties as 
a percentage of third party sales. Royalty expense related to this technology 
transfer agreement amounted to TDM 28,180 in 1995, TDM 31,874 in 1994 and TDM 
36,460 in 1993.

The Joint Venture has entered into agreements with Henkel under which the 
Joint Venture can both borrow from and lend to Henkel both on an over-draft 
basis and through short term loans of more than 3 months. There is currently 
no maximum level of borrowing specified under this agreement. The interest 
rate basis for both arrangements is the London Interbank Offering Rate 
(interest rate for German marks overdrafts 5.25 % per November 30, 1995 and 
4.25 % for 3 month short term German Marks loans per November 30, 1995); on 
overdrafts, approximately between 0.4 - 1.5 percentage point is paid to 
compensate Henkel for administration costs.


                                     - 42 -




At November 30, 1995 the Joint Venture had borrowed TDM 48,437, from Henkel 
Group Companies, TDM 63,810 in 1994 and TDM 75,910 in 1993. The loans 
received from Henkel Group Companies had totalled TDM 15,778 in 1995, TDM 
38,140 in 1994 and TDM 12,297 in 1993. The fair values of intercompany loans 
receivable and payable approximate book value.

Interest expense to related companies totalled TDM 6,235 in the year ended 
November 30, 1995, TDM 6,304 in 1994 and TDM 9,819 in 1993. Interest income 
from related companies amounted to TDM 3,251 for the year ended November 30, 
1995, TDM 1,989 in 1994 and TDM 1,503 in 1993.


                                     - 43 -



4.  INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes totalled TDM 31,637, compared to November 30, 
1994 TDM 36,287 and November 30, 1993 TDM 35,966. The net deferred taxes 
included in the provision for income taxes for 1995 were TDM 624 credit, for 
1994 TDM 1,993 credit and for 1993 TDM 2,770 credit.

Effective December 1, 1992, the Joint Venture adopted the provisions of 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards of Nov. 109, "Accounting for 
Income Taxes" (FAS 109). The cumulative effect of this change in accounting 
principle as of December 1, 1992 amounted to TDM 9,771. Prior years' 
financial statements were not restated.

The components of the Joint Venture's overall net deferred tax asset at 
November 30, 1995, at November 30, 1994 and at November 30, 1993 are as 
follows:

Deferred tax assets:                   November      November     November 
                                       30, 1995      30, 1994     30, 1993
                                       --------      --------     --------
                                       TDM           TDM          TDM

Goodwill amortization                      642         2,213        6,226
Tax loss carryforwards                   7,894         5,614        5,774
Accruals, not permitted for
tax purposes                             3,355         2,921        2,148
Inventory valuation                      1,847         1,345        1,084
Pension provision, not deductible        4,926         4,746        3,784
Intangible assets (other than
goodwill) amortization                   1,535         2,024          693
Fixed assets                             5,203         4,853            0
Other                                    1,516         3,275        2,912
                                        ---------------------------------
Total gross deferred tax assets         26,918        26,991       22,591
Valuation allowance                     (7,665)       (8,023)      (6,369)
                                        ---------------------------------
Total deferred tax assets               19,521        18,968       16,222
                                        ---------------------------------

Deferred tax liabilities:

Depreciation on tangible assets         (3,555)       (3,547)      (2,578)
Other                                   (1,573)       (1,920)      (2,136)
                                        ---------------------------------
Total deferred tax liabilities          (5,128)       (5,467)      (4,714)
                                        ---------------------------------

Net deferred tax asset                  14,125        13,501       11,508
                                        ---------------------------------
                                        ---------------------------------


At November 30, 1995, the Joint Venture had net foreign operating loss 
carryforwards for tax purposes of approximately TDM 25,163 compared to 
November 30, 1994 to TDM 17,847 and compared to November 30, 1993 to TDM 
16,577. A significant portion of these losses have an indefinite carryforward 
period; the remaining losses have expiration dates up to five years.


                                   - 44 -



As of November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993 the tax benefits of the loss 
carryforwards have been reserved 100% in Great Britain, 20% in Italy, 60% in 
Switzerland in 1995 and 80% in 1994 and 1993. As at December 1, 1992 all loss 
carryforwards had been reserved 100%. The changes in the valuation allowance 
were made due to turnarounds in the profitability of the Joint Venture 
companies in the respective countries.

In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers 
whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred 
tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax 
assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the 
periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Management 
considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected 
future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. 
Based upon the level of historical taxable income and projections for future 
taxable income over the periods which the deferred tax assets are deductible, 
management believes it is more likely than not the Joint Venture will realize 
the benefits of these deductible differences, net of the existing valuation 
allowances at November 30, 1995.

A reconciliation of the statutory German trade tax and federal corporate 
income tax rate to the effective income tax rate was:

                                         1995         1994         1993
                                         ----         ----         ----
Statutory German rate                    44.4%        44.4%        45.3%
Other European rates                     (7.5)        (6.6)        (7.4)
Losses and deferred items
without offsetting tax benefits           5.8          3.6          5.0
Provision for taxes arising
from tax examination                      5.9          0.0          0.0
Different tax base in Germany             0.5          3.8          3.8
Deferred taxes refundable to 
parent                                    3.8          3.1          9.2
Change of valuation allowance            (1.5)         0.0         (6.4)
Other                                    (1.9)        (2.3)         4.8
                                         ----         ----         ----
Effective income tax rate                49.5%        46.0%        54.3%
                                         ----         ----         ----
                                         ----         ----         ----



                                    - 45 -



The deferred taxes refundable to parent reflect the Joint Venture Agreement 
in which the partners also agreed that all tax benefits realized after the 
formation of the Joint Venture should be refunded to the respective parents 
if the benefits relate to temporary differences that originated in periods 
prior to the formation of the Joint Venture. The amount refundable in 1993 
covers the period from July 1, 1991 to November 30, 1993.

In 1995, the tax payments were TDM 24,503, in 1994 TDM 21,368 and in 1993 TDM 
29,846.

                                    - 46 -


5.  RETIREMENT PLANS

The Joint Venture's German entities have noncontributory defined benefit 
pension plans to provide pension benefits to substantially all eligible 
employees. Employees of countries outside of Germany participate in various 
local plans, principally contributory plans.

Benefits for the German plans are based upon salary and years of service. The 
funding of these pension plans is not a common practice as funding provides 
no economic (tax) benefit.

A summary of the components of net periodic pension cost for the German plans 
for the twelve months ended November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993 follows (TDM):

                                         1995        1994         1993

Service cost-employee benefits           3,646       3,174        2,890
Interest cost                            5,567       4,952        4,258
Net amortization and deferral              546         546          546
                                         -----       -----        -----
Total Pension expense                    9,759       8,672        7,694
                                         -----       -----        -----
                                         -----       -----        -----

The status of the employee pension benefit plans for Germany at November 30, 
1995, 1994 and 1993 is summarized below (TDM):


Actuarial present value of:              1995        1994         1993

Vested benefit obligation                60,927      47,578       38,321

Non-vested accumulated
benefit obligation                        3,433       2,799        2,112
                                         ------      ------       ------
Accumulated benefit obligation           64,360      50,377       40,433
                                         ------      ------       ------
                                         ------      ------       ------

Projected benefit obligation             80,074      66,354       56,975
Unrecognized net transition
obligation                                7,700       8,246        8,790
Unrecognized net (gain)/loss              6,172         124         (942)
                                         ------      ------       ------
Unfunded accrued pension cost            66,202      57,984       49,127
                                         ------      ------       ------
                                         ------      ------       ------

The following assumptions have been used to develop net periodic pension 
expense and the actuarial present value of projected benefit obligations:

                                         1995        1994         1993

Assumed discount rate                    7.0 %       7.5 %        7.5 %

Rate of increase in future               4.0 %       4.5 %        5.0 %
Compensation levels


                                    - 47 -



The Joint Venture also sponsors other defined benefit plans, defined 
contribution plans and participation government-sponsored programs in certain 
European countries. Expenses under these plans amounted to approximately TDM 
7,767 for the twelve months ended November 30, 1995, TDM 13,433 in 1994 and 
TDM 12,863 in 1993.

Other Joint Venture-specific savings plans, post-retirement and 
post-employment benefit plans requiring contribution by the Joint Venture are 
not material.


                                    - 48 -




6.  TOTAL INDEBTEDNESS

Short Term Debt

As of November 30, 1995 short term debt totalled TDM 17,695 compared to 
November 30, 1994 TDM 19,256 and compared to November 30, 1993 TDM 45,505, 
generally in overdraft facilities with interest rates based on local money 
market rates. As of November 30, 1995 the three main balances are in French 
Franc in the equivalent amount of TDM 7,599 at an interest rate of 6.5 %-7 % 
p.a., in Italian Lira in the equivalent amount of TDM 3,291 at an interest 
rate of 11 % p.a. and in Spanish Peseta in the equivalent amount of TDM 
2,458 at an interest rate of 7.15 % p.a..

Long Term Debt

                                         1995        1994         1993
                                         ----        ----         ----
                                         TDM         TDM          TDM

Notes                                    6,617       7,248        7,886
Less current maturities                    712         727          796
                                         -----       -----        -----
Total                                    5,905       6,521        7,090
                                         -----       -----        -----
                                         -----       -----        -----


The total long term debt amount is borrowed in Danish Krona at an average 
interest rate of 10.18 % p.a.. As of November 30, 1995, the aggregate annual 
maturities of long term debt for the next five years were:

1996 - TDM 712                      1997 - TDM   645
1998 - TDM 645                      1999 - TDM   645
2000 - TDM 645                after 2000 - TDM 3,325

Interest expense related to all debt was TDM 4,329 in 1995, compared to 
November 30, 1994 TDM 4,584 and compared to November 30, 1993 TDM 6,700. No 
significant differences existed between interest expense and interest paid.

The fair value of short and long term debt approximates the book value.


                                    - 49-


7.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

The Joint Venture operates internationally, giving rise to exposure to market 
risks from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Derivative 
financial instruments are utilized by the Joint Venture to reduce certain of 
these risks, as explained in this note. The Joint Venture does not hold or 
issue financial instruments for trading purposes. The Joint Venture is 
exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by 
counterparties to financial instruments, but it does not expect any 
counterparties to fail to meet their obligations given their high credit 
ratings.

a) Notional Amounts and Credit Exposures of Derivatives

The notional amounts of derivatives summarized in section b) do not represent 
amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of the 
exposure of the Joint Venture through its use of derivatives. The amounts 
exchanged are calculated on the basis of the notional amounts and the other 
terms of the derivatives, which relate to exchange rates.

b) Foreign Exchange Risk Management

The Joint Venture enters into various types of foreign exchange contracts in 
managing its foreign exchange risk, as indicated in the following table (TDM):

                                November 30, 1995         November 30, 1994
                                -----------------         -----------------
                                Notional    Credit        Notional    Credit
                                Amount    Exposure        Amount    Exposure
                                ------    --------        ------    --------

Forwards                        36,105       0            30,753       203
Options purchased                    0       0             3,142       131
                                ------       -            ------       ---
                                36,105       0            33,895       334
                                ------       -            ------       ---
                                ------       -            ------       ---

The primary purpose of foreign exchange contracts is to hedge various 
intercompany loans. The Joint Venture also enters to a limited extent into 
forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain existing and 
anticipated future net foreign exchange exposures. The anticipated future 
foreign exchange exposure of the Joint Venture is the total of the net 
balances of all known and planned incoming and outgoing payments of the Joint 
Venture's companies in foreign currencies during a 12 months time horizon. 
Gains and losses arising on hedged loan transactions are accrued to income 
over the period of the hedge.


                                    - 50 -



The table below summarizes by major currency the contractual amounts of the 
Joint Venture's forward exchange and option contracts in German Marks. 
Foreign currency amounts are translated at rates current at the reporting 
date. 

The "buy" amounts represent the German Marks equivalent of commitments to 
purchase foreign currencies, and the "sell" amounts represent the German 
Marks equivalent of commitments to sell foreign currencies (TDM):

                                          1995                1994
                                    -----------------    ----------------
                                    Buy        Sell      Buy       Sell

Italian Lira/US-Dollar               9,759      9,936    11,044    10,739
Belgium Franc/Dutch Guilders         4,866      4,865         0         0
Pound Sterling                       4,840      4,792     7,319     7,364
US-Dollar                            4,120      4,224     3,142     3,000
Finmark/Swedish Krona                2,641      2,531         0         0
Danish Krona                         2,574      2,582     8,170     7,997
Swiss Franc                          2,449      2,462         0         0
Greek Drachme/French Franc           2,024      2,060     3,148     3,248
Irish Pound                          1,434      1,441         0         0
Portuguese Escudo                      864        874       677       685
Finmark                                331        336         0         0
Norwegian Krona                        203        204         0         0
Swedish Krona                            0          0       395       367
                                    -----------------    ----------------
                                    36,105     36,307    33,895    33,400
                                    ------     ------    ------    ------
                                    ------     ------    ------    ------

c) Fair Value of Off Balance Sheet Financial Instruments

The fair value of off balance sheet financial instruments is not significant.

                                     - 51 -



8.  RESEARCH EXPENDITURES

Research expenditures which relate to the development of new products and 
processes, including significant improvements and refinements to existing 
products, were DM 33.0 million in 1995, DM 34.1 million in 1994 and DM 28.3 
million in 1993.


                                    - 52 -



9.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Joint Venture has a number of operating lease agreements primarily 
involving motor vehicles, computer and other office equipment. The following 
is a schedule by year of the future minimum lease payments required under the 
operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancellable lease terms in 
excess of one year as of November 30, 1995 (TDM):

                    1996                   14,943
                    1997                    9,119
                    1998                    5,839
                    1999                    4,513
                    2000                    4,069
                    thereafter              5,362
                                           ------
                    Total                  43,845
                                           ------
                                           ------

Rent expense for the twelve month period ended November 30, 1995, was 
approximately TDM 17,790, compared to November 30, 1994 approximately TDM 
16,372 and compared to November 30, 1993 approximately TDM 13,415.

The Joint Venture is subject to lawsuits and claims arising out of the 
conduct of its business, including those relating to commercial transactions 
and environmental safety. As an integral part of the Joint Venture 
agreement, Henkel and Ecolab have provided certain representations and 
warranties against future expenditures arising from operations prior to July 
1, 1991.

A subsidiary of the Joint Venture is named in an environmental legal action 
related to the conduct of its business prior to the formation of the Joint 
Venture on July 1, 1991. Based on the facts currently known to the Joint 
Venture, and after consultation with Legal Counsel, management believes that 
the Joint Venture is indemnified against any potential liability arising from 
such action under the terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated 
Umbrella Agreement dated June 26, 1991, by and between Henkel and Ecolab.

Therefore, the Joint Venture does not expect material adverse effects on its 
financial position, results of operations or liquidity from the outcome of 
these losses and claims.


                                    - 53 -



The Joint Venture's operations and customers are located throughout in Europe 
and operate in the industrial and institutional hygiene business. No single 
customer accounted for a significant amount of the Joint Venture's sales in 
1995, 1994 and 1993, and there were no significant accounts receivable from a 
single customer at November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993. The Joint Venture 
establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon factors surrounding 
the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other 
information.


                                    - 54 -





HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE

Schedule I - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
          (Thousands)



(a) Provision for doubtful accounts
    (charged to expenses)
     
(b) Items determined to be uncollectible,
    less recovery of amounts previously written off.


                                     - 55 -



EXHIBIT INDEX

The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Report.



                                     - 65 -
 

