
10-K405
10-K405






                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    1.   Portions of Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
         ended December 31, 1996 (hereinafter referred to as "Annual Report")
         are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV.

    2.   Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
         to be held May 9, 1997 and to be filed within 120 days after the
         Registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 (hereinafter referred
         to as "Proxy Statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III. 


                                        PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

ITEM 1(A) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Except where the context otherwise requires, the terms "Company" and "Ecolab,"
as used herein, include Ecolab Inc. and its subsidiaries.  Ecolab Inc. was
incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924.  The Company's fiscal year is
the calendar year ending December 31.

The Company and Henkel KGaA of Dusseldorf, Germany, each have a 50% economic
interest in a joint venture which operates institutional and industrial cleaning
and sanitizing businesses in Europe, and which is referred to hereafter as the
"Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture" or "Joint Venture."  Henkel KGaA, by virtue of a
tie-breaking vote on certain operational matters, may control the day-to-day
operations of the Joint Venture.  Strategic decisions concerning the Joint
Venture require the agreement of Henkel and the Company.  The Company accounts
for its interest in the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture under the equity method of
accounting and therefore does not consolidate the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
balance sheet accounts, revenues and expenses.  Financial statements of the
Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture as listed under Item 14, I(3) of Part IV hereof are
included as a part of this Report.  Except where the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
is specifically referred to, the description of business in Part I does not
include the business of the Joint Venture.

ITEM 1(B) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The Company's operations are all conducted in one industry segment.

ITEM 1(C) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

The Company is engaged in the development and marketing of premium products and
services for the hospitality, institutional and industrial markets.  The Company
provides cleaning, sanitizing, pest elimination and maintenance products,
systems and services primarily to hotels and restaurants, foodservice,
healthcare and educational facilities, quickservice (fast-food units),
commercial and institutional laundries, light industry, dairy plants and farms,
and food and beverage processors.

A strong commitment to service is the distinguishing characteristic of the
Company.  Products, systems and services are primarily marketed in domestic and
international markets by Company-trained sales and service personnel who also
advise and assist customers in the proper and efficient use of the products and
systems.  Distributors are utilized in several markets, as described


                                        - 2 -



in the business unit descriptions located under the heading "Business
Divisions."

The Company manufactures most of its products and related equipment in
Company-owned manufacturing facilities.  Some are also produced for the Company
by third party contract manufacturers.  Other products and equipment,
particularly those used in the Company's Pest Elimination business, are
purchased from third party suppliers.  Additional information on the Company's
manufacturing facilities is located under Item 2 below under the heading
"Properties."

As described below, not all of the businesses conducted in the United States and
Canada by the Company are conducted in all other international locations, and
the extent and nature of such international businesses, as well as the
competitive environment, varies by location.  European markets, as described
under Item 1(a) above under the heading "General Development of Business," are
served through the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture, although the Kay business does
have sales in Europe.

In the United States and Canada, the Company operates through seven divisions: 
Institutional, Kay, Food and Beverage, Pest Elimination, Textile Care,
Professional Products (formerly Janitorial Division) and Water Care Services. 
Institutional and Food and Beverage businesses are operated in virtually all
locations outside of the United States and Canada.  As described below, the
businesses of the remaining divisions are not conducted in all areas outside of
the United States and Canada, but these businesses are expanding into a number
of international locations.
  
The Company conducts business in approximately 30 countries outside of the
United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries, or, in the case of Venezuela,
China, and Indonesia, through majority- owned joint ventures with local
partners.  In  other countries, selected products are sold by distributors or
agents, although those sales are not significant in terms of the Company's
overall sales.  For the year ended December 31, 1996, international sales
comprised approximately 23% of the Company's total consolidated net sales.  For
purposes of public financial reporting, international operations include Canada,
but on an operational basis, the businesses in Canada are, in general, operated
together with United States businesses as a part of North American operations.

BUSINESS DIVISIONS

The following descriptions of the Company's divisions include a discussion,
where applicable, of similar businesses currently conducted outside of the
United States.  The Company pursues a "Circle the Customer - Circle the Globe"
strategy by developing relationships and partnerships with customers who require
the services of more than one division.  Therefore, a single customer may
utilize the services of several of the Company's divisions.

INSTITUTIONAL:  The Institutional Division is the Company's largest division and
sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware,
flatware, food service utensils and kitchen equipment ("warewashing"), for
on-premise laundries (typically used by customers having smaller machines and
laundry needs) and for general housekeeping functions, as well as dishwasher
racks and related kitchen sundries to the food-service, lodging, educational and
healthcare industries.  The Institutional Division also markets various chemical
dispensing device systems, which are made  available to customers, to apply the
Company's cleaners and sanitizers.  Substantially similar businesses are
conducted in all international locations although somewhat less extensive
product lines are often offered internationally.  Also, through its Ecotemp
offering, the Institutional Division markets, primarily to smaller and mid-size
customer units, a program comprised of energy-efficient


                                        - 3 -



dishwashing machines, detergents and rinse additives, including full machine
maintenance.

The Company believes it is the leading supplier of chemical warewashing products
to institutions in the United States and Canada and is one of the leading
suppliers worldwide except for Europe where the business is conducted by the
Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture.  

The Institutional Division sells its products and services primarily through
Company-employed field sales and service personnel.  The Company also utilizes
independent food-service distributors to market and sell its products to smaller
accounts or accounts which purchase through food distributors.  This
distribution system encompasses most of the Institutional Division's product
line and the Company provides the same service to accounts served by food
distributors as to direct customers.  

KAY:  The Kay Division supplies chemical cleaning and sanitizing products
primarily to the quick-service restaurant and grocery industries.  Kay's
products include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners,
degreasers, sanitizers, polishes and hand care products and assorted cleaning
tools.  Products are sold under the "Kay" brand or the customer's private label.
In addition, Kay supports its product sales with employee training programs and
technical support designed to meet the special needs of its customers which have
a relatively high employee turnover.  Kay employs a direct field sales force
which primarily calls upon national and regional quick service restaurant chains
and franchisees, although the sales are made to distributors who supply the
chain or franchisee's restaurants.

Kay sales are primarily in the United States but international sales have grown
as United States-based customers have expanded into international markets. 
Because a significant portion of Kay's international sales are to non-United
States units of United States-based quickservice restaurant chains, a
substantial portion of Kay's international sales are made either to domestic or
internationally located distributors who service these chains.

The Company believes that its Kay Division is the leading supplier of chemical
cleaning and sanitizing products to the quickservice restaurant industry in the
United States as well as in certain international markets.  While Kay's customer
base has been growing, Kay's business is largely dependent upon a limited number
of major national and international quickservice restaurant chains and
franchisees.

FOOD AND BEVERAGE:  The Food and Beverage Division provides detergents,
cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants, animal health and water treatment products, as
well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the
application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy, poultry and
swine farms, breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other
food processors as well as to pharmaceutical and cosmetic plants.  The Food and
Beverage Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP ("clean-in-place")
process control systems and facility cleaning systems to its customer base. 
Farm products (which include bovine teat products) are sold through dealers and
distributors, while plant products are sold primarily by the Company's field
sales personnel.  The Company believes that it is one of the leading suppliers
of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm and beverage
processor industries in the United States.  Food and Beverage businesses are
operated in most international locations.

PEST ELIMINATION:  The Pest Elimination Division provides services for the
elimination and prevention of pests to restaurants, food and beverage
processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels and other
institutional and commercial customers.  These services are sold and


                                        - 4 -



performed by Company-employed sales and service personnel.  The Company believes
it is the largest provider of premium pest elimination services to institutions
in the United States.  The Pest Elimination business currently is operated
primarily in the United States but also operates in Puerto Rico, Hong Kong and
New Zealand, as well as parts of Canada and Mexico.  

TEXTILE CARE:  The Textile Care Division provides chemical laundry products and
proprietary dispensing systems, as well as related services, to large
institutional and commercial laundries and to certain smaller laundry
operations.  Typically these customers process a minimum of 1,000,000 pounds of
linen each year and include free-standing laundry plants used by institutions
such as hotels, restaurants and healthcare facilities as well as industrial,
textile rental and shirt laundries.  Products and services include laundry
cleaning and specialty products and related dispensing equipment, which are
marketed primarily through a Company-employed sales force and, to a lesser
extent, through distributors.  Textile Care offerings complement the
Institutional Division's offerings to small-to-medium size on-premise laundry
facilities.  Textile Care products are sold primarily in the United States and
Canada, but similar product lines are sold in a number of other international
locations.

PROFESSIONAL PRODUCTS:  The Professional Products Division provides a full line
of janitorial and infection control offerings that include odor counteractants,
disinfectants, floor care and carpet care systems, hand care products and
general cleaners and medical instrument sterilants which are sold to the medical
and janitorial markets in the United States and Canada.  In 1996, the  Company
acquired Huntington Laboratories, Inc., a supplier of infection control products
and gym floor finishes which it integrated into its janitorial business.  The
Division, which was previously called the Janitorial Division, was renamed
following the Huntington acquisition to the Professional Products Division to
better reflect its expanding business.

The Company believes it is among the largest suppliers of infection-control and
general cleaners to the United States healthcare industry as well as one of the
market leaders in the overall North American janitorial market.  Products are
sold in the United States and Canada through a Company-employed sales force as
well as a network of independent distributors in both janitorial and medical
markets who sell products and services to the institutional, healthcare and
industrial marketplaces.  A private-label program also manufactures non-
proprietary janitorial-related products for resale by major distributor
organizations in the United States and Canada.  In addition, the Division,
through its JaniSource operation, markets brand name products for sale through
mass commercial distribution networks.  Infection-control and janitorial
products are also sold on a limited basis in other international markets.

WATER CARE SERVICES:  The Water Care Services Division, which in 1997 will be in
its third year as a separate Company division, expands the Company's "Circle the
Customer - Circle the Globe" strategy by adding an offering which is critical to
companies in the Company's customer base--water treatment programs.  The Water
Care Services Division provides water and wastewater treatment products,
services and systems for institutional, commercial and light industrial
customers.  Operations are presently concentrated in North America, where the
Company has acquired four existing water care businesses since late 1994.  Water
Care Services works closely with the Company's Institutional, Textile Care and
Food and Beverage Divisions to offer customized water care strategies to the
hospitality, healthcare markets and to light industry, primarily to treat water
used in heating and cooling systems and manufacturing processes and to treat
waste water.  In selected United States markets, the Division also provides pool
and spa treatment programs for commercial and hospitality customers.  In
addition to North America operations, certain water


                                        - 5 -



treatment businesses are operated at selected international locations, primarily
Brazil, South Africa and Southeast Asia.

COMPETITION

The Company's business units have two significant classes of competitors. 
First, each business unit competes with a small number of large companies
selling directly or through distributors on a national or international scale. 
Some of these large competitors have substantially greater assets and financial
resources than the Company.  Second, all of the Company's business units have
numerous smaller regional or local competitors which focus on more limited
geographies, product lines, and/or end-user segments.

The Company's objective is to achieve a significant presence in each of its
business markets.  In general, competition is based on service, product
performance and price.  The Company believes it competes principally by
providing superior value.  Value is provided by state-of-the-art,
environmentally-compatible cleaning, sanitation and maintenance products and
systems coupled with high service standards and dedication to customer
satisfaction after the initial sale.  This is made possible, in part, by the
significant on-going investment in technology development and by the Company's
standard practice of assisting customers in lowering operating costs and
complying with environmental and sanitation regulations.  In addition, the
Company emphasizes its ability to uniformly provide a variety of related premium
cleaning and sanitation services to its customers and to provide that level of
service to multiple locations of chain customer organizations worldwide.  This
approach is succinctly stated in the Company's "Circle the Customer - Circle the
Globe" strategy.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing products for the Company are
inorganic chemicals, including phosphates, silicates, alkalies, salts and
petrochemical-based materials, including surfactants and solvents.  These
materials are generally purchased on an annual contract basis from a diverse
group of chemical manufacturers.  Pesticides used by the Pest Elimination
Division are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order
from the producers or their distributors.  The Company also purchases packaging
materials for its manufactured products and components for its specialized
cleaning equipment and systems.  Most raw materials, or substitutes for those
materials, used by the Company, with the exception of a few specialized
chemicals which the Company manufactures, are available from several suppliers.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Deliveries to customers are made from the Company's manufacturing plants and a
network of distribution centers and public warehouses.  The Company uses common
carriers, its own delivery vehicles and distributors.  Additional information on
the Company's plant and distribution facilities is located under Item 2 below
under the heading "Properties."

The Company owns a number of patents and trademarks.  Management does not
believe that the Company's overall business is materially dependent on any
individual patent or trademark.

The Company believes that its business is not materially dependent upon a single
customer although, as described above in this Item 1(c) under the description of
the Kay business, Kay is largely


                                        - 6 -



dependent upon a limited number of national and international quickservice
chains and franchisees.  No material part of the Company's business is subject
to renegotiation or termination at the election of a governmental unit.  The
Company sells two classes of products which each constitute 10 percent or more
of its sales.  Worldwide sales of warewashing products in 1996, 1995 and 1994
approximated 31, 33 and 35 percent, respectively, of the Company's consolidated
net sales.  In addition, the Company, through its Institutional and Textile Care
businesses, sells laundry products and services to a broad range of laundry
customers as described in more detail under the heading "Business Divisions"
beginning on page 3 hereof.  Total laundry sales in 1996, 1995 and 1994
approximated 14, 15 and 15 percent respectively, of the Company's consolidated
net sales.

The Company's business has little seasonality.  

The Company has invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the future,
in merchandising equipment consisting primarily of systems used by customers to
dispense the Company's cleaning and sanitizing products.  The Company,
otherwise, has no unusual working capital requirements.  The investment in
merchandising equipment is discussed under the heading "Cash Flows" in
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations incorporated into Item 7 hereof.  

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's research and development program consists principally of devising
or testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the
efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, and evaluating
the environmental compatibility of products.  Key disciplines include analytical
and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering and
product dispensing technology.  Substantially all of the Company's principal
products have been developed by its research and development personnel.  Note
12, entitled "Research Expenditures" located on page 43 of the Annual Report, is
incorporated herein by reference.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

The Company's businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and
regulations relating to the protection of the environment.  While the Company
cooperates with governmental authorities and takes commercially practicable
measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental
effects, some risks are inherent in the Company's businesses.  The Company's
management believes these are risks which the Company has in common with other
companies engaged in similar businesses.  Among the risks are costs associated
with managing hazardous substances, waste disposal or plant site clean-up, fines
and penalties if the Company were found in violation of law, as well as
modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of
operations.  Although the Company is not currently aware of any such
circumstances, there can be no assurance that future legislation or enforcement
policies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.  Environmental matters most significant to
the Company are discussed below.

PHOSPHOROUS LEGISLATION:  Various laws and regulations have been enacted by
state, local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of products which
contain phosphorous.  The primary thrust of such laws and regulations is to
regulate the phosphorous content of home laundry detergents, a market not served
by the Company.  However, certain of the Company's products are


                                        - 7 -



affected by such laws and regulations, including some commercial laundry and
warewashing detergents, cleaners and sanitizers.  Three types of legislative
restrictions are common:  (1) labeling of phosphorous content, (2) percentage
limitation on the amount of phosphorous permitted and (3) a ban on the use of
phosphorous in certain products or in products sold for a particular purpose. 
The Company has been able to comply with legislative requirements and, where
necessary, has developed products which, although typically less effective than
the products they replace, contain no phosphorous or lower amounts of
phosphorous to satisfy the legislative limitations or bans.  In limited
geographic areas, the Company has obtained a variance from existing
zero-phosphorous legislation.  Phosphorous legislation has not had a material
negative effect on the Company's operations to date.

PESTICIDE LEGISLATION:  Various federal and state environmental laws and
regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of pesticides.  The Company
manufactures and sells certain disinfecting and sanitizing products which kill
microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on environmental surfaces.  Such
products constitute "pesticides" or "antimicrobial pesticides" under the current
definitions of the Federal Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act ("FIFRA"),
as amended by the Food Quality Protection Act of 1996, the principal federal
statute governing the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides. 
These products must be registered with the United States Environmental
Protection Agency ("EPA").  Registration entails the necessity to meet certain
efficacy, toxicity and labeling requirements and to pay initial and on-going
registration fees.  In addition, each state in which these products are sold
requires registration and payment of a fee.  In general, the states impose no
substantive requirements different from those required by FIFRA.  However,
California does have its own regulatory scheme and certain other states have
regulatory schemes under consideration.  In addition, California imposes a tax
on total pesticide sales in that state.  While the costs of complying with rules
as to pesticides has not had a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition or the results of its operations to date, the costs and
delays in receiving necessary approvals for these products has increased in
recent years.  The Company believes that the nature of these costs and
regulatory delays are similar to those encountered by other companies in similar
businesses.  Total fees paid to the EPA and the states to obtain or maintain
pesticide registrations, and for the California tax, were approximately
$1,269,000 in 1996.  Such costs will increase somewhat in 1997, but not in
amounts which are expected to significantly affect the Company's results of
operations, consolidated financial condition or liquidity.  The new Food Quality
Protection Act is expected to accelerate the pace at which the Company obtains
future product registrations.

In addition, the Company's Pest Elimination Division applies restricted-use
pesticides which it purchases from third parties.  That Division must comply
with certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the
licensing of employees who apply such pesticides.  Such regulations are enforced
primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with federal
regulations.  The Company has not experienced material difficulties in complying
with these requirements.  

OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION:  The Company's manufacturing plants are subject
to federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating
to discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the
transportation, handling and disposal of such substances.  The primary federal
statutes that apply to the Company's activities are the Clean Air Act, the Clean
Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA").  The Company
makes capital investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and
regulations, to ensure employee safety and to carry out its announced
environmental stewardship principles.  To date such expenditures have not had a
significant adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company or


                                        - 8 -



its results of operations.  The Company's capital expenditures for environmental
control projects incurred for 1996 were approximately $1,090,000 and
approximately the same level of expenditure has been budgeted for 1997.  The
Company is also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of
1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of toxic
substances into the air, land and water.

Along with numerous other potentially responsible parties ("PRPs"), the Company
is currently involved with waste disposal site clean-up activities imposed by
the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
("CERCLA") or state equivalents at 11 waste disposal sites which received
nominal amounts of waste materials alleged to have been generated by the Company
or its subsidiaries.  In general, under CERCLA, the Company and each other PRP
which actually contributes hazardous substances to a superfund site are jointly
and severally liable for the costs associated with cleaning up the site. 
Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a plan for
site remediation.

In addition to the 11 sites noted above, the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency ("Agency"), in 1996, identified the Company, along with two other
corporations, as PRPs in connection with groundwater contamination near the
Company's South Beloit, Illinois manufacturing facility.  The Agency is seeking
a potable water supply for approximately 200 homes at the Evergreen Manor
residential subdivision, an investigation of the source and extent of the
contamination, remedial cleanup and reimbursement of the state's costs.  The
Company has denied liability and has requested that the Agency withdraw its
identification of the Company as a PRP. 

Based on an analysis of the Company's experience with such environmental
proceedings, the Company's estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited
on the 12 sites referred to in the two preceding paragraphs, and the Company's
estimate of the contribution to be made by other PRPs which the Company believes
have the financial ability to pay their shares, the Company has accrued its best
estimate of the Company's future costs relating to such known sites.

Also, the Company is involved in certain continuing groundwater clean-up
activities as required by New Jersey environmental authorities at a site used by
the Company.  The Company has worked with appropriate authorities to resolve the
issues involved and has accrued its best estimate of future costs relating to
the site.

A legal action commenced in August, 1989 in the District Court in Zwolle,
Netherlands, by the Netherlands government against a former subsidiary of the
Company remains pending.  Netherlands authorities are seeking monetary damages
to cover the cost of investigation and planned clean-up of soil and groundwater
contamination, allegedly resulting from the discharge of wastewater and
chemicals during a period ended in 1981, when the subsidiary operated a plant on
the site.  Damages claimed are approximately US$10,000,000.  The former 
subsidiary, now owned by the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture, has denied liability
and believes it complied with applicable Netherlands law.  Even if the
Netherlands government should prevail as to liability, it is believed the
reasonable costs of investigation and clean-up are less than that claimed by the
government.  The Company has agreed to indemnify the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
as to any liability associated with this matter.  Accordingly, an accrual has
been recorded, reflecting management's best estimate of future costs.  

During 1996, the Company's net expenditures for contamination remediation were
approximately $200,000.  The accrual at the end of 1996 for future remediation
expenditures was approximately $9,800,000.  The Company reviews its exposure for
contamination remediation costs periodically and its accruals are adjusted as
considered appropriate.  In establishing accruals, potential insurance


                                        - 9 -



reimbursements are not included.  While the final resolution of these issues
could result in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an
impact on the Company's consolidated financial results in a future reporting
period; the Company believes the ultimate resolution of these matters will not
have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or
liquidity or, on an on-going basis, its results of operations.

In addition, the Company has retained responsibility for certain sites where the
Company's former ChemLawn business is a PRP.  Currently there are eight such
locations and, at each, ChemLawn is a de minimis party.  Anticipated costs
currently accrued for these matters were included in the Company's loss from its
discontinued ChemLawn operations in 1991.  The accrual remaining reflects
management's best estimate of future costs.

NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES

The Company currently has approximately 9,500 employees worldwide.

ITEM 1(D) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT
SALES

The financial information appearing under the heading "Geographic Segments" in
Note 14, located on page 43 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by
reference.  Transfers between geographic areas are not significant.

A description of the business done outside of the United States is included in
Item 1(c), above.  International businesses are subject to the usual risks of
foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment
laws, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions
abroad.  International operations constitute the fastest growing segment of the
Company's business.  Profitability of international operations is lower than
profitability of businesses in the United States because of lower international
operating income margins due to the difference in scale of international
operations where operating locations are smaller in size and due to the
additional costs of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The persons listed in the following table are the current executive officers of
the Company.  Officers are elected annually.  There is no family relationship
among any of the directors or executive officers, and none of such persons has
been involved during the past five years in any legal proceedings described in
applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.

                                                      POSITIONS HELD
NAME               AGE  OFFICE                        SINCE JAN. 1, 1992
- ----               ---  ------                        ------------------

A. L. Schuman      62   President and Chief           March 1995 - Present
                        Executive Officer

                        President and Chief           Aug. 1992 - Feb. 1995
                        Operating Officer

                        Executive Vice President;     Jan. 1992 - July 1992
                        President-Ecolab
                        Services Group


                                        - 10 -



                                                      POSITIONS HELD
NAME               AGE  OFFICE                        SINCE JAN. 1, 1992
- ----               ---  ------                        ------------------
M. E. Shannon      60   Chairman of the Board, Chief  Jan. 1996 - Present
                        Financial and Administrative
                        Officer   

                        Vice Chairman, Chief          Aug. 1992 - Dec. 1995
                        Financial and
                        Administrative Officer

                        Executive Vice President      June 1992 - July 1992
                        and Chief Financial
                        Officer

                        Executive Vice President      Jan. 1992 - May 1992
                        and Chief Financial
                        Officer; President-
                        Residential Services
                        Group

G. K. Carlson      53   Senior Vice President -       June 1996 - Present
                        Corporate Planning 
                        and Development

                        Senior Vice President-        Jan. 1994 - May 1996
                        International

                        Senior Vice President         Jan. 1992 - Dec. 1993
                        and General Manager-
                        Institutional North
                        America

P. D'Almada        49   Senior Vice President -       Mar. 1996 - Present
                        Global Accounts

                        Vice President -              May 1994 - Feb. 1996 
                        Institutional Corporate
                        Accounts

                        Vice President -              Oct. 1993 - Apr. 1994
                        Institutional National
                        Accounts and Distributors
                        Sales

                        International Vice            Aug. 1992 - Sep. 1993
                        President - Central America
                        and the Caribbean


                                        - 11 -



                                                      POSITIONS HELD
NAME               AGE  OFFICE                        SINCE JAN. 1, 1992
- ----               ---  ------                        ------------------
                        Institutional Vice            Jan. 1992 - July 1992
                        President - World Accounts

S. L. Fritze       42   Vice President and            Mar. 1995 - Present
                        Treasurer
                        Institutional Vice            Jan. 1992 - Feb. 1995
                        President, Planning
                        and Control    

A. E. Henningsen,  50   Senior Vice President         Mar. 1996 - Present
 Jr.                    and Controller

                        Vice President and            Aug. 1992 - Feb. 1996
                        Controller

                        Vice President-Finance,       Jan. 1992 - July 1992
                        Ecolab Services Group

R. L. Marcantonio  47   Senior Vice President-        Mar. 1997 - Present
                        Industrial

J. L. McCarty      59   Senior Vice President-        Jan. 1994 - Present
                        Institutional North America

                        Vice President and General    Jan. 1992 - Dec. 1993
                        Manager - Pest Elimination

M. Nisita          56   Senior Vice President-        Jan. 1994 - Present
                        Global Operations

                        Vice President-Operations     Aug. 1992 - Dec. 1993

                        Vice President-               Jan. 1992 - July 1992
                        Manufacturing

W. R. Rosengren    62   Senior Vice President-Law     Aug. 1992 - Present
                        and General Counsel

                        Senior Vice President-        Jan. 1992 - July 1992
                        Law, General Counsel
                        and Secretary

J. P. Spooner      50   Senior Vice President-        June 1996 - Present
                        International

                        Senior Vice President-        June 1994 - May 1996
                        Industrial


                                        - 12 -



                                                      POSITIONS HELD
NAME               AGE  OFFICE                        SINCE JAN. 1, 1992
- ----               ---  ------                        ------------------
F. W. Tuominen,    54   Senior Vice President         Aug. 1992 - Present
Ph.D.                   and Chief Technical and
                        Environmental Officer

                        Senior Vice President         Jan. 1992 - July 1992
                        and Chief Technical
                        Officer

Mr. Spooner joined the Company as Senior Vice President-Industrial in June 1994.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Spooner was employed by PepsiCo, Inc. for 15
years, holding various positions in operations and business development,
including most recently, President of the North Division of Frito-Lay, Inc.

Mr. Marcantonio joined the Company as Senior Vice President-Industrial in March
1997.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Marcantonio was employed by Keebler
Company for over 15 years, holding various positions in sales, marketing and 
management, including most recently, Senior Vice President - Cookies and
Crackers.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company's manufacturing facilities produce chemical products or equipment
for all the Company's businesses except the Pest Elimination Division which
purchases products and substantially all its equipment from outside suppliers. 
The Company's chemical production process consists primarily of blending and
packaging powders and liquids and casting solids.

The Company's United States plant facilities devoted primarily to the production
of chemical products are located in Joliet, Illinois; Avenel, New Jersey;
McDonough, Georgia; Garland, Texas; San Jose, California; Hebron, Ohio; and City
of Industry, California.  Smaller plant facilities in North Kansas City,
Missouri; Charlotte, North Carolina; Huntington, Indiana; and Grand Forks, North
Dakota produce certain chemical products primarily for the Company's Textile
Care, Water Care Services, Food and Beverage and Professional Products
divisions.  These facilities except for those located in Kansas City and
Charlotte are Company-owned.  The Company's Kay business also owns and operates
manufacturing facilities in Greensboro, North Carolina and Dallas, Texas.

Additional chemical manufacturing facilities are located in Dorado, Puerto Rico;
Santa Cruz, Brazil; Hamilton, New Zealand; Noda and Shika, Japan; Sydney and
Melbourne, Australia; Seoul, South Korea; Mexico City, Mexico; Bangkok,
Thailand; Toronto, Canada; and Johannesburg, South Africa.  The buildings and
land for the facilities located in Canada, Australia and Puerto Rico are leased.
A chemical plant, which is co-owned with a Chinese joint venture partner, is
located near Shanghai, People's Republic of China, and a leased chemical plant
is located in Chile.  Smaller chemical plant facilities are owned in certain
other locations including Costa Rica; Brisbane, Australia; Singapore; Jakarta,
Indonesia and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.

The Company's plant in South Beloit, Illinois produces chemical product
dispensers and injectors and other mechanical equipment.  A leased plant, which
manufactures dishwasher racks and related sundries, is located in Elk Grove
Village, Illinois.  Dishwasher racks are also produced at the Shika, Japan
plant.  Dishwashing machines which are used in the Company's Ecotemp operations
are manufactured in an owned facility in Barbourville, Kentucky.  The
Barbourville facility also


                                        - 13 -



produces a portion of its machines for sale to third party dishwashing machine
distributors.  A leased facility in Memphis, Tennessee serves as a dishwashing
machine refurbishing center.

The Company believes its manufacturing facilities are in good condition and are
adequate to meet existing production needs.

Most of the Company's manufacturing plants also serve as distribution centers. 
In addition, around the world, the Company operates distribution centers, all of
which are leased, and utilizes various public warehouses to facilitate the
distribution of its products and services.  In the United States, the Company's
sales associates are located in approximately 125 leased offices. Additional
sales offices are located internationally.

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in downtown St. Paul, Minnesota.
The 19-story building was constructed to the Company's specifications and is
leased through 1998.  Thereafter, it is subject to multiple renewals at the
Company's option.  The Company also owns a building in downtown St. Paul
adjacent to its headquarters.  Recently, the Company unveiled plans for an
expansion of its downtown St. Paul headquarters.  The plan includes a long-term
lease of another adjacent building and extensive renovations.  The expansion is
expected, over time, to bring several hundred additional jobs to the Company's
headquarters and will include a state-of-the-art corporate employee training
center.  The Company also owns a research and development facility and a
chemical pilot plant which are located in suburbs of St. Paul as well as a
computer center located in St. Paul, several blocks from the Company's
Headquarters.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Proceedings arising under laws relating to protection of the environment are
discussed at Item 1(c) above, under the heading "Environmental Considerations."

A legal action commenced by ten distributors of the Company's Airkem 
janitorial products ("Plaintiffs") in 1995 in Minnesota State Court, Hennepin 
County, remains pending.  Plaintiffs allege a variety of claims, including 
breach of contract, fraud, breach of Minnesota's antitrust statute and 
various other State statutes.  The claims center around the process under 
which these distributors converted from exclusive to non-exclusive, as well 
as challenges to the Company's national account program.  Plaintiff's damages 
claim has varied, ranging from $22,000,000 to $37,000,000.  The Company has 
denied liability and believes the allegations are substantially without 
merit.  Trial is scheduled for May, 1997.  Plaintiffs' claims are not covered 
by the Company's insurance.

The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are defendants in various other
lawsuits and claims arising out of the normal course of business.  Accruals have
been established reflecting management's best estimate of future costs relating
to such matters and, in the opinion of management, the ultimate resolution of
this litigation will not have a material effect on the Company's results of
operations, consolidated financial condition or liquidity.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the
solicitation of proxies, or otherwise, during the fourth quarter.


                                        - 14 -



                                       PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM 5(a) MARKET INFORMATION

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the
Pacific Stock Exchange under the symbol "ECL".  The Common Stock is also traded
on an unlisted basis on certain other United States exchanges.  The high and low
sales prices of the Company's Common Stock on the consolidated transaction
reporting system during 1996 and 1995 were as follows:


                      1996                1995        
                 ---------------      --------------

    Quarter        High      Low       High      Low
    -------        ----      ---       ----      ---

    First        $32-5/8   $29-1/8   $24-7/8    $20

    Second       $33-7/8   $29-1/2   $25-1/2    $22-1/2

    Third        $33-3/4   $29-1/2   $28-1/8    $24-1/4 

    Fourth       $39-1/2   $33-1/2   $31-3/4    $27-1/4  

    The closing stock price on March 18, 1997 was $38.00.

ITEM 5(b) HOLDERS

On March 18, 1997, the Company had 4,967 holders of Common Stock of record.

ITEM 5(c) DIVIDENDS

Quarterly cash dividends customarily are paid on the 15th of January, April,
July and October.  Dividends of $0.125 per share were declared in February, May
and August, 1995.  Dividends of $0.14 per share were declared in December, 1995
and February, May and August, 1996.  A dividend of $0.16 per share was declared
in December 1996.

ITEM 5(d) RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES

None.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The comparative data for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, 1994, 1993 and
1992 inclusive, which are set forth under the heading entitled "Summary
Operating and Financial Data" and which are located on pages 46 and 47 of the
Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference.


                                        - 15 -



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

The material appearing under the heading entitled "Financial Discussion,"
located on pages 24  through 30 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The financial statements and material which are an integral part of the
financial statements listed under Item 14 I(1) below and located on pages 31
through 45 of the Annual Report, are filed as a part of this Report and are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


                                       PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The biographical material located on pages 6 through 10 and the paragraph
relating to understandings concerning the election of directors between Henkel
KGaA and the Company located on page 5 of the Proxy Statement appearing under
the heading entitled "Election of Directors," is incorporated herein by
reference.  Information regarding executive officers is presented under the
heading "Executive Officers of the Company" in Part I of this Report on pages 
10 through 13.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The material appearing under the heading entitled "Executive Compensation,"
located on pages 11 through 19 of the Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by
reference.  However, pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation
S-K, Item 402(a)(9), the material appearing under the headings entitled "Report
of the Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation" and "Comparison of Five
Year Cumulative Total Return," found, respectively, on pages 11 through 13 and
on page 17 of the Proxy Statement is not incorporated herein.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The material appearing under the headings entitled "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" located on
pages 2 and 3 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  The
holdings of Henkel KGaA and HC Investments, Inc. are subject to certain
limitations with respect to the Company's voting securities as more fully
described in the Company's Proxy Statement on page 20, beginning with the fifth
paragraph under the heading "Certain Transactions," which is incorporated herein
by reference.

A total of 627,967 shares of Common Stock held by the Company's directors and
executive officers, some of whom may be affiliates of the Company, have been
excluded from the computation of market value of the Company's Common Stock on
the cover page of this Report.  This total represents that portion of the shares
reported as beneficially owned by officers and directors of the Company in the
table entitled "Security Ownership of Management" located on page 3 of the Proxy


                                        - 16 -



Statement, which are issued and outstanding.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The material appearing under the headings entitled "Certain Transactions" and
"Company Transactions" on pages 20 and 21 of the Proxy Statement and the
biographical material located on pages 8 and 10 of the Proxy Statement
pertaining to Messrs. Roland Schulz, Hugo Uyterhoeven and Albrecht Woeste is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                       PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

I(1).    The following financial statements of the Company, included in the
         Annual Report, are incorporated in Item 8 hereof.

              (i)       Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
                        December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, Annual Report page
                        31.

              (ii)      Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1996, 1995
                        and 1994, Annual Report page 32.

              (iii)     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years
                        ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, Annual Report
                        page 33.

              (iv)      Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the
                        years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, Annual
                        Report page 34.

              (v)       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Annual
                        Report pages 35 through 44.

              (vi)      Report of Independent Accountants, Annual Report page
                        45.

I(2).    The following financial statement schedule to the Company's financial
         statements listed in Item 14 I(1) for the years ended December 31,
         1996, 1995 and 1994 located on page 26 hereof, and the Report of
         Independent Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule at page 25
         hereof are filed as part of this Report.

              (i)       Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for
                        the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994.

              All other schedules, for which provision is made in the
              applicable regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
              are not required under the related instructions or are
              inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.  All significant
              majority-owned subsidiaries are included in the filed
              consolidated financial statements.

I(3).    The following financial statements of the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
         located on pages  27 to 48 hereof, are filed as part of this Report.


                                        - 17 -



              (i)       Report of Independent Accountants.

              (ii)      Combined Statements of Income for the years ended
                        November 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994.

              (iii)     Combined Balance Sheets at November 30, 1996, 1995 and
                        1994.

              (iv)      Combined Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
                        November 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994.

              (v)       Combined Statements of Equity for the years ended
                        November 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994.

              (vi)      Notes to the Combined Financial Statements.

I(4).    The following financial statement schedule to the Henkel-Ecolab Joint
         Venture financial statements listed in Item 14 I(3) for the years
         ended November 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994 located on page 49 hereof, and
         the Report of Independent Accountants on page 27 hereof are filed as
         part of this Report.

              (i)       Schedule -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
                        Reserves for the years ended November 30, 1996, 1995
                        and 1994.

              All other schedules, for which provision is made in the
              applicable regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
              are not required under the related instructions or are
              inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.  All significant
              entities of the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture are included in the
              filed combined financial statements.

II.      The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Report.  The
         Company will, upon request and payment of a fee not exceeding the rate
         at which copies are available from the Securities and Exchange
         Commission, furnish copies of any of the following exhibits to
         stockholders.  The Financial Data Schedule (Exhibit 27) is filed as an
         Exhibit to this Report, but pursuant to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of Item
         601 of Regulation S-K, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of
         section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933 or section18 of the
         Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

              (3)A.     Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

                 B.     By-Laws, as amended through December 16, 1996 -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3) of the
                        Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 16,
                        1996.

              (4)A.     Common Stock - see Exhibits (3)A and (3)B.

                 B.     Form of Common Stock Certificate - Incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit (4)B of the Company's Form 10-K
                        Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.


                                        - 18 -



                 C.     Rights Agreement dated as of February 24, 1996 -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4) of the
                        Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 24,
                        1996.

                 D.     Note Agreement dated as of October 1, 1991 relating to
                        $100,000,000 9.68% Senior Notes Due October 1, 2001
                        between the Company and the insurance companies named
                        therein - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)F of
                        the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year
                        ended December 31, 1991.

                 E.     Multicurrency Credit Agreement dated as of September
                        29, 1993, as Amended and Restated as of January 1, 1995
                        and as of September 30, 1996, among the Company, the
                        financial institutions party thereto, Citibank, N.A.,
                        as Agent, Citibank International Plc, as Euro-Agent and
                        Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York as Co-Agent -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4) of the
                        Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                        1996.

                 F.     Indenture dated as of November 1, 1996 as amended and
                        supplemented, between the Company and the First
                        National Bank of Chicago as Trustee - Incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company's Amendment No.
                        1 to Form S-3 filed November 15, 1996.

                 G.     Form of Underwriting Agreement - Incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 1 of the Company's Amendment No. 1
                        to Form S-3 filed November 15, 1996.

         Copies of other constituent instruments defining the rights of holders
         of long-term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries are not filed
         herewith, pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation
         S-K, because the aggregate amount of securities authorized under each
         of such instruments is less than 10% of the total assets of the
         Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The Company
         hereby agrees that it will, upon request by the Securities and
         Exchange Commission, furnish to the Commission a copy of each such
         instrument.

              (9)       Amended and Restated Stockholder's Agreement - See
                        Exhibit (10)S(iv) hereof.

              (10)A.    Ecolab Inc. 1977 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended
                        through May 10, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit (10)A of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report
                        for the year ended December 31, 1990.

                  B.    Ecolab Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan - Incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit (10)B of the Company's Form 10-K
                        Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1992.

                  C.    Ecolab Inc. 1997 Stock Incentive Plan.

                  D.    1988 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan as amended


                                        - 19 -



                        through February 23, 1991 - Incorporated by reference
                        to Exhibit (10)D of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                        Report for the year ended December 31, 1990.

                  E.    1995 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)D of the
                        Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                        December 31, 1994.

                  F.    Ecolab Inc. 1997 Non-Employee Director Deferred
                        Compensation Plan.

                  G.    Non-Employee Director Stock-For-Retainer Plan -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)E of the
                        Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                        December 31, 1991.

                  H.    Form of Director Indemnification Agreement dated August
                        11, 1989.  Substantially identical agreements are in
                        effect as to each director of the Company -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (19)A of the
                        Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
                        1989.

                  I.    (i)       Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
                                  Directors (1984) - Incorporated by reference
                                  to Exhibit (10)F(i) of the Company's Form 
                                  10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                                  December 31, 1990.

                        (ii)      First Declaration of Amendment to Deferred
                                  Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
                                  (1984) effective December 13, 1991 -
                                  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                  (10)G(ii) of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                                  Report for the year ended December 31, 1991.

                  J.    Ecolab Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)I of the
                        Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                        December 31, 1991.

                  K.    Ecolab Executive Death Benefits Plan, as amended and
                        restated effective March 1, 1994 - Incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit (10)J of the Company's 10-K Annual
                        Report for the year ended December 31, 1994.  See also
                        Exhibit (10)Q hereof.

                  L.    Ecolab Executive Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended
                        and restated effective January 1, 1994 - Incorporated
                        by reference to Exhibit (10)K of the Company's 10-K
                        Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1994. 
                        See also Exhibit (10)Q hereof.

                  M.    Ecolab Executive Financial Counseling Plan -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)K of the
                        Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                        December 31, 1992. 




                                        - 20 -



                  N.    (i)       Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement
                                  Plan, as amended and restated effective July
                                  1, 1994 - Incorporated by reference to
                                  Exhibit (10)M(i) of the Company's 10-K Annual
                                  Report for the year ended December 31, 1994. 
                                  See also Exhibit (10)Q hereof.

                        (ii)      First Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab
                                  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
                                  effective as of July 1, 1994 - Incorporated
                                  by reference to Exhibit (10)M(ii) of the
                                  Company's 10-K Annual Report for the year
                                  ended December 31, 1994.

                        (iii)     Second Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab
                                  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
                                  effective as of July 1, 1994 - Incorporated
                                  by reference to Exhibit (10)M(iii) of the
                                  Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
                                  year ended December 31, 1995.

                  O.    (i)       Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan, as amended and
                                  restated effective September 1, 1994 -
                                  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)N of
                                  the Company's 10-K Annual Report for the year
                                  ended December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit
                                  (10)Q hereof.

                        (ii)      First Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab
                                  Mirror Savings Plan effective as of January
                                  1, 1995 - Incorporated by reference to
                                  Exhibit (10)N(ii) of the Company's Form 10-K
                                  Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                                  1995.

                        (iii)     Second Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab
                                  Mirror Savings Plan effective January 1,
                                  1997.

                  P.    (i)       Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan effective July 1,
                                  1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                  (10)O(i) of the Company's Annual Report on
                                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                                  1994.  See also Exhibit (10)Q hereof.

                        (ii)      First Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab
                                  Mirror Pension Plan effective as of July 1,
                                  1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                  (10)O(ii) of the Company's Annual Report on
                                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                                  1994.

                        (iii)     Second Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab
                                  Mirror Pension Plan effective as of July 1,
                                  1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                                  (10)O(iii) of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                                  Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.




                                        - 21 -



                  Q.    The Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for Non-
                        Qualified Benefit Plans - Incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit (10)P of the Company's 10-K Annual Report for
                        the year ended December 31, 1994.

                  R.    Ecolab Management Performance Incentive Plan -
                        Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)N of the
                        Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                        December 31, 1993.

                  S.    (i)       Amended and Restated Umbrella Agreement
                                  between Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated
                                  June 26, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to
                                  Exhibit 13 of HC Investments, Inc.'s and
                                  Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4 to Schedule 13D
                                  dated July 16, 1991.

                        (ii)      Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement
                                  between Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated
                                  June 26, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to
                                  Exhibit 14 of HC Investments, Inc.'s and
                                  Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4 to Schedule 13D
                                  dated July 16, 1991.

                        (iii)     Amended and Restated ROW Purchase Agreement
                                  between Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated
                                  June 26, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to
                                  Exhibit (7) of the Company's Current Report
                                  on Form 8-K dated July 11, 1991.

                        (iv)      Amended and Restated Stockholder's Agreement
                                  between Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated
                                  June 26, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to
                                  Exhibit 15 of HC Investments, Inc.'s and
                                  Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4 to Schedule 13D
                                  dated July 16, 1991.

                  T.    Description of Ecolab Management Incentive Plan.

             (11)  Computation of Primary and Fully Diluted Earnings Per Share.

             (13)  Those portions of the Company's Annual Report to
                   Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1996 which are
                   incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV hereof.

             (21)  List of Subsidiaries as of March 18, 1997.

             (23)A.     Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. to Incorporation by
                        Reference at page 25 hereof is filed as a part hereof.

                 B.     Consent of KPMG Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft
                        Aktiengesellschaft.

             (24)  Powers of Attorney.

             (27)  Financial Data Schedule.


                                        - 22 -



                    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

Included in the preceding list of exhibits are the following management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements:

Exhibit No.   Description
- -----------   -----------

  (10)A.      Ecolab Inc. 1977 Stock Incentive Plan.

  (10)B.      Ecolab Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan.

  (10)C.      Ecolab Inc. 1997 Stock Incentive Plan.

  (10)D.      1988 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.

  (10)E.      1995 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.     

  (10)F.      Ecolab Inc. 1997 Non-Employee Director Deferred Compensation
              Plan.

  (10)G.      Non-Employee Director Stock-For-Retainer Plan.

  (10)I.      Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (1984).

  (10)J.      Ecolab Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan.

  (10)K.      Ecolab Executive Death Benefits Plan.

  (10)L.      Ecolab Executive Long-Term Disability Plan.

  (10)M.      Ecolab Executive Financial Counseling Plan.

  (10)N.      Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.

  (10)O.      Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan.

  (10)P.      Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan.

  (10)Q.      The Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for Non-Qualified Benefit
              Plans.

  (10)R.      Ecolab Management Performance Incentive Plan.

  (10)T.      Ecolab Management Incentive Plan.

III.     Reports on Form 8-K:

         The Company filed one Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 16,
         1996 for the quarter ended December 31, 1996 reporting the adoption of
         an advance notice By-Law.


                                        - 23 -



                                      SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Ecolab Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 27th day of March, 1997.

                                  ECOLAB INC.
                                  (Registrant)



                                  By /s/ Allan L. Schuman                
                                     --------------------------------
                                       Allan L. Schuman, President
                                       and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Ecolab Inc. and in
the capacities indicated, on the 27th day of March, 1997.



/s/ Allan L. Schuman                   President and Chief Executive
- -----------------------------          Officer (Principal Executive  
Allan L. Schuman                       Officer and Director)


/s/ Michael E. Shannon                 Chairman of the Board, Chief
- -----------------------------          Financial and Administrative Officer
Michael E. Shannon                     (Principal Financial Officer
                                       and Director)


/s/ Arthur E. Henningsen, Jr.          Senior Vice President and Controller
- -----------------------------          (Principal Accounting Officer)
Arthur E. Henningsen, Jr.


/s/ Kenneth A. Iverson                 Directors
- -----------------------------
Kenneth A. Iverson
as attorney-in-fact for
Ruth S. Block, Russell G. Cleary,
James J. Howard, Joel W. Johnson,
Jerry W. Levin, Reuben F. Richards,
Richard L. Schall, Roland Schulz,
Philip L. Smith, Hugo Uyterhoeven,
and Albrecht Woeste


                                        - 24 -



                          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                           ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
                                           
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
of Ecolab Inc.

    Our report on the consolidated financial statements of Ecolab Inc. has been
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from page 45 of the 1996 Annual
Report to Shareholders of Ecolab Inc.  In connection with our audits of such
financial statements, we have also audited the related financial statement
schedule included on page 26 of this Form 10-K.

    In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.

                                  /s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
                                  COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

Saint Paul, Minnesota
February 24, 1997



          CONSENT OF COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P. TO INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE

    We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
of Ecolab Inc. on Form S-8 (Registration Nos. 2-60010; 2-74944; 33-1664;
33-41828; 2-90702; 33-18202; 33-55986; 33-56101; 33-26241; 33-34000; 33-56151;
33-39228; 33-56125; 33-55984; 33-60266; 33-65364; 33-59431; 333-18617;
333-18627; and 333-21167) and the Registration Statements of Ecolab Inc. on 
Form S-3 (Registration No. 33-57197 and 333-14771) of our reports dated February
24, 1997 on our audits of the consolidated financial statements and the related
financial statement schedule of Ecolab Inc. as of December 31, 1996, 1995 and
1994, and for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, which reports
are included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
We also consent to the references to our firm under the caption "Interests of
Named Experts and Counsel" or "Incorporation of Documents by Reference" in
certain Registration Statements on Form S-8 of Ecolab Inc. (Registration Nos.
33-56101; 33-56151; 33-56125; 33-59431; 333-18617; 333-18627; and 333-21167) and
under the caption "Experts" in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 of Ecolab
Inc. (Registration Nos. 33-57197 and 333-14771).

                                  /s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
                                  COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.

Saint Paul, Minnesota
March 27, 1997


                                        - 25 -




                   SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                     ECOLAB INC.
                                    (In Thousands)

 


 



(A) Reflects foreign currency translation adjustments and the effect of
    acquisitions.

(B) Uncollectible accounts charged off, net of recovery of accounts previously
    written off.


                                        - 26 -



[KPMG LOGO] Deutsche-Treuhand-Gesellschaft


                          REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

The Board of Directors
Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture

We have audited the combined financial statements of Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
as listed in the accompanying index. In connection with our audit of the
combined financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement
schedule as listed in the accompanying index. These combined financial
statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Joint
Venture's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
combined financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with German generally accepted auditing
standards which in all material respects are similar to auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Henkel-Ecolab
Joint Venture as of November 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the periods beginning December 1, 1995, 1994
and 1993, and ended November 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic combined financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

Dusseldorf, Germany, January 22, 1997

KPMG Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft





Haas                    Momken
Wirtschaftsprufer       Wirtschaftsprufer               [SEAL]


                                        - 27 -



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE


INDEX TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 1996,
NOVEMBER 30, 1995 AND NOVEMBER 30, 1994

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Report of Independent Accountants
Combined Statements of Income
Combined Balance Sheets
Combined Statements of Cash Flows
Combined Statements of Equity
Notes to the Combined Financial Statements
Financial Statement Schedule : Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves


                                        - 28 -



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE


COMBINED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

 


 
See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


                                        - 29 -



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE


COMBINED BALANCE SHEETS

 


 
See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


                                        - 30 -



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE


COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

 


See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


                                        - 31 -



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE

COMBINED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY

(Thousands)

                      Contributed      Retained     Cumulative
                        Capital        Earnings       Foreign         Total
                                                      Currency
                                                     Translation

                     ---------------------------------------------------------

Balance
November 30, 1993      DM    211,704        73,718    (18,295)       267,127

Net Income                                  42,522                    42,522

Dividends Paid                              (1,411)                   (1,411)

Translation                                            (3,080)        (3,080)
Adjustment

                     ---------------------------------------------------------

Balance
November 30, 1994      DM    211,704       114,829    (21,375)       305,158

Net Income                                  32,239                    32,239

Dividends Paid                             (17,063)                  (17,063)

Translation                                            (1,935)        (1,935)
Adjustment

                     ---------------------------------------------------------

Balance
November 30, 1995      DM    211,704       130,005    (23,310)       318,399

Net Income                                  52,108                    52,108

Dividends                                  (45,045)                  (45,045)

Equity Withdrawals           (49,000)                                (49,000)

Translation                                             3,864          3,864
Adjustment

                     ---------------------------------------------------------

Balance
November 30, 1996      DM    162,704       137,068    (19,446)       280,326
- -------------------------    -------       -------    --------       -------
- -------------------------    -------       -------    --------       -------

See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements



                                        - 32 -



1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

On July 1, 1991, Henkel KGaA (Henkel) and Ecolab, Inc. (Ecolab) formed a joint
venture of their respective European institutional and industrial hygiene
businesses.

Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement dated June
26, 1991 (Joint Venture Agreement), Henkel and Ecolab have joint control over
the activities of the Joint Venture. The Joint Venture Agreement also provides
that both partners will share an equal economic interest in the profits or
losses of the Joint Venture.

The financial statements are presented on a combined basis as each Joint Venture
entity is owned beneficially by identical shareholders or their wholly owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany or affiliated company accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in combination. The Joint Venture's fiscal
year end has been designated as November 30.

The financial statements are presented on the basis of generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

The accounts of all foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are generally measured
using the local currency as the functional currency, except for one country,
where due to hyperinflation the functional currency since 1994 has been changed
to DEM. For those operations, assets and liabilities are translated into German
Marks at period-end exchange rates. Income statement accounts are translated at
the average rates of exchange prevailing during the period. Net exchange gains
or losses resulting from such translation are excluded from net earnings and
accumulated in a separate component of combined equity. Gains and losses from
foreign currency transactions are included in the related income statement
category.

The Joint Venture enters into foreign currency forward contracts and options to
hedge specific foreign currency exposures. Gains and losses on these contracts
are deferred and recognized as part of the specific transaction hedged or
included in other expenses, principally interest expense, net. The cash flows
from such contracts are classified in the same category as the transaction
hedged in the Combined Statement of Cash Flows.


                                        - 33 -



CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months
or less when purchased. Interest income for the period totalled TDM 4,479 in
1996, TDM 3,494 in 1995 and TDM 3,877 in 1994.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The method of determining
cost varies between the First-in First-out method, and the average cost method.

INVESTMENT IN AFFILIATED COMPANY

Investment in the common stock of one affiliated company is accounted for by the
equity method. The excess of cost of this affiliate over the Company's share of
its net assets at the acquisition date is being amortized on a straight-line
basis over 10 years.

The investment in this affiliated company consists of 33 percent of the common
stock of Comac SpA, Verona. The unamortized portion of the excess of cost over
the Joint Venture's share of net assets of Comac amounts to TDM 3,948 at
November 30, 1996, TDM 4,696 at November 30, 1995 and TDM 5,444 at November 30,
1994. The market value of the investment cannot be determined.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment are stated at original cost.  Merchandise
equipment consists primarily of various systems for dispensing cleaning and
sanitizing products. Depreciation and amortization are charged to operations
using the straight-line and declining balance methods over the following
estimated useful lives:

Buildings and improvements                  8 to 40 years
Machinery and equipment                     3 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment           3 to 16 years

Leasehold improvements are amortized over a period which is the lesser of the
useful life of the asset or the remaining term of the associated lease.
Betterments, renewals and extraordinary repairs that extend the life of the
asset are capitalized; other repairs and maintenance are expensed. The cost and
accumulated depreciation applicable to the assets retired are removed from the
accounts and any gain or loss credited or charged to income.


                                        - 34 -



INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets primarily consist of amounts by which cost of acquisitions
exceeded the values assigned to net tangible assets. These assets are amortized
over their estimated lives, periods from 3 to 15 years. Total amortization of
all intangible assets amounted to TDM 12,588 in 1996, TDM 7,469 in 1995 and TDM
6,407 in 1994.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, as
well as disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.


                                        - 35 -



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE


2. BALANCE SHEET  INFORMATION

 


 

                                        - 36 -



3. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Joint Venture has entered into a variety of contractual arrangements,
including those discussed in the following paragraphs for the supply of
products, the performance of general and administrative services and the
transfer of technology.

Certain Joint Venture entities purchase institutional and indu-strial hygiene
products (primarily finished goods inventory) from Henkel and its subsidiaries
under a variety of supply agreements. The terms of these agreements require
these entities to purchase specified quantities as defined by an annual supply
plan submitted to the related manufacturing facility. Since 1995 products are
purchased at agreed upon prices between the parties involved, prior to that on
the basis of costs incurred. Purchases totalled TDM 232,581 in 1996, TDM 239,819
in 1995 and TDM 259,882 in 1994.

Henkel also with a declining degree provides certain Joint Venture entities with
elective services which include, but are not limited to General Administration,
Payroll Administration, Accounting, Research and Development. The cost of
services are charged by Henkel on a monthly basis and may not reflect the costs
which the Joint Venture would incur if it were necessary to procure such
services from outside sources or if such services were performed internally by
the Joint Venture. Fees paid by the Joint Venture in consideration for these
services amounted to TDM 14,228 in 1996, TDM 20,365 in 1995 and TDM 20,326 in
1994.

Royalty payments are shared equally by both parent companies based upon a
technology transfer agreement which provides for the payment of royalties as a
percentage of third party sales. Royalty expense related to this technology
transfer agreement amounted to TDM 22,718 in 1996, TDM 28,180 in 1995 and TDM
31,874 in 1994.

The Joint Venture has entered into agreements with Henkel under which the Joint
Venture can both borrow from and lend to Henkel both on an over-draft basis and
through short term loans of more than 3 months. There is currently no maximum
level of borrowing specified under this agreement. The interest rate basis for
both arrangements is the London Interbank Offering Rate (interest rate for
German Marks overdrafts 4.5 % per November 30, 1996 and 4.0 % for 3 month short
term German Marks loans per November 30, 1996); on overdrafts, approximately
between 1.0 - 1.5 percentage point is paid to compensate Henkel for
administration costs.


                                        - 37 -



At November 30, 1996 the Joint Venture had borrowed TDM 7,445, from Henkel Group
Companies, TDM 48,437 in 1995 and TDM 63,810 in 1994. The loans receivable from
Henkel Group Companies had totalled TDM 8,007 in 1996, TDM 15,778 in 1995 and
TDM 38,140 in 1994. The fair values of intercompany loans receivable and payable
approximate book value.

Interest expense to related companies totalled TDM 1,463 in the year ended
November 30, 1996, TDM 6,235 in 1995 and TDM 6,204 in 1994. Interest income from
related companies amounted to TDM 1,180 for the year ended November 30, 1996,
TDM 3,251 in 1995 and TDM 1,989 in 1994.


                                        - 38 -



4. INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes totalled TDM 45,334, compared to November 30,
1995 TDM 31,637 and November 30, 1994 TDM 36,287. The net deferred taxes
included in the provision for income taxes for 1996 were TDM 1,366 debit, for
1995 TDM 624 credit and for 1994 TDM 1,993 credit.

The components of the Joint Venture's overall net deferred tax asset at November
30, 1996, at November 30, 1995 and at November 30, 1994 are as follows:

Deferred tax assets:                   November       November       November
                                       30, 1996       30, 1995       30, 1994
                                       --------       --------       --------
                                       TDM            TDM            TDM

Goodwill amortization                       0            642          2,213
Tax loss carryforwards                  9,576          7,894          5,614
Accruals, not permitted for
tax purposes                            3,612          3,355          2,921
Inventory valuation                     2,530          1,847          1,345
Pension provision, not deductible       7,024          4,926          4,746
Intangible assets (other than
goodwill) amortization                  1,663          1,535          2,024
Fixed assets                            2,692          5,203          4,853
Other                                   1,605          1,516          3,275
                                       ------------------------------------
Total gross deferred tax assets        28,702         26,918         26,991
Valuation allowance                    (10,387)       (7,665)        (8,023)
                                       -------------------------------------
Total deferred tax assets              18,315         19,521         18,968
                                       ------------------------------------

Deferred tax liabilities:

Depreciation on tangible assets        (3,995)        (3,555)        (3,547)
Other                                  (1,561)        (1,573)        (1,920)
                                       -------------------------------------
Total deferred tax liabilities         (5,556)        (5,128)        (5,467)
                                       -------------------------------------

Net deferred tax asset                 12,759         14,125         13,501
                                       ------------------------------------
                                       ------------------------------------


At November 30, 1996, the Joint Venture had net foreign operating loss
carryforwards for tax purposes of approximately TDM 27,535 compared to November
30, 1995 TDM 25,163 and compared to November 30, 1994 TDM 17,847. A significant
portion of these losses have an indefinite carryforward period; the remaining
losses have expiration dates up to five years.


                                        - 39 -



In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is
dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in
which those temporary differences become deductible. Management considers the
scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income,
and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon the level of
historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the
periods which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is
more likely than not the Joint Venture will realize the benefits of these
deductible differences, net of the existing valuation allowances at November 30,
1996.

A reconciliation of the statutory German trade tax and federal corporate income
tax rate to the effective income tax rate was:


                                       1996           1995           1994
                                       ----           ----           ----

Statutory German rate                  44.4%          44.4%          44.4%
Other European rates                   (8.0)          (7.5)          (6.6)
Losses and deferred items
without offsetting tax benefits         1.9            5.8            3.6
Provision for taxes arising
from tax examination                    4.9            5.9            0.0
Different tax base in Germany           1.4            0.5            3.8
Deferred taxes refundable to
parent                                  0.6            3.8            3.1
Other                                  (1.3)          (3.4)          (2.3)
                                       -----          -----          -----
Effective income tax rate              46.5%          49.5%          46.0%
                                       -----          -----          -----
                                       -----          -----          -----

The deferred taxes refundable to parent reflect the Joint Venture Agreement in
which the partners also agreed that all tax benefits realized after the
formation of the Joint Venture should be refunded to the respective parents if
the benefits relate to temporary differences that originated in periods prior to
the formation of the Joint Venture.

In 1996, the tax payments were TDM 19,128, in 1995 TDM 24,503 and in 1994 TDM
21,368.


                                        - 40 -



5. RETIREMENT PLANS

The Joint Venture's German entities have noncontributory defined benefit pension
plans to provide pension benefits to substantially all eligible employees.
Employees of countries outside of Germany participate in various local plans,
principally contributory plans.

Benefits for the German plans are based upon salary and years of service. The
funding of these pension plans is not a common practice as funding provides no
economic (tax) benefit.

A summary of all the components of net periodic pension cost concerning the
plans in Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Great Britain and Austria for the
twelve months ended November 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994 follows (TDM):

                                       1996           1995           1994

Service cost-employee benefits         7,131          6,876          6,570
Interest cost                          9,109          8,256          7,709
Net amortization and deferral         (3,385)        (2,934)        (2,873)
                                      -------         ------         ------
Total pension expense                 12,855         12,198         11,106
                                      ------         ------         ------
                                      ------         ------         ------

The status of the above employee pension benefit plans at November 30, 1996,
1995 and 1994 is summarized below (TDM):

Actuarial present value of:            1996             1995           1994

Vested benefit obligation              105,068         94,350         74,684

Non-vested accumulated
benefit obligation                       9,513          8,957          7,346
                                       -------        -------        -------
Accumulated benefit obligation         114,581        103,307         82,030
                                       -------        -------        -------
                                       -------        -------        -------

Projected benefit obligation           138,189        126,351        104,470
Fair value of plan assets               45,839         41,855         36,575
                                       -------        -------        -------
Funded status                           92,350         84,496         67,895
Unrecognized net transition
obligation                               4,709          5,190          5,127
Unrecognized net (gain)/loss             4,175          5,252        (3,503)
                                       -------        -------        -------
Unfunded accrued pension cost           83,466         74,054         66,271
                                       -------        -------        -------
                                       -------        -------        -------


                                        - 41 -



The following assumptions have been used to develop net periodic pension expense
and the actuarial present value of projected benefit obligations:

                             1996             1995           1994

Assumed discount rate      7.0- 5.0 %       7.0- 5.0 %     7.5- 5.0 %

Expected return on plan    7,0-10,0 %       7,0-10,0 %     7,0-10,0 %
assets

Rate of increase in future
compensation levels             5.0- 3.0 %       5.0- 3.0 %     5.0- 3.0 %

Other Joint Venture-specific savings plans, post-retirement and post-employment
benefit plans requiring contribution by the Joint Venture are not material.


                                        - 42 -



6. TOTAL INDEBTEDNESS

Short Term Debt

As of November 30, 1996 short term debt totalled TDM 72,972  compared to 
November 30, 1995 TDM 17,695 and compared to November 30, 1994 TDM 19,256, 
generally in overdraft facilities with interest rates based on local money 
market rates. As of November 30, 1996 the three main balances are in Italian 
Lira in the equivalent amount of TDM 56,871 at an interest rate of 8.222 % 
p.a., in French Franc in the equivalent amount of TDM 9,409 at an interest 
rate of 5.0% p.a. and in Belgium Franc in the equivalent amount of TDM 3,397 
at an interest rate of 3.2 % p.a..

Long Term Debt

                                  1996           1995           1994
                                  -----          -----          -----
                                  TDM            TDM            TDM

Notes                             6,035          6,617          7,248
Less current maturities             652            712            727
                                  -----          -----          -----
Total                             5,383          5,905          6,521
                                  -----          -----          -----
                                  -----          -----          -----


The total long term debt amount is borrowed in Danish Krona at an average
interest rate of 10.18 % p.a.. As of November 30, 1996, the aggregate annual
maturities of long term debt for the next five years were:

1997 - TDM 652               1998 - TDM   652
1999 - TDM 652               2000 - TDM   165
2001 - TDM 3,914

Interest expense related to all debt was TDM 4,133 in 1996, compared to November
30, 1995 TDM 4,329 and compared to November 30, 1994 TDM 4,584. No significant
differences existed between interest expense and interest paid.

The fair value of short and long term debt approximates the book value.


                                        - 43 -



7. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

The Joint Venture operates internationally, giving rise to exposure to market
risks from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Derivative
financial instruments are utilized by the Joint Venture to reduce certain of
these risks, as explained in this note. The Joint Venture does not hold or issue
financial instruments for trading purposes. The Joint Venture is exposed to
credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to
financial instruments, but it does not expect any counterparties to fail to meet
their obligations given their high credit ratings.

a) Notional Amounts and Credit Exposures of Derivatives

The notional amounts of derivatives summarized in section b) do not represent
amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of the exposure of
the Joint Venture through its use of derivatives. The amounts exchanged are
calculated on the basis of the notional amounts and the other terms of the
derivatives, which relate to exchange rates.

b) Foreign Exchange Risk Management

The Joint Venture enters into various types of foreign exchange contracts in
managing its foreign exchange risk, as indicated in
the following table (TDM):

                        November 30,1996         November 30,1995
                        ----------------         ----------------
                        Notional   Credit        Notional   Credit
                        Amount   Exposure        Amount   Exposure
                        ------   --------        ------   --------

Forwards                17,562    0              36,105    0
Options purchased            0    0                   0    0

                             -    -                   -    -
                        17,562    0              36,105    0
                        ------    -              ------    -
                        ------    -              ------    -


The primary purpose of foreign exchange contracts is to hedge various
intercompany loans. The Joint Venture also enters to a limited extent into
forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain existing and anticipated
future net foreign exchange exposures. The anticipated future foreign exchange
exposure of the Joint Venture is the total of the net balances of all known and
planned incoming and outgoing payments of the Joint Venture's companies in
foreign currencies during a 12 months time horizon. Gains and losses arising on
hedged loan transactions are accrued to income over the period of the hedge.


                                        - 44 -






The table below summarizes by major currency the contractual amounts of the
Joint Venture's forward exchange and option contracts in German Marks. Foreign
currency amounts are translated at rates current at the reporting date.
The "buy" amounts represent the German Marks equivalent of commitments to
purchase foreign currencies, and the "sell" amounts represent the German Marks
equivalent of commitments to sell foreign currencies (TDM):


                                       1996                 1995
                                  --------------        -------------
                                  Buy       Sell        Buy     Sell

Italian Lira/US-Dollar                0       0          9,759   9,936
Belgium Franc/Dutch Guilders          0       0          4,866   4,865
Pound Sterling                    9,196   9,336          4,840   4,792
US-Dollar                             0       0          4,120   4,224
Finmark/Swedish Krona             2,291   2,287          2,641   2,531
Danish Krona                          0       0          2,574   2,582
Swiss Franc                           0       0          2,449   2,462
Greek Drachme/French Franc            0       0          2,024   2,060
Irish Pound                       3,262   3,319          1,434   1,441
Portuguese Escudo                     0       0            864     874
Finmark                               0       0            331     336
Norwegian Krona                       0       0            203     204
Pound Sterling/Belgium Franc      2,439   2,515              0       0
Swedish Krona/Danish Krona          374     387              0       0
                                  ---------------       --------------
                                 17,562  17,836         36,105  36,307
                                 ------  ------         ------  ------
                                 ------  ------         ------  ------

c) Fair Value of Off Balance Sheet Financial Instruments

The fair value of off balance sheet financial instruments is not significant.


                                        - 45 -



8. RESEARCH EXPENDITURES

Research expenditures which relate to the development of new products and
processes, including significant improvements and refinements to existing
products, were DM 31.8 million in 1996, DM 33.0 million in 1995 and DM 34.1
million in 1994.


                                        - 46 -



9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Joint Venture has a number of operating lease agreements primarily involving
motor vehicles, computer and other office equipment. The following is a schedule
by year of the future minimum lease payments required under the operating leases
that have initial or remaining noncancellable lease terms in excess of one year
as of November 30, 1996 (TDM):

              1997                16,089
              1998                11,591
              1999                 7,433
              2000                 4,764
              2001                 4,128
              thereafter           7,802
                                  ------

              Total               51,807
                                  ------
                                  ------

Rent expense for the twelve month period ended November 30, 1996, was
approximately TDM 18,503, compared to November 30, 1995 approximately TDM 17,790
and compared to November 30, 1994 approximately TDM 16,372.

The Joint Venture is subject to lawsuits and claims arising out of the conduct
of its business, including those relating to commercial transactions and
environmental safety. As an integral part of the Joint Venture agreement, Henkel
and Ecolab have provided certain representations and warranties against future
expenditures arising from operations prior to July 1, 1991.

A subsidiary of the Joint Venture is named in an environmental legal action
related to the conduct of its business prior to the formation of the Joint
Venture on July 1, 1991. Based on the facts currently known to the Joint
Venture, and after consultation with Legal Counsel, management believes that the
Joint Venture is indemnified against any potential liability arising from such
action under the terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated Umbrella
Agreement dated June 26, 1991, by and between Henkel and Ecolab.

Therefore, the Joint Venture does not expect material adverse effects on its
financial position, results of operations or liquidity from the outcome of these
losses and claims.


                                        - 47 -



The Joint Venture's operations and customers are located throughout in Europe
and operate in the industrial and institutional hygiene business. No single
customer accounted for a significant amount of the Joint Venture's sales in
1996, 1995 and 1994, and there were no significant accounts receivable from a
single customer at November 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994. The Joint Venture
establishes an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon factors surrounding
the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other information.


                                        - 48 -



HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE

  Schedule - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
                  (Thousands)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Description       Balance,    Additions      Deductions     Balance,
                      Beg. of        (a)            from        Close of
                      Period                       Reserve      Period
                                                     (b)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Period Ended
  November 30, 1994

  Allowance for   DM    12,451         5,245          4,213          13,483
    doubtful
    Accounts
                      -------------------------------------------------------
                  DM    12,451         5,245          4,213          13,483
                      =======================================================

  Period Ended
  November 30, 1995

  Allowance for   DM    13,483         5,365          4,574          14,274
    doubtful
    Accounts
                      -------------------------------------------------------
                  DM    13,483         5,365          4,574          14,274
                      =======================================================

  Period Ended
  November 30, 1996

  Allowance for   DM    14,274         5,439          3,514          16,199
    doubtful
    Accounts
                      -------------------------------------------------------
                  DM    14,274         5,439          3,514          16,199
                      =======================================================


(a) Provision for doubtful accounts
     (charged to expenses)

(b)  Items determined to be uncollectible,
      less recovery of amounts previously written off.


                                        - 49 -



                                    EXHIBIT INDEX

The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Report.

 



