
10-K405
FORM 10-K



                                    FORM 10-K
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

(Mark One)

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1994
                          -----------------

[  ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ............ to .............

Commission File No. 1-9328
                    ------

                                   ECOLAB INC.
             -------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                    41-0231510
-------------------------------                  --------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

   Ecolab Center, St. Paul, Minnesota                   55102
----------------------------------------         --------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   (612) 293-2233
                                                     ----------------

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of Each Class      Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
     -------------------      -----------------------------------------

Common Stock, $1.00 par value      New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                   Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights    New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
                                   Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
YES   X    NO
    -----     -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [ X ]

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of Registrant on
March 9, 1995:  $1,516,618,830 (see Item 12, on pages 18 and 19 hereof).  The
number of shares of Registrant's Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share,
outstanding as of March 9, 1995: 67,837,646 shares.


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     1.   Portions of Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
          ended December 31, 1994 (hereinafter referred to as "Annual Report")
          are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV.

     2.   Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
          to be held May 12, 1995 and to be filed within 120 days after the
          Registrant's fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (hereinafter referred
          to as "Proxy Statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III.


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

ITEM 1(A) GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

Except where the context otherwise requires, the terms "Company" and "Ecolab,"
as used herein, include Ecolab Inc. and its subsidiaries.  Ecolab Inc. was
incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1924.  The Company's fiscal year is
the calendar year ending December 31.

In December, 1994 the Company acquired by merger the shares of Kay Chemical
Corporation and certain affiliated companies ("Kay").  The merger has been
accounted for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly, periods prior to the
merger included in the financial statements and financial statement schedule
incorporated by reference into this report have been restated to reflect all
accounts and operations of Kay.  Kay is a manufacturer and supplier of cleaning
and sanitizing products for the quick service restaurant ("fast-food") industry.
A description of the Kay business is located at page 5 under the heading
"Business Divisions," under Item 1(c).  Kay's operations are conducted through
the wholly-owned subsidiaries acquired in the merger.

The Company and Henkel KGaA of Dusseldorf, Germany, each have a 50% economic
interest in a joint venture which operates institutional and industrial cleaning
and sanitizing businesses in Europe, and which is referred to hereafter as the
"Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture" or "Joint Venture."  Henkel KGaA, by virtue of a
tie-breaking vote on certain operational matters, may control the day-to-day
operations of the Joint Venture.  Strategic decisions concerning the Joint
Venture require the agreement of Henkel and the Company.  The Company accounts
for its interest in the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture under the equity method of
accounting and therefore does not consolidate the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
revenues and expenses.  Except where the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture is
specifically referred to, the description of business in Part I does not include
the business of the Joint Venture.

                                      - 2 -



ITEM 1(B) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

The Company's operations are all conducted in one industry segment.

ITEM 1(C) NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

The Company is engaged in the development and marketing of premium products and
services for the hospitality, institutional and industrial markets.  The Company
provides cleaning, sanitizing, pest elimination and maintenance products,
systems and services primarily to hotels and restaurants, foodservice and
healthcare facilities, commercial and institutional laundries and to dairy
plants, farms and food and beverage processors.

A strong commitment to service is the distinguishing characteristic of the
Company.  Products and services are primarily marketed in domestic and
international markets by Company-trained sales and service personnel who also
advise and assist customers in the proper and efficient use of the products and
systems.  Distributors are increasingly utilized in several markets.

The Company manufactures most of its products and related equipment in
Company-owned manufacturing facilities.  Some are also produced for the Company
by third party contract manufacturers.  Other products and equipment,
particularly those used in the Company's pest elimination business, are
purchased from third party suppliers.  Additional information on the Company's
manufacturing facilities is located under Item 2 below under the heading
"Properties."

As described below, not all of the businesses conducted in the United States by
the Company are conducted in all international locations, and the extent and
nature of such international businesses, as well as the competitive environment,
varies by location.  European markets, as described under Item 1(a) above under
the heading "General Development of Business," are served through the Henkel-
Ecolab Joint Venture, although the Kay business does have sales in Europe.

In the United States and Canada, the Company operates through six divisions:
Institutional Division, Kay Division, Klenzade Division, Pest Elimination
Division, Textile Care Division and Janitorial Division.  Institutional and
Klenzade businesses are operated in virtually all locations outside of the
United States.  As described below, Kay, Pest Elimination, Janitorial and
Textile Care products are not sold in all areas outside of the United States and
Canada, but these businesses are being introduced in an expanding number of
locations.

                                      - 3 -
 

The Company conducts business in approximately 25 countries outside of the
United States, primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries.  In certain other
countries, selected products are handled by distributors or agents, although
those sales are not significant in terms of the Company's overall revenues.  For
the year ended December 31, 1994, international sales comprised approximately
22% of the Company's total reported revenues from continuing operations.  For
purposes of public financial reporting, international operations include Canada,
but on an operational basis the Institutional, Klenzade, Pest Elimination,
Textile Care and Janitorial businesses in Canada are operated as a part of a
North American group for each of those businesses.

BUSINESS DIVISIONS

The following description of the divisions includes a discussion, where
applicable, of the similar business currently conducted outside of the United
States.  Although the descriptions of the divisional business focuses on that
division's products, the Company pursues a "Circle-the-Customer" strategy by
developing relationships and partnerships with customers who require the
services of more than one division.  Therefore, a single customer may utilize
the services of several of the Company's divisions.

INSTITUTIONAL:  The Institutional Division is the Company's largest division and
sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware,
flatware, food service utensils and kitchen equipment ("warewashing"), for
on-premise laundries (typically used by customers having smaller machines and
laundry needs) and for general housekeeping functions, as well as dishwasher
racks and related kitchen sundries to the food-service, lodging and healthcare
industries.  The Institutional Division also markets various chemical dispensing
device systems, which are generally loaned to customers, to apply the Company's
cleaners and sanitizers.  Substantially similar businesses are conducted in all
international locations although somewhat less extensive product lines are often
offered internationally.  Also, through its Ecotemp unit, the Institutional
Division markets, primarily to smaller and mid-size Institutional customers, a
program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents and rinse
additives, including full machine maintenance.

The Company believes it is the leading supplier of chemical warewashing products
to institutions in the United States and Canada and is one of the leading
suppliers worldwide except for Europe where the business is conducted by the
Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture.

The Institutional Division sells its products and services primarily through
Company-employed field sales and service personnel.  To a lesser but increasing
extent, the Company also utilizes independent food service distributors to
market and sell

                                      - 4 -



its products to smaller accounts or accounts which purchase through food
distributors.  This distribution system encompasses most of the Division's
product line and the Company provides the same service to accounts served by
food distributors as to direct customers.

KAY:  The Kay Division (which is operated through wholly-owned subsidiaries of
the Company) is the Company's newest business.  As noted in Item 1(a) under the
heading of "General Development of the Business," the Company acquired the Kay
business by merger in December, 1994.  Kay supplies chemical cleaning and
sanitizing products primarily to the quick-service ("fast-food") restaurant
industry.  Kay's products include specialty and general purpose hard surface
cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes and hand care products and assorted
cleaning tools.  Products are sold under the "Kay" brand or the customer's
private label.  Kay employs a direct field sales force which primarily calls
upon national and regional quick service restaurant chains and franchisees,
although the sales are made to distributors who supply the chain or franchisee's
restaurants.  The addition of the Kay business has significantly expanded the
Company's presence in the restaurant and food service industry beyond the full
service market to the quick-service industry.

Kay sales are primarily in the United States but as its United States based
customers have expanded into international markets, Kay's international sales
have likewise expanded and now constitute approximately 15% of Kay's sales.
Kay's international sales are made either to domestic distributors, who export
to international accounts or by direct export sales to distributors located at
international locations.

The Company believes that its Kay Division is the leading supplier of chemical
cleaning and sanitizing products to the quick service restaurant industry in the
United States as well as in certain international markets.  While the Kay
customer base has been growing, Kay's business is largely dependent upon a
limited number of major national and international quick-service restaurant
chains and franchisees.

KLENZADE:  The Klenzade Division provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers,
lubricants and water treatment products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic
dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical products,
primarily to dairy plants, dairy, poultry and swine farms, breweries, soft drink
bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food processors.  The Klenzade
Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP (clean-in-place) process
control systems and facility cleaning systems to its customer base.  Farm
products (which include bovine teat products) are sold through dealers and
distributors, while plant products are sold primarily by the Company's field
sales personnel.  The Company believes that it is one of the leading suppliers
of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm and beverage

                                      - 5 -



processor industries in the United States.  The Klenzade business operates in
most international locations.

PEST ELIMINATION:  The Pest Elimination Division provides services for the
elimination and prevention of pests to restaurants, food and beverage
processors, education and healthcare facilities and other institutional and
commercial customers.  These services are sold and performed by Company-employed
sales and service personnel.  The Company believes it is the largest provider of
premium pest elimination services to institutions in the United States.  The
Pest Elimination business currently is operated primarily in the United States,
with limited sales in Puerto Rico and parts of Canada and Mexico.  Pest
Elimination operations will be introduced to a limited number of additional
international locations during 1995.

TEXTILE CARE:  The Textile Care Division provides chemical laundry products and
proprietary dispensing systems, as well as related services, to medium-to-large
institutional and commercial laundries  and to certain smaller laundry
operations.  Typically these customers process a minimum of 1,000,000 pounds of
linens a year.  These products and services include laundry cleaning and
specialty products and related dispensing equipment, which are marketed
primarily through a Company-employed sales force and, to a lesser extent,
through distributors.  The Textile Care offerings compliment the Institutional
Division's offerings to smaller on-premise laundry facilities.  The Textile Care
services are sold primarily in the United States and Canada, but similar product
lines are sold in a number of other international locations.

JANITORIAL:  The Janitorial Division provides odor counteractants,
disinfectants, floor care or hard surface and carpet care systems, hand care
products and general cleaners primarily to the institutional janitorial market
in the United States and Canada and, particularly in the United States, to the
healthcare industry.  Products are sold in the United States and Canada
primarily through a network of independent distributors who sell
janitorial-related products and services to the institutional marketplace.  A
private-label program also manufactures janitorial-related products for resale
by major distributor organizations in the United States and Canada.  Janitorial
products are also sold on a limited basis in other international markets.

COMPETITION

The Company emphasizes its ability to uniformly provide a variety of related
premium cleaning and sanitation services to multiple locations of chain customer
organizations worldwide.  This is succinctly stated in the Company's "Circle the
Customer - Circle the Globe" strategy.  In executing this strategy, the
Company's business units have two significant classes of competitors.  First,
each business unit competes with a small number of large companies

                                       -6-



selling directly or through distributors on a national or international scale.
Several of these large competitors have substantially greater assets and
financial resources than the Company.  Second, all of the Company's business
units have numerous smaller regional or local competitors focusing on more
limited geographies, product lines, and/or end-user segments.

The Company's objective is to achieve a significant presence in each of its
business markets.  In general, competition is based on service, product
performance and price.  The Company believes it  competes principally by
providing superior value.  Value is provided by state-of-the-art,
environmentally-compatible cleaning products and systems coupled with high
service standards and dedication to customer satisfaction after the initial
sale.  This approach is believed to be made possible, in part, by the
significant ongoing investment in technology development and by the Company's
standard practice of assisting customers in complying with environmental and
sanitation regulations.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing products for the Company are
inorganic chemicals, including phosphates, silicates, alkalis, salts and
petrochemical-based materials, including surfactants and solvents.  These
materials are generally purchased on an annual contract basis from a diverse
group of chemical manufacturers.  Pesticides used by the Pest Elimination
Division are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order
from the producers or their distributors.  The Company also purchases packaging
materials for the manufactured products and components for its specialized
cleaning equipment and systems.  Most raw materials, or substitutes for those
materials, used by the Company, with the exception of a few specialized
chemicals which the Company manufactures, are available from several suppliers.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Deliveries to customers are made from the Company's manufacturing plants and a
network of distribution centers and public warehouses.  The Company uses both
common carriers and its own delivery vehicles.  Additional information on the
Company's plant and distribution facilities is located under Item 2 below under
the heading "Properties."

The Company owns a number of patents and trademarks.  Management does not
believe that the Company's business is materially dependent on any individual
patent or trademark.

The Company believes that its business is not materially dependent upon a
single customer although, as described above in this Item 1(c) under the
description of the Kay business, Kay is largely dependent upon a limited number
of national and international quick-service

                                      - 7 -



restaurant chains and franchisees.  No material part of the Company's business
is subject to renegotiation.  The Company sells two classes of products which
each constitute 10 percent or more of its sales.  Worldwide sales of
warewashing products in 1994, 1993 and 1992 approximated 35, 36 and 35 percent,
respectively, of the Company's consolidated net sales.  In addition, the
Company, through its Institutional and Textile Care businesses, sells laundry
products and services to a broad range of laundry customers as described in more
detail under the heading "Business Divisions" beginning on page 4 hereof.  Total
laundry sales in 1994, 1993 and 1992 approximated 15, 15 and 14 percent,
respectively, of the Company's consolidated net sales.

The Company's business has little seasonality and has no unusual working capital
requirements.  The Company has in the past, and will continue in the future, to
invest in merchandising equipment consisting primarily of systems used by
customers to dispense the Company's cleaning and sanitizing products.  The
investment in merchandising equipment is discussed under the heading "Investing
Activities" in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations incorporated into Item 7 hereof.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's research and development program consists principally of devising
or testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the
efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, and evaluating
the environmental compatibility of products.  Key disciplines include analytical
and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering and
product dispensing technology.  Substantially all of the Company's principal
products have been developed by its research and development personnel.  Note
12, entitled "Research Expenditures" located on page 42 of the Annual Report,
is incorporated herein by reference.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

The Company's businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and
regulations relating to the protection of the environment.  While the Company
cooperates with governmental authorities and takes commercially practicable
measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental
effects, some risks are inherent in the Company's businesses.  The Company's
management believes these are risks which the Company has in common with other
companies engaged in similar businesses.  Among the risks are costs associated
with managing hazardous substances, waste disposal or plant site clean-up, fines
and penalties if the Company were found in violation of law, as well as
modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of

                                      - 8 -



operations.  There can be no assurance that future legislation or enforcement
policies will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.  Environmental matters most significant to
the Company are discussed below.

PHOSPHATE LEGISLATION:  Various laws and regulations have been enacted by state,
local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of products which contain
phosphorous.  The primary thrust of such laws and regulations is to regulate the
phosphorous content of home laundry detergents, a market not served by the
Company.  However, certain of the Company's products are affected by such laws
and regulations, including some commercial laundry and warewashing detergents,
cleaners and sanitizers.  Three types of legislative restrictions are common:
(1) labeling of phosphorous content, (2) percentage limitation on the amount of
phosphorous permitted and (3) a ban on the use of phosphorous in certain
products or in products sold for a particular purpose.  The Company has been
able to comply with legislative requirements and, where necessary, has developed
products which, although typically less effective than the products they
replace, contain no phosphorous or lower amounts of phosphorous to satisfy the
legislative limitations or bans.  In limited geographic areas, the Company has
obtained a variance from existing zero-phosphorous legislation.  Phosphate
legislation has not had a material negative effect on the Company's operations
to date.

PESTICIDE LEGISLATION:  Various federal and state environmental laws and
regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of pesticides.  The Company
manufactures and sells certain disinfecting and sanitizing products which kill
microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on environmental surfaces.  Such
products constitute "pesticides" under the current definitions of the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), the principal federal statute
governing the manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides.  These
products must be registered with the United States Environmental Protection
Agency ("EPA").  Registration entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy and
labeling requirements and to pay initial and on-going registration fees.  In
addition, each state in which these products are sold requires registration and
payment of a fee.  In general, the states impose no substantive requirements
different from those required by FIFRA.  However, California does have its own
regulatory scheme and certain other states have regulatory schemes under
consideration.  In addition, California imposes a tax on total pesticide sales
in that state.  While the costs of complying with rules as to pesticides has not
had a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or the
results of its operations to date, the costs and delays in receiving necessary
approvals for these products has increased in recent years.  The Company
believes that the nature of these costs and regulatory delays are similar to
those encountered by other companies in similar businesses.  Total fees paid
to the

                                      - 9 -



EPA and the states to obtain or maintain pesticide registrations, and for the
California tax, in 1994 were approximately $915,000.  Such costs are expected to
increase somewhat in 1995, but not in amounts which are expected to
significantly affect the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, the Company's Pest Elimination Division applies restricted-use
pesticides which it purchases from third parties.  That Division must comply
with certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the
licensing of employees who apply such pesticides.  Such regulations are enforced
primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with federal
regulations.  The Company has not experienced material difficulties in complying
with these requirements.

OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION:  The Company's manufacturing plants are subject
to federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating
to discharge of materials into the environment and to the handling and disposal
of hazardous materials.  The primary federal statutes that apply to the
Company's activities are the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA").  The Company makes capital investments
and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, to ensure
employee safety and to carry out its announced environmental stewardship
principles.  To date such expenditures have not had a significant adverse effect
on the financial condition of the Company or its results of operations.  The
Company's capital expenditures for environmental control projects incurred for
1994 and budgeted for 1995 are approximately $1,000,000 and $2,400,000,
respectively.  The Company is also subject to the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to
emissions of toxic substances into the air, land and water.

Along with numerous other potentially responsible parties ("PRPs"), the Company
is involved with waste disposal site clean-up activities imposed by the federal
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA")
or state equivalents at approximately 12 waste disposal sites which received
nominal amounts of waste materials alleged to have been generated by the Company
or it subsidiaries.  In general, under CERCLA, the Company and each other PRP
which actually contributes hazardous substances to a superfund site are jointly
and severally liable for the costs associated with cleaning up the site.
Customarily, the PRP's will work with the EPA to agree and implement a plan for
site remediation and the allocation of each PRP's involvement.  The above sites
are in various stages of investigation, negotiation or remediation.  However,
based on an analysis of the Company's experience with such sites, the Company's
estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the site, and the
Company's estimate of the contribution to be made by other PRP's which the
Company believes have the financial ability to pay their shares,

                                     - 10 -



the Company has accrued its reasonable estimate of the Company's future costs
relating to such known sites.

Also, the Company is involved in certain continuing clean-up activities as
required by New Jersey and Nebraska environmental authorities at two sites
currently or formerly used by the Company.  The costs associated with these
sites are comprised primarily of remediation efforts associated with soil and
ground water contamination.  In addition, the Company is also committed to meet
requirements imposed by the EPA pursuant to RCRA, to remove three underground
storage tanks at its Joliet, Illinois manufacturing facility.  In each of these
matters, the Company has worked with appropriate authorities to resolve the
issues involved and has accrued its reasonable estimate of future costs relating
to such sites.

A legal action commenced in August, 1989 in the District Court in Zwolle,
Netherlands, by the Netherlands government against a former subsidiary of the
Company remains pending.  Netherlands authorities are seeking monetary damages
to cover the cost of investigation and planned cleanup of soil and groundwater
contamination, allegedly resulting from the discharge of wastewater and
chemicals during a period ended in 1981 when the subsidiary operated a plant on
the site.  The government's initial claim was for US$900,000, but it has now
claimed the damages are approximately US$13,000,000, based upon further
environmental studies.  The subsidiary has denied liability and believes it
complied with applicable Netherlands law.  Even if the Netherlands government
should prevail as to liability, it is believed the reasonable costs of
investigation and cleanup are less than that claimed by the government.  An
accrual has been recorded, reflecting management's best estimate of future
costs.

During 1994, the Company's expenditures for contamination remediation were
approximately $500,000.  The accrual at the end of 1994 for future remediation
expenditures was approximately $8,700,000.  The Company reviews its exposure for
contamination remediation costs periodically and its accruals are adjusted as
considered appropriate.  In establishing accruals, the Company does not
anticipate recovery of costs from insurance proceeds.  While the final
resolution of these issues could result in costs below or above current
accruals, the Company believes the ultimate resolution of these matters will not
have a significant effect on the Company's results of operations, consolidated
financial position or liquidity.

In addition, the Company has retained responsibility for certain sites where the
Company's former ChemLawn business is a PRP.  Currently there are five such
locations and at each ChemLawn is a de minimus party.  Anticipated costs for
these matters was included in the Company's loss from its discontinued ChemLawn
operations in 1991.

                                     - 11 -



NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES

The Company currently has approximately 8,200 employees worldwide.

ITEM 1(D) FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT
SALES

The financial information appearing under the heading "Geographic Segments" in
Note 14, located on page 43 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by
reference.  Transfers between geographic areas are not significant.

A description of the business done outside of the United States is included in
Item 1(c), above.  International businesses are subject to the usual risks of
foreign operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment
laws, tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions
abroad.  International operations constitute the fastest growing segment of the
Company's business.  Profitability of international operations is lower than
profitability of businesses in the United States because of lower international
operating income margins due to the difference in scale of international
operations where operating locations are smaller in size and due to the
additional costs of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The persons listed in the following table are the current executive officers of
the Company.  Officers are elected annually.  There is no family relationship
among any of the directors or executive officers, and none of such persons has
been involved during the past five years in any legal proceedings described in
applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.



Mr. Spooner joined the Company as Senior Vice President-Industrial in June 1994.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Spooner was employed by PepsiCo, Inc. for 15
years, holding various positions in operations and business development,
including most recently, President of the North Division of Frito-Lay, Inc.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company's manufacturing facilities produce chemical products or equipment
for all the Company's businesses except the Pest Elimination Division which
purchases products and substantially all its equipment from outside suppliers.
The Company's chemical production process consists primarily of blending and
packaging powders and liquids and casting solids.

                                     - 14 -



The Company's United States plant facilities devoted primarily to the production
of chemical products are located in Joliet, Illinois; Woodbridge, New Jersey;
McDonough, Georgia; Garland, Texas and San Jose, California.  Smaller plant
facilities in Franklin Park, Illinois, and Grand Forks, North Dakota produce
certain chemical products primarily for the Company's Textile Care and
Janitorial divisions.  These facilities are all Company-owned.  The Company's
Kay business also owns and operates manufacturing facilites in Greensboro, North
Carolina and Dallas, Texas.

Additional chemical manufacturing facilities are located in Dorado, Puerto Rico;
Santa Cruz, Brazil; Hamilton, New Zealand; Noda and Shika, Japan; Singapore;
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane, Australia; Seoul, Korea; Mexico City, Mexico,
and Toronto, Canada.  The buildings and land for the facilities located in
Canada, Australia, Puerto Rico and Mexico are leased.  A chemical plant, which
is co-owned with a Chinese joint venture partner, is located near Shanghai,
People's Republic of China, and a leased chemical plant is located in Chile.
Smaller chemical plant facilities are located in certain other countries.
Additional  chemical plants are expected to be added in the Great Lakes region
of the United States and in Indonesia.

The Company's plant in South Beloit, Illinois produces chemical product
dispensers and injectors and other mechanical equipment.  A leased plant, which
manufactures dishwasher racks and related sundries, is located in Elk Grove
Village, Illinois.  Dishwasher racks are also produced at the Shika, Japan
plant.  A leased facility in Memphis, Tennessee serves as a dishwashing machine
refurbishing center.

The Company believes its manufacturing facilities are in good condition and are
adequate to meet existing production needs.

Most of the Company's manufacturing plants also serve as distribution centers.
In addition, in the United States the Company operates 7 distribution centers,
all of which are leased, and utilizes 28 primary public warehouses.
Internationally, the Company operates various additional leased or public
warehouses to facilitate distribution and, in the United States, operates
approximately 119 sales offices, including three Company-owned facilities.
Additional sales offices are located internationally.

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in downtown St. Paul, Minnesota.
The 19-story building was constructed to the Company's specifications.  The
building is leased by the Company through 1998 and thereafter is subject to
multiple renewals at the Company's option.  The Company also owns a building in
downtown St. Paul adjacent to its headquarters which is used for general office

                                     - 15 -
 

purposes, as well as a computer center located in a City of St. Paul industrial
development zone several blocks from the Company's headquarters.  A
Company-owned research and development facility and a chemical pilot plant are
located in suburbs of St. Paul.

The Company is also the managing partner in a partnership which owns two
properties used in the Company's former ChemLawn operations.  The properties are
currently leased to a subsidiary of ServiceMaster Limited Partnership and used
by that entity as a branch office for its lawn care business.  The properties
are located in suburbs of Columbus and Dayton, Ohio.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Proceedings arising under laws relating to protection of the environment are
discussed at Item 1(c) above, under the heading "Environmental Considerations."

As previously reported in last year's Form 10-K, a legal action had been
commenced by F.F. Corp. of New York ("Plaintiff") in 1991 in U.S. District
Court, Western District of New York in which Plaintiff alleged that a March 1989
fire, which destroyed its rendering plant, was caused by a commercial clothes
dryer which was manufactured by the Company and purchased by Plaintiff in 1974.
Plaintiff sought in excess of $17,000,000 in damages plus interest and costs.
On December 7, 1994, this matter was settled, with the Company's contribution,
including its legal fees, totaling $1,000,000.  The Company's insurance
companies and another defendant made additional contributions to the settlement.


The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are defendants in various other
lawsuits and claims arising out of the normal course of business.  In the
opinion of management, the ultimate resolution of this litigation will not have
a material effect on the Company or its operations.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders, through the
solicitation of proxies, or otherwise, during the fourth quarter.

                                     - 16 -
 

                                     PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

ITEM 5(A) MARKET INFORMATION

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the
Pacific Stock Exchange under the symbol ECL.  The Common Stock is also traded on
the Boston, Cincinnati, Midwest and Philadelphia Exchanges.  The high and low
sales price of the Company's Common Stock on the consolidated transaction
reporting system during 1994 and 1993 was as follows:



     The closing stock price on March 9, 1995 was $23-1/8.

ITEM 5(B) HOLDERS

On March 9, 1995 the Company had 4,854 holders of Common Stock of record.

ITEM 5(C) DIVIDENDS

Quarterly cash dividends customarily are paid on the 15th of January, April,
July and October.  Dividends of $0.095 per share were declared in February, May
and August, 1993, $0.011 per share in December, 1993 and February, May and
August, 1994.  A cash dividend of $0.125 per share was declared in December
1994.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The comparative data for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993, 1992, 1991 and
1990 inclusive, which are set forth under the heading entitled "Summary
Operating and Financial Data" and which are located on pages 46 and 47 of the
Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference.

                                     - 17 -



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

The material appearing under the heading entitled "Financial Discussion,"
located on pages 24 through 30 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The financial statements and material which are an integral part of the
financial statements listed under Item 14 I(1) below and located on pages 31
through 45 of the Annual Report, are filed as a part of this Report and are
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The biographical material located on pages 6 through 10 and the paragraph
relating to understandings concerning the election of directors between Henkel
KGaA and the Company located on page 5 of the Proxy Statement appearing under
the heading entitled "Election of Directors," is incorporated herein by
reference.  Information regarding executive officers is presented under the
heading "Executive Officers of the Company" in Part I of this Report on pages 12
through 14.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The material appearing under the heading entitled "Executive Compensation,"
located on pages 11 through 20 of the Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by
reference.  However, pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation
S-K, Item 402(a)(8), the material appearing under the headings entitled "Report
of the Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation" and "Comparison of Five
Year Cumulative Total Return," found, respectively, on pages 11 through 13 and
on page 17 of the Proxy Statement is not incorporated herein.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The material appearing under the headings entitled "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Security Ownership of Management" located on
pages 2 and 3 of the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  The
holdings of Henkel KGaA and HC Investments, Inc. are subject to certain
limitations with respect to the Company's voting securities as more fully
described in the Company's Proxy Statement on page 20, beginning with the

                                     - 18 -



fourth paragraph under the heading "Certain Transactions," which is incorporated
herein by reference.

A total of 2,254,129 shares of Common Stock held by the Company's directors and
executive officers, some of whom may be affiliates of the Company, have been
excluded from the computation of market value of the Company's Common Stock on
the cover page of this Report.  This total represents that portion of the shares
reported as beneficially owned by officers and directors of the Company in the
table entitled "Security Ownership of Management" located on page 3 of the Proxy
Statement, which are issued and outstanding.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The material appearing under the headings entitled "Certain Transactions" and
"Company Transactions" on pages 20 and 21 of the Proxy Statement and the
biographical material located on pages 7 and 9 of the Proxy Statement pertaining
to Messrs. Hugo Uyterhoeven, Albrecht Woeste and Roland Schulz is incorporated
herein by reference.


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

I(1). The following financial statements of the Company, included in the Annual
      Report, are incorporated in Item 8 hereof.

           (i)      Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended
                    December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, Annual Report page 31.

           (ii)     Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1994, 1993 and
                    1992, Annual Report page 32.

           (iii)    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended
                    December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, Annual Report page 33.

           (iv)     Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the years
                    ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, Annual Report page
                    34.

           (v)      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Annual Report
                    pages 35 through 44.

           (vi)     Report of Independent Accountants, Annual Report page 45.

                                     - 19 -



I(2). The following financial statement schedule to the Company's financial
      statements listed in Item 14 I(1) for the years ended December 31, 1994,
      1993 and 1992 located on page 30 hereof, and the Report of Independent
      Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule at page 29 hereof are filed
      as part of this Report.

           (i)      Schedule VIII -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the
                    years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

           All other schedules, for which provision is made in the applicable
           regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, are not
           required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and
           therefore have been omitted.  All significant majority-owned
           subsidiaries are included in the filed consolidated financial
           statements.

I(3). The following financial statements of the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
      located on pages 31 to 50 hereof, are filed as part of this Report.

           (i)      Report of Independent Accountants.

           (ii)     Combined Statements of Income for the years ended November
                    30, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

           (iii)    Combined Balance Sheets at November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

           (iv)     Combined Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
                    November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

           (v)      Combined Statements of Equity for the years ended November
                    30, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

           (vi)     Notes to the Combined Financial Statements.

I(4). The following financial statement schedules to the Henkel-Ecolab Joint
      Venture financial statements listed in Item 14 I(3) for the years ended
      November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992 located on pages 51 to 53 hereof, and
      the Report of Independent Accountants on pages 31 and 32 hereof are filed
      as part of this Report.

           (i)      Schedule I -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
                    for the years ended November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

                                     - 20 -



           (ii)     Schedule II -- Property, Plant and Equipment for the yers
                    ended November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

           (iii)    Schedule III -- Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of
                    Property, Plant and Equipment for the years ended November
                    30, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

           All other schedules, for which provision is made in the applicable
           regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, are not
           required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and
           therefore have been omitted.  All significant entities of the
           Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture are included in the filed combined
           financial statements.

II.   The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Report.  The
      Company will, upon request and payment of a fee not exceeding the rate at
      which copies are available from the Securities and Exchange Commission,
      furnish copies of any of the following exhibits to stockholders.

           (3)A.    Restated Certificate of Incorporation - Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit (3)A of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                    Report for the year ended December 31, 1992.

              B.    By-Laws, as amended through February 25, 1995.

           (4)A.    Common Stock - see Exhibits (3)A and (3)B.

              B.    Form of Common Stock Certificate - Incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit (4)A(ii) of the Registrant's Form 10-K Annual
                    Report for the year ended December 31, 1992.

              C.    (i)   Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of
                          February 14, 1986, as amended and restated as of July
                          15, 1988 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)
                          of the Company's Form 8-K dated July 15, 1988.

                    (ii)  First Amendment, dated as of September 10, 1990 to
                          the  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4) of the
                          Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September
                          11, 1990.

                                     - 21 -



             D.     Note Agreement dated as of October 1, 1991 relating to
                    $100,000,000 9.68% Senior Notes Due October 1, 2001 between
                    the Company and the insurance companies named therein -
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)F of the Company's
                    Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                    1991.

             E.     Multicurrency Credit Agreement dated as of September 29,
                    1993, as Amended and Restated as of January 1, 1995, among
                    the Company, the financial institutions party thereto,
                    Citibank, N.A., as Agent, Citibank International Plc, as
                    Euro-Agent and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York as
                    Co-Agent.

             F.     Copies of other constituent instruments defining the rights
                    of holders of long-term debt of the Company and its
                    subsidiaries are not filed herewith, pursuant to Section
                    (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K, because the
                    aggregate amount of securities authorized under each of such
                    instruments is less than 10% of the total assets of the
                    Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The
                    Company hereby agrees that it will, upon request by the
                    Securities and Exchange Commission, furnish to the
                    Commission a copy of each such instrument.

           (9)      Amended and Restated Stockholder's Agreement - See Exhibit
                    (10)S(iv) hereof.

           (10)A.   Ecolab Inc. 1977 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended through
                    May  10, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)A
                    of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended
                    December 31, 1990.

               B.   Ecolab Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan - Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit (10)B of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                    Report for the year ended December 31, 1992.

               C.   1988 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan as amended
                    through February 23, 1991 - Incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit (10)D of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                    the year ended December 31, 1990.

                                     - 22 -



               D.   1995 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.  This Plan
                    will become effective only upon approval by the Stockholders
                    of the Company at the Company's Annual Meeting scheduled to
                    be held May 12, 1995.

               E.   Non-Employee Director Stock-For-Retainer Plan - Incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit (10)E of the Company's Form 10-K
                    Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1991.

               F.   Form of Director Indemnification Agreement dated August 11,
                    1989.  Substantially identical agreements are in effect as
                    to each director of the Company - Incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit (19)A of the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
                    ended September 30, 1989.

               G.   (i)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
                          (1984) - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                          (10)F(i) of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for
                          the year ended December 31, 1990.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Deferred
                          Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (1984)
                          effective December 13, 1991 - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit (10)G(ii) of the Company's Form
                          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                          1991.

               H.   (i)   Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors
                          - 1986 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)F
                          of the Company's Form 10-K Annual Report for the
                          fiscal year ended June 30, 1987.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Deferred
                          Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors - 1986,
                          effective December 13, 1991 - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit (10)H(ii) of the Company's Form
                          10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                          1991.

                                     - 23 -



               I.   Ecolab Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan -
                    Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)I of the Company's
                    Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,
                    1991.

               J.   Ecolab Executive Death Benefits Plan, as amended and
                    restated effective March 1, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P
                    hereof.

               K.   Ecolab Executive Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended and
                    restated effective January 1, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P
                    hereof.

               L.   Ecolab Executive Financial Counseling Plan - Incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit (10)K of the Company's Form 10-K Annual
                    Report for the year ended December 31, 1992.

               M.   (i)   Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as
                          amended and restated effective July 1, 1994.  See
                          also Exhibit (10)P hereof.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Supplemental
                          Executive Retirement Plan effective as of July 1,
                          1994.

               N.   Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan (formerly:  Ecolab Executive Non-
                    Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan), as amended and
                    restated effective September 1, 1994.  See also Exhibit
                    (10)P hereof.

               O.   (i)   Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan effective July 1, 1994.
                          See also Exhibit 10(P) hereof.

                    (ii)  First Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror
                          Pension Plan effective as of July 1, 1994.

               P.   The Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for Non-Qualified
                    Benefit Plans (Exhibit 10(P)) is incorporated by reference
                    in, and is a part of, each of the referenced Plan documents.

               Q.   Ecolab Management Performance Incentive Plan - Incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit (10)N of the Company's Form 10-K
                    Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1993.

                                     - 24 -



               R.   (i)   Severance Agreement dated March 19, 1990, between
                          Pierson M.  Grieve and the Company - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit (10)M of the Company's Form 10-K
                          Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1989.

                    (ii)  Amendment, dated as of February 26, 1994, to
                          Severance Agreement dated March 19, 1994, between
                          Pierson M. Grieve and the Company - Incorporated by
                          reference to Exhibit (10) of the Company's Form 10-Q
                          for the quarter ended September 30, 1994.

               S.   (i)   Amended and Restated Umbrella Agreement between
                          Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated June 26, 1991 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 13 of HC
                          Investments, Inc.'s and Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4
                          to Schedule 13D dated July 16, 1991.

                    (ii)  Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement between
                          Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated June 26, 1991 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 of HC
                          Investments, Inc.'s and Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4
                          to Schedule 13D dated July 16, 1991.

                    (iii) Amended and Restated ROW Purchase Agreement between
                          Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated June 26, 1991 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (7) of the
                          Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 11,
                          1991.

                    (iv)  Amended and Restated Stockholder's Agreement between
                          Henkel KGaA and Ecolab Inc. dated June 26, 1991 -
                          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 15 of HC
                          Investments, Inc.'s and Henkel KGaA's Amendment No. 4
                          to Schedule 13D dated July 16, 1991.

               T.   Agreement and Plan of Merger among Ecolab Inc., EKH, Inc. I,
                    EKH, Inc. II, EKH, Inc. III, Kay Chemical Company, Kay
                    Chemical International, Inc. and Kay Europe, Inc. dated
                    November 2, 1994 - Incorporated by reference

                                     - 25 -



                    to Exhibit (2) of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
                    dated December 7, 1994.

           (11)     Computation of Primary and Fully Diluted Earnings Per Share.

           (13)     Those portions of the Company's Annual Report to
                    Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994 which are
                    incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV hereof.

           (21)     List of Subsidiaries as of March 9, 1995.

           (23)A.   Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. to Incorporation by
                    Reference at page 29 hereof is filed as a part hereof.

               B.   Consent of KPMG Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft
                    Aktiengesellschaft.

           (24)     Powers of Attorney.

           (27)     The Financial Data Schedule for the year ended December 31,
                    1994, was previously filed with the financial statements for
                    that year which were included in the Company's Current
                    Report on Form 8-K dated February 27, 1995, and is omitted
                    from this filing pursuant to Item 601(c)(11) of Regulation
                    S-K.


                  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

Included in the preceding list of exhibits are the following management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements:

Exhibit No.    Description
-----------    -----------
  (10)A.       Ecolab Inc. 1977 Stock Incentive Plan.

  (10)B.       Ecolab Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan.

  (10)C.       1988 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.

  (10)D.       1995 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.

  (10)E.       Non-Employee Director Stock-For-Retainer Plan.

  (10)G.       Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (1984).

                                     - 26 -



Exhibit No.    Description
-----------    -----------

  (10)H.       Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (1986).

  (10)I.       Ecolab Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan.

  (10)J.       Ecolab Executive Death Benefits Plan.

  (10)K.       Ecolab Executive Long-Term Disability Plan.

  (10)L.       Ecolab Executive Financial Counseling Plan.

  (10)M.       Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.

  (10)N.       Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan.

  (10)O.       Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan.

  (10)P.       The Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for Non-Qualified
               Benefit Plans.

  (10)Q.       Ecolab Management Performance Incentive Plan.

  (10)R.       Severance Agreement between Pierson M. Grieve and the Company.


III.  Reports on Form 8-K:

      The Company filed two Current Reports on Form 8-K, dated November 2, 1994
      and December 7, 1994, during the quarter ended December 31, 1994,
      reporting, respectively:  (i) its agreement to acquire by merger Kay
      Chemical Company, Kay Chemical International, Inc. and Kay Europe, Inc.
      (the "Kay Companies"),  privately held manufacturers and marketers of
      janitorial cleaning and sanitizing products, and to account for the
      transaction as a pooling of interests; and (ii) the closing of the merger
      with the Kay Companies and the issuance of approximately 4.5 million
      shares of the Company's Common Stock.  Subsequent to the quarter the
      Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated February 27, 1995, to
      file:  (i) consolidated financial statements for the Company for the
      years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992; and (ii) to file a
      condensed consolidated statement of income reflecting post-merger
      unaudited consolidated operations of the Company and the Kay Companies
      for the one-month period ended January 31, 1995.

                                     - 27 -

 

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Ecolab Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 14th day of March, 1995.

                                   ECOLAB INC.
                                   (Registrant)



                                   By /s/ Allan L. Schuman
                                      ------------------------------------
                                      Allan L. Schuman, President
                                      and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Ecolab Inc. and in
the capacities indicated, on the 14th day of March, 1995.



/s/ Allan L. Schuman               President and Chief Executive
----------------------------       Officer (Principal Executive
Allan L. Schuman                   Officer and Director)


/s/ Michael E. Shannon             Vice Chairman, Chief Financial
----------------------------       and Administrative Officer
Michael E. Shannon                 (Principal Financial Officer
                                   and Director)


/s/ Arthur E. Henningsen, Jr.      Vice President and Controller
-----------------------------      (Principal Accounting Officer)
Arthur E. Henningsen, Jr.



/s/ Kenneth A. Iverson             Directors
----------------------------
Kenneth A. Iverson
as attorney-in-fact for
Ruth S. Block, Russell G. Cleary,
John H. Dasburg, Pierson M. Grieve,
James J. Howard, Jerry W. Levin,
Reuben F. Richards, Richard L. Schall,
Roland Schulz, Philip L. Smith,
Hugo Uyterhoeven, and Albrecht Woeste

                                     - 28 -
 

                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                         ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
of Ecolab Inc.

     Our report on the consolidated financial statements of Ecolab Inc. has been
incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from the Annual Report to
Shareholders of Ecolab Inc. for the year ended December 31, 1994, on page 45
therein.  In connection with our audits of such financial statements, we have
also audited the related financial statement schedule listed in the index on
page 20 of this Form 10-K.

     In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.

                                   /s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
                                   COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.



Saint Paul, Minnesota
February 27, 1995




                      CONSENT TO INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE

     We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
on Form S-8 of Ecolab Inc. (Registration Nos. 2-60010; 2-74944; 33-1664; 33-
41828; 2-90702; 33-18202; 33-55986; 33-56101; 33-26241; 33-34000; 33-56151;
33-39228; 33-56125; 33-55984; 33-60266; and 33-65364) and the Registration
Statement on Form S-3 of Ecolab Inc. (Registration No. 33-57197) of our reports
dated February 27, 1995 on our audits of the consolidated financial statements
and the related financial statement schedule of Ecolab Inc. as of December 31,
1994, 1993 and 1992, and for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
which reports are included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

                                   /s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
                                   COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.



Saint Paul, Minnesota
March 14, 1995

                                     - 29 -



                SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                                   ECOLAB INC.
                                 (In Thousands)






                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS






The Board of Directors
Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture


We have audited the combined financial statements of Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture
as listed in the accompanying index. In connection with our audit of the
combined financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement
schedules as listed in the accompanying index. These combined financial
statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Joint
Venture's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
combined financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with German generally accepted auditing
standards which in all material respects are similar to auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.




                                      - 2 -


In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Henkel-Ecolab
Joint Venture as of November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for the periods beginning December 1, 1993, 1992
and 1991, and ended November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Also in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered in relation
to the basic combined financial statements taken as whole, present fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.



Dusseldorf, Germany, January 19, 1995


KPMG Deutsche Treuhand-Gesellschaft
Aktiengesellschaft
Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft


/s/Dr. Kuhr                   /s/Haas


Dr. Kuhr                      Haas
Wirtschaftsprufer             Wirtschaftsprufer




HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE


INDEX TO COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 1994,
NOVEMBER 30, 1993 AND  NOVEMBER 30, 1992
_____________________________________________________________________________

Combined Statements of Income
Combined Balance Sheets
Combined Statements of Cash Flows
Combined Statements of Equity
Notes to the Combined Financial Statements
Financial Statement Schedules
     Schedule I          Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
     Schedule II         Property, Plant and Equipment
     Schedule III        Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization
                         of Property, Plant, and Equipment




HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE


COMBINED STATEMENTS OF INCOME






Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture

Combined Balance Sheets





HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE

COMBINED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS






HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE

COMBINED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY






1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

On July 1, 1991, Henkel KGaA (Henkel) and Ecolab, Inc. (Ecolab) formed a joint
venture of their respective European institutional and industrial hygiene
businesses.

Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement dated June
26, 1991 (Joint Venture Agreement), Henkel and Ecolab have joint control over
the activities of the Joint Venture. The Joint Venture Agreement also provides
that both partners will share an equal economic interest in the profits or
losses of the Joint Venture.

The financial statements are presented on a combined basis as each Joint Venture
entity is owned beneficially by identical shareholders or their wholly owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany or affiliated company accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in combination. The Joint Venture's fiscal
year end has been designated as November 30.

The financial statements are presented on the basis of generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

The accounts of all foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are generally measured
using local currency as the functional currency. For those operations, assets
and liabilities are translated into German Marks at period-end exchange rates.
Income statement accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange
prevailing during the period. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from such
translation are excluded from net earnings and accumulated in a separate
component of combined equity. Gains and losses from foreign currency
transactions are included in the related income statement category.

The Joint Venture enters into foreign currency forward contracts and options to
hedge specific foreign currency exposures. Gains and losses on these contracts
are deferred and recognized as part of the specific transaction hedged or
included in other expenses, principally interest expense, net. The cash flows
from such contracts are classified in the same category as the transaction
hedged in the Combined Statement of Cash Flows.

CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months
or less when purchased. Interest income for the period totalled TDM 3,877 in
1994, TDM 4,976 in 1993 and TDM 7,684 in 1992.

INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The method of determining
cost varies between the First-in First-out method, and the average cost method.




INVESTMENT IN AFFILIATED COMPANY

Investment in the common stock of one affiliated company is accounted for by the
equity method. The excess of cost of this affiliate over the Company's share of
its net assets at the acquisition date is being amortized on a straight-line
basis over 10 years.

The investment in an affiliated company consists of 33 percent of the common
stock of Comac SpA, Verona. The unamortized portion of the excess of cost over
the Joint Venture's share of net assets of Comac amounts to TDM 5,444 at
November 30, 1994, TDM  6,192 at November 30, 1993 and TDM 6,943 at November 30,
1992 The market value of the investment cannot be determined.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment are stated at original cost.  Merchandise
equipment consists primarily of various systems for dispensing cleaning and
sanitizing products. Depreciation and amortization are charged to operations
using the straight-line and declining balance methods over the following
estimated useful lives:

Buildings and improvements              8 to 40 years
Machinery and equipment                 3 to 20 years
Furniture, fixtures and equipment       3 to 16 years

Leasehold improvements are amortized over a period which is the lesser of the
useful life of the asset or the remaining term of the associated lease.
Betterments, renewals and extraordinary repairs that extend the life of the
asset are capitalized; other repairs and maintenance are expensed. The cost and
accumulated depreciation applicable to the assets retired are removed from the
accounts and any gain or loss credited or charged to income.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets primarily consist of amounts by which cost of acquisitions
exceeded the values assigned to net tangible assets. These assets are amortized
over their estimated lives, periods from 3 to 10 years. Total amortization of
all intangible assets amounted to TDM 6,407, TDM 4,283 in 1993 and TDM 2,467 in
1992.




HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE


2. BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION








3. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Joint Venture has entered into a variety of contractual arrangements,
including those discussed in the following paragraphs for the supply of
products, the performance of general and administrative services and the
transfer of technology.

Certain Joint Venture entities purchase institutional and industrial hygiene
products (primarily finished goods inventory) from Henkel and its subsidiaries
under a variety of supply agreements. The terms of these agreements require
these entities to purchase specified quantities as defined by an annual supply
plan submitted to the related manufacturing facility.  Product purchases are
priced on the basis of costs incurred and amounted to TDM 259,882 in 1994, TDM
278,693 in 1993 and TDM 319,913 in 1992.

Henkel also provides certain Joint Venture entities with elective services which
include, but are not limited to General Administration, Payroll Administration,
Accounting, Research and Development. The cost of services are charged by Henkel
on a monthly basis and may not reflect the costs which the Joint Venture would
incur if it were necessary to procure such services from outside sources or if
such services were performed internally by the Joint Venture. Fees paid by the
Joint Venture in consideration for these services amounted to TDM 20,326 in
1994, TDM 23,353 in 1993 and TDM 34,063 in 1992.

Royalty payments are shared equally by both parent companies based upon a
technology transfer agreement which provides for the payment of royalties as a
percentage of third party sales. Royalty expense related to this technology
transfer agreement amounted to TDM 31,874 in 1994, TDM 36,460 in 1993 and TDM
33,034 in 1992.

The Joint Venture has entered into agreements with Henkel under which the Joint
Venture can both borrow from and lend to Henkel both on an over-draft basis and
through short term loans of more than 3 months. There is currently no maximum
level of borrowing specified under this agreement. The interest rate basis for
both arrangements is the London Interbank Offering Rate (interest rate for
German Marks overdrafts 5.75 % per November 30, 1994 and 5.32 % for 3 month
short term German Marks loans per November 30, 1994); on overdrafts,
approximately between 0.4 - 1.5 percentage point is paid to compensate Henkel
for administration costs.

At November 30, 1994 the Joint Venture had borrowed TDM 63,810, from Henkel
Group Companies, TDM 75,910 in 1993 and TDM 79,735 in 1992. The loans receivable
from Henkel Group Companies had totalled TDM 38,140 in 1994, TDM 12,297 in 1993
and TDM 15,937 in 1992. The fair values of intercompany loans receivable and
payable approximate book value.

Interest expense to related companies totalled TDM 6,304 in the year ended
November 30, 1994, TDM 9,819 in 1993 and TDM 12,418 in 1992. Interest income
from related companies amounted to TDM 1,989 for the year ended November 30,
1994, TDM 1,503 in 1993 and TDM 5,389 in 1992.




4. INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes totalled TDM 36,287, compared to November 30,
1993 TDM 35,966 and November 30, 1992 TDM 28,613. The net deferred taxes
included in the provision for income taxes for 1994 were TDM 1,993 credit and
for 1993 TDM 2,770 credit, whereas in prior years they were insignificant.

Effective December 1, 1992, the Joint Venture adopted the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards of No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes" (FAS 109). FAS 109 requires a change from the deferred to the asset and
liability method of computing deferred income taxes. Under the asset and
liability method, deferred income taxes are recognized to reflect the tax
consequences on future years of temporary differences between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their financial reporting amounts, based on enacted
tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the
differences are expected to affect taxable income. Income tax expense is the tax
payable for the year and the change during the year in deferred tax assets and
liabilities.

The cumulative effect of this change in accounting principle as of December 1,
1992 amounted to TDM 9,771. Prior years' financial statements were not restated.

The components of the Joint Venture's overall net deferred tax asset at November
30, 1994, at November 30, 1993 and at December 1, 1992 are as follows:






At November 30, 1994, the Joint Venture had net foreign operating loss
carryforwards for tax purposes of approximately TDM 17,847 compared to November
30, 1993 to TDM 16,577 and compared to TDM 15,822 as at December 1, 1992. A
significant portion of these losses have an indefinite carryforward period; the
remaining losses have expiration dates up to five years. As of November 30, 1994
and 1993 the tax benefits of the loss carryforwards have been reserved 100% in
Great Britain, 80% in Switzerland and 20% in Italy. As at December 1, 1992 all
loss carryforwards had been reserved 100%. The changes in the valuation
allowance were made due to turnarounds in the profitability of the Joint Venture
companies in the respective countries.

In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is
dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in
which those temporary differences become deductible. Management considers the
scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income,
and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon the level of
historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the
periods which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is
more likely than not the Joint Venture will realize the benefits of these
deductible differences, net of the existing valuation allowances at November 30,
1994.

A reconciliation of the statutory German trade tax and federal corporate income
tax rate to the effective income tax rate was:



The deferred taxes refundable to parent reflect the Joint Venture Agreement in
which the partners also agreed that all tax benefits realized after the
formation of the Joint Venture should be refunded to the respective parents if
the benefits relate to temporary differences that originated in periods prior to
the formation of the Joint Venture. The amount refundable in 1993 covers the
period from July 1, 1991 to November 30, 1993.

In 1994, the tax payments were TDM 21,368, in 1993 TDM 29,846 and in 1992 TDM
17,949.




5. RETIREMENT PLANS

The Joint Venture's German entities have noncontributory defined benefit pension
plans to provide pension benefits to substantially all eligible employees.
Employees of countries outside of Germany participate in various local plans,
principally contributory plans.

Benefits for the German plans are based upon salary and years of service. The
funding of these pension plans is not a common practice as funding provides no
economic (tax) benefit.

A summary of the components of net periodic pension cost for the German plans
for the twelve months ended November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992 follows (TDM):



The status of the employee pension benefit plans for Germany at November 30,
1994, 1993 and 1992 is summarized below (TDM):



The following assumptions have been used to develop net periodic pension expense
and the actuarial present value of projected benefit obligations:






The Joint Venture also sponsors other defined benefit plans, defined
contribution plans and participation in government-sponsored programs in certain
European countries. Expenses under these plans amounted to approximately TDM
13,433 for the twelve months ended November 30, 1994, TDM 12,863 in 1993 and TDM
5,748 in 1992.

Other Joint Venture-specific savings plans, post-retirement and post-employment
benefit plans requiring contribution by the Joint Venture are not material.





6. TOTAL INDEBTEDNESS


Short Term Debt

As of November 30, 1994 short term debt totalled TDM 19,256  compared to
November 30, 1993 TDM 45,505 and compared to November 30, 1992 TDM 37,226,
generally in overdraft facilities with interest rates based on local money
market rates. As of November 30, 1994 the three main balances are in Italian
Lira in the equivalent amount of TDM 5,433 at an interest rate of 8.5 % p.a., in
Spanish Peseta in the equivalent amount of TDM 2,414 at an interest rate of 5.45
% p.a. and in French Franc in the equivalent amount of TDM 2,410 at an interest
rate of 5.72 % p.a..


Long term debt




Of the total long term debt amount, the equivalent of TDM 6,454 is borrowed in
Danish Krona at an average interest rate of 10.19 % p.a.. As of November 30,
1994, the aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt for the next five years
were:

1995 - TDM 727                1996 - TDM   705
1997 - TDM 638                1998 - TDM   638
1999 - TDM 638          after 1999 - TDM 3,902

Interest expense related to all debt was TDM 4,584 in 1994, compared to November
30, 1993 TDM 6,700 and compared to November 30, 1992 TDM 13,479. No significant
differences existed between interest expense and interest paid.

The fair value of short and long term debt approximates the book value.





7. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

The Joint Venture operates internationally, giving rise to exposure to market
risks from changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Derivative
financial instruments are utilized by the Joint Venture to reduce certain of
these risks, as explained in this note. The Joint Venture does not hold or issue
financial instruments for trading purposes. The Joint Venture is exposed to
credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to
financial instruments, but it does not expect any counterparties to fail to meet
their obligations given their high credit ratings.

a) Notional Amounts and Credit Exposures of Derivatives

The notional amounts of derivatives summarized in section b) do not represent
amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of the exposure of
the Joint Venture through its use of derivatives. The amounts exchanged are
calculated on the basis of the notional amounts and the other terms of the
derivatives, which relate to exchange rates.

b) Foreign Exchange Risk Management

The Joint Venture enters into various types of foreign exchange contracts in
managing its foreign exchange risk, as indicated in
the following table (TDM):



The primary purpose of foreign exchange contracts is to hedge various
intercompany loans. The Joint Venture also enters to a limited extent into
forward exchange contracts and options to hedge certain existing and anticipated
future net foreign exchange exposures. The anticipated future foreign exchange
exposure of the Joint Venture is the total of the net balances of all known and
planned incoming and outgoing payments of the Joint Venture's companies in
foreign currencies during a 12 months time horizon.
The table below summarizes by major currency the contractual amounts of the
Joint Venture's forward exchange and option contracts in German Marks. Foreign
currency amounts are translated at rates current at the reporting date. The
"buy" amounts represent the German Marks equivalent of commitments to purchase
foreign currencies, and the "sell" amounts represent the German Marks equivalent
of commitments to sell foreign currencies (TDM):







c) Fair Value of Off Balance Sheet Financial Instruments

The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair values of the Joint
Venture's off balance sheet financial instruments at November 30, 1994. The fair
value is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale
(TDM):







8. RESEARCH EXPENDITURES

Research expenditures which relate to the development of new products and
processes, including significant improvements and refinements to existing
products, were DM 34.1 million in 1994, DM 28.3 million in 1993 and DM 32.9
million in 1992.






9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Joint Venture has a number of operating lease agreements primarily involving
motor vehicles, computer and other office equipment. The following is a schedule
by year of the future minimum lease payments required under the operating leases
that have initial or remaining noncancellable lease terms in excess of one year
as of November 30, 1994 (TDM):



Rent expense for the twelve month period ended November 30, 1994, was
approximately TDM 16,372, compared to November 30, 1993 approximately TDM 13,415
and compared to November 30, 1992 approximately TDM 10,341.

The Joint Venture is subject to lawsuits and claims arising out of the conduct
of its business, including those relating to commercial transactions and
environmental safety. As an integral part of the Joint Venture agreement, Henkel
and Ecolab have provided certain representations and warranties against future
expenditures arising from operations prior to July 1, 1991.

A subsidiary of the Joint Venture is named in an environmental legal action
related to the conduct of its business prior to the formation of the Joint
Venture on July 1, 1991. Based on the facts currently known to the Joint
Venture, and after consultation with Legal Counsel, management believes that the
Joint Venture is indemnified against any potential liability arising from such
action under the terms and conditions of the Amended and Restated Umbrella
Agreement dated June 26, 1991, by and between Henkel and Ecolab.

Therefore, the Joint Venture does not expect material adverse effects on its
financial position, results of operations or liquidity from the outcome of these
losses and claims.

The Joint Venture's customers are concentrated in Europe and operate in the
industrial and institutional hygiene business. No single customer accounted for
a significant amount of the Joint Venture's sales in 1994, 1993 and 1992, and
there were no significant accounts receivable from a single customer at November
30, 1994, 1993 and 1992. The Joint Venture establishes an allowance for doubtful
accounts based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers,
historical trends and other information.






HENKEL-ECOLAB JOINT VENTURE






HENKEL-ECOLAB  JOINT VENTURE





HENKEL-ECOLAB  JOINT VENTURE

  Schedule III - Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of Property, Plant,
                  and  Equipment
              (Thousands)







                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Report.



                                     - 62 -


