
10-K405
TRACTOR SUPPLY COMPANY FORM 10-K405 12-28-96



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                ----------------
                                   FORM 10-K


(Mark One)
[X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended  December 28, 1996
                                              -------------------- 

                                       OR
[ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from            to
                                                   -----------    ------------

                       Commission file number   000-23314
                                              -------------
                             TRACTOR SUPPLY COMPANY
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)


            Delaware                                         13-3139732
- - ---------------------------------                   ----------------------------
(State or Other Jurisdiction of                           (I.R.S. Employer
Incorporation or Organization)                          Identification No.)

320 Plus Park Boulevard,
Nashville, Tennessee                                            37217
- - ---------------------------------                   ----------------------------
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                      (Zip Code)

Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code:       (615) 366-4600
                                                    ----------------------------
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                         Common Stock, $.008 par value
- - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.     YES    X      NO
                                                   ---         ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.  [  X  ]

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing price of the Common Stock on The Nasdaq
National Market on January 31, 1997, was $61,323,399.  For purposes of this
response, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers,
and beneficial owners of 5% or more of its Common Stock are the affiliates of
the registrant.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes
of common stock as of the latest practicable date.

              Class                         Outstanding at January 31, 1997
- - ----------------------------------        ------------------------------------
  Common Stock, $.008 par value                        8,718,000


                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on April 24, 1997 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K.  Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996 are incorporated by
reference into Parts II and IV of this Form 10-K.




                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

Tractor Supply Company, a Delaware corporation  ("TSC" or the "Company"), is a
specialty retailer which supplies the daily farming and maintenance needs of
its target customers: hobby, part-time and full-time farmers, as well as
suburban customers, contractors and tradesmen.  The Company operates the
largest number of retail farm stores in the United States.  TSC's 208 stores,
located in 24 states, typically range in size from 12,000 to 14,000 square feet
of inside space and utilize at least as many square feet of outside space.
Stores are located in rural communities and in the outlying areas of large
cities where farming is a significant factor in the local economy.

The Company meets the daily farming and maintenance needs of its target
customers with a comprehensive selection of farm maintenance products (fencing,
tractor parts and accessories, agricultural spraying equipment and tillage
parts); animal products (specialty feeds, supplements, medicines, veterinary
supplies and livestock feeders); general maintenance products (air compressors,
welders, generators, pumps, plumbing and tools); lawn and garden products
(riding mowers, tillers and fertilizers); light truck equipment; work clothing
and other products.  The Company does not sell large tractors, combines, bulk
chemicals or bulk fertilizers.  The Company's merchandising strategy combines
this comprehensive product selection with strong inventory support.

The Company was founded in 1938 as a catalog mail order tractor parts supplier.
In 1978, Fuqua Industries, Inc. acquired the Company, and in 1982 Fuqua, in
turn, sold the Company to a group of investors, including three members of the
Company's current senior management team, all three of whom are principal
stockholders.  Between the acquisition in 1982 and 1996, the Company's sales
have increased from $122.5 million to $449.0 million and the Company has opened
101 stores and closed 17 stores.

Seasonality and Weather

The Company's business is highly seasonal.  Historically, the Company's sales
and profits have been the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters of
each year due to the farming industry's planting and harvesting seasons and the
sale of seasonal products.  The Company has typically operated at a net loss in
the first fiscal quarter of each year.  Unseasonable weather and excessive
rain, drought, or early or late frosts may also affect the Company's sales. The
Company believes, however, that the impact of adverse weather conditions is
somewhat mitigated by the geographic dispersion of its stores.

Business Strategy

The Company believes its sales and earnings growth has resulted from the
focused execution of its business strategy, which includes the following key
components:

   Market Niche.   The Company has identified a specialized market niche
   supplying the daily farming and maintenance needs of hobby, part-time and
   full-time farmers.  By focusing its product mix on these core customers, the
   Company believes it has differentiated itself from general merchandise, home
   center and other specialty retailers.

   Customer Service.   The Company's number one priority is customer service.
   It offers its customers a high level of in-store service through motivated,
   well trained, technically proficient Store Associates.  The Company believes
   the ability of its Store Associates to provide friendly, responsive,
   technical assistance is valued by its customers and helps to promote strong
   customer loyalty and repeat shopping.  TSC's commitment to customer service
   is further enhanced by its "satisfaction guaranteed" policy and its special
   order program.






   Technology.   Management strives to improve operating efficiencies and
   reduce costs through the use of modern technologies.  The Company utilizes
   an integrated computerized inventory management and point-of-sale system
   that permits the entire store network to communicate with the Company's
   distribution centers and its management headquarters.  The Company believes
   that this integrated system results in lower inventory carrying costs,
   improved in-stock positions and enhanced inventory control, as well as
   management and purchasing efficiencies.

   Store Locations.  The Company's strategy is to locate its stores in rural
   communities and outlying areas of large cities where farming is a
   significant factor in the local economy.  The Company believes it has
   developed a sophisticated, proven methodology to select its new store sites.

   Product Selection.   The Company offers a comprehensive selection of high
   quality, nationally recognized brand name and private label products,
   focused principally on the needs of the hobby, part-time and full-time
   farmer.  The Company seeks to offer an extensive assortment of merchandise
   in specialized products.  The Company's full line of product offerings is
   supported by a strong in-stock inventory position.  An average store
   displays approximately 12,000 different products.

   Pricing.   The Company utilizes a "low prices everyday" strategy to
   consistently offer its products at competitive prices.  The Company monitors
   prices at competing stores and adjusts its prices as necessary.  The Company
   believes that by avoiding a "sale" oriented marketing strategy, it is
   attracting customers on a regular basis rather than only in response to
   sales.

   Vendor Partnering.   The Company has established close working relationships
   with many of its principal vendors to manage stock levels, develop new
   products, plan promotions and design merchandise displays.  The Company
   intends to expand its vendor partnering strategy to include most of its
   other key vendors.

   Advertising.   To generate store traffic and position TSC as a destination
   store, the Company promotes broad selections of merchandise with color
   circulars distributed by direct mail and as newspaper inserts.  The Company
   also runs periodic special events promoted through local flyers, circulars
   and radio advertising.

   Store Environment.   TSC's stores are open, clean, bright and offer a
   pleasant atmosphere with disciplined product presentation, attractive
   displays, both inside and outside the store, and efficient check-out
   procedures.  The Company endeavors to staff its stores with courteous,
   highly motivated, knowledgeable Store Associates in order to provide a
   friendly, enjoyable shopping experience.

Growth Strategy

The Company's growth strategy is to increase sales and profitability at
existing stores through continuing improvements in product mix and operating
efficiencies and through new store openings and relocations.  Since the
beginning of fiscal 1992, the Company has opened 63 new stores and relocated
16.  Of these 79 stores, 52 have been open more than one year and have
generated average net sales that are approximately 26.4% per annum greater than
those of existing stores.  During this period, the Company has also closed six
stores (excluding relocations).  Management believes that substantial
opportunities exist for the opening of new stores to achieve greater
penetration in existing markets and to expand into new markets.

The Company plans to open 25 new stores in 1997, 28 in 1998 and additional
stores thereafter.  As of January 31, 1997, the Company has opened four new
stores in Seguin, Texas; Chillicothe, Ohio; Asheville, North Carolina; and
Campbellsville, Kentucky and approximately eight additional stores are
scheduled to open in the first quarter of 1997.

The Company's strategy is to lease its new stores.  Assuming that new stores
are leased, the estimated cash required to open a new store is approximately
$800,000 to $1,000,000, the majority of which is for initial inventory and
capital expenditures, principally leasehold improvements, fixtures and
equipment, and the balance of which is for store opening expenses.  The Company
may selectively purchase individual store locations or small chains of stores
if opportunities arise and management believes the store sites are located in
prime real estate locations.






The Company plans to relocate approximately one store in 1997 and an average of
one or two additional stores each year over the next several years.   Store
relocations are typically undertaken to move small, older stores to full-size
formats in prime retail areas.  The cash required to complete a store
relocation typically ranges from $250,000 to $500,000 depending on whether the
Company is responsible for any renovation or remodeling costs.  The Company has
experienced average sales increases in excess of 30% in the year subsequent to
relocation for stores relocated over the past five years.

The Company plans to extensively remodel an average of one or two of its strong
performing stores each year over the next several years, none of which are
scheduled for 1997.  The estimated cash required to complete a major remodeling
typically ranges from $150,000 to $400,000.  The Company also plans to perform
minor remodelings of its stores on an on-going basis to ensure overall Company
physical facility standards are maintained.  The estimated cash required to
complete a minor remodeling typically ranges from $25,000 to $75,000.

Store Environment and Merchandising

The Company's stores are designed and managed to create a pleasant environment,
maximize sales and operating efficiencies and make shopping an enjoyable
experience.  The Company's stores are clean, open and bright.  The average
Company store has approximately 12,200 square feet of inside selling space.
The Company typically utilizes at least 12,000 square feet of outside space
from which it merchandises certain farm-related and lawn and garden products.
Visual displays inside and outside can be changed easily for seasonal products
and promotions and space can be reallocated easily among departments.

The following chart indicates the average percentages of sales represented by
each of the major product categories during fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994:




The Company's stores carry a consistent merchandise mix, tailored to some
extent to specific regional needs and store size, and stock an average of
12,000 products.  The Company's stores carry a wide selection of quality,
nationally recognized name brand merchandise.  The Company also markets private
label merchandise under the Huskee, Traveller, Harvest Supreme, Retriever and
Dumor registered trademarks.  Management believes that selling these nationally
recognized brands next to the Company's own high quality, private label
merchandise offers its customers a range of products at various price points
and helps build customer loyalty.  The Company believes that it has also
increased sales by distributing to in-store customers an easy-reference "blue
book" catalog containing the descriptions and prices for thousands of its
products.

The Company uses a "power merchandising" selling strategy.  Under this
strategy, selected merchandise is given special emphasis through prominent
displays, a comprehensive product line and strong inventory support.

Customer Service

The Company's number one priority is customer service.  Store Associates are
the key to quality customer service, and the Company seeks to provide them with
decision-making authority and training to enable them to meet customer needs.

Store Associates are authorized to special order virtually any non-stocked item
a customer may need.  The Company also has a "satisfaction guaranteed" policy:
if customers are not satisfied, Store Associates are authorized to offer to
repair or exchange the product, or offer store credits or refunds, irrespective
of when the product was purchased.  The Company believes that by providing
these services it improves customer satisfaction, builds customer loyalty and
generates repeat business.






The Company devotes considerable resources to training its Store Associates,
often in cooperation with its vendors. The Company's training programs include
(i) a full management training program for manager trainees which covers all
aspects of the Company's operations, (ii) product knowledge video tapes
covering over 175 products, (iii) semi-annual retail training skills classes,
(iv) semi-annual store managers meetings with vendor product presentations, (v)
vendor sponsored in-store training programs and (vi) ongoing product
information updates from its management headquarters.  The Company seeks to
hire and train Store Associates with farming backgrounds.

The Company provides financial incentives to its district managers, store
managers, manager trainees, sales managers and sales clerks through incentive
compensation programs based on the achievement of sales and/or profitability
goals.  The Company believes that its incentive compensation programs increase
the motivation and overall performance of its Store Associates and the
Company's ability to attract and retain qualified personnel.

Purchasing and Distribution

The Company offers an extensive selection of farm maintenance and other
specialty products.  The Company has established arrangements with certain of
its principal vendors to develop new products, plan promotions, review
marketing strategies, manage stock levels and develop merchandise displays.
The Company is pursuing similar arrangements with other key vendors.  The
Company's business is not dependent upon any one vendor or particular group of
vendors.  The Company purchases its products from approximately 2,000 vendors,
the five largest of which accounted for less than 20% of the Company's total
purchases in fiscal 1996 and none of which accounted for more than 10% of the
Company's purchases during such year.  The Company has no long-term contractual
commitments with any of its vendors, has not experienced difficulty in
obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for its products and
believes that adequate sources of supply exist at substantially similar costs
for substantially all of its products.  Approximately 750 vendors participate
in the Company's electronic data interchanges ("EDI") system which makes it
possible for the Company to place purchase orders electronically.  The Company
is working to expand the number of vendors who transmit invoices to the Company
and increase the amount of sales history transmitted from the Company, all
through EDI.  The Company's merchandise purchasing is centrally managed.

The Company operates a 339,000 square foot distribution center in Indianapolis,
Indiana and a 144,000 square foot distribution center in Omaha, Nebraska, from
which it serviced approximately 126 stores and 82 stores, respectively, at
December 28, 1996.  The Company also intends to utilize smaller, strategically
located "cross-dock" facilities to support the main distribution centers and
transportation system network.  The first such cross-dock facility, a 50,000
square foot distribution center located in Waco, Texas, was opened in the fall
of 1996 and supports the Company's stores located in the Southwest region of
the country.  The Company's current plans call for the opening of a similar
cross-dock facility, a 28,000 square foot distribution center to be located in
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, in 1997 to support the Company's growth and
expansion plans in the Southeast region of the country.  In fiscal 1996, the
Company received approximately 67% of its merchandise through these
distribution facilities, with the balance delivered directly to the Company's
stores.  The main distribution centers ship to each store at least twice a week
during peak periods through a dedicated contract carrier. The Company is
continuously evaluating its long-term strategic plan with respect to its
distribution centers and transportation operations.

Management Information and Control Systems

The Company has invested considerable resources in sophisticated management
information and control systems to ensure superior customer service, support
the purchase and distribution of merchandise and improve operating
efficiencies.  The management information and control systems include a
point-of-sale system, a purchase order management system, a replenishment
system, a merchandise planning system and full sales, inventory and gross
margin management reporting systems. These systems are fully integrated and
track merchandise from order through sale.  All operational data from these
systems is also fully integrated with the Company's financial systems.

The Company is constantly assessing and upgrading its management information
and control systems to support its growth, reduce and control costs, improve
internal controls and operating efficiencies and facilitate better
decision-making.  In 1996, the Company completed the installation of an
advanced point-of-sale store information system which has reduced customer
check-out time, improved inventory control and enhanced overall productivity.
The Company also completed the installation of several more advanced financial
systems in 1996 (and plans to complete the installation of another major
financial system by the end of the second fiscal quarter of 1997) which are




expected to improve financial reporting and controls, enhance administrative
efficiencies and provide the flexibility to support the Company's growth plans.
The estimated cost of these new systems was approximately $7.0 million to $7.5
million for the 154 stores included in the original installation plan.  The
estimated incremental cost of completing the installation of these new systems
is approximately $2.0 million, which reflects 54 additional stores and other
enhancements, such as scanning, not originally planned.

Competition

The Company operates in a highly competitive market.  While the Company
believes it has successfully differentiated itself from general merchandise,
home center and other specialty retailers, the Company faces select competition
from these entities, as well as competition from independently owned retail
farm stores, several privately-held regional farm store chains and farm
cooperatives.  Some of these competitors are units of large national or
regional chains that have substantially greater financial and other resources
than the Company.

Management and Employees

As of December 28, 1996, the Company employed approximately 1,300 full-time and
approximately 1,200 part-time employees.  The Company also employs additional
part-time employees during peak periods.  As of such date, approximately 90
employees of the Company's two main distribution centers were covered by
collective bargaining agreements.  During 1996, the Company entered into new
collective bargaining agreements with the union memberships at the
Indianapolis, Indiana and Omaha, Nebraska distribution centers on terms and
conditions similar to those in the previous contracts.  The new collective
bargaining agreements at the Indianapolis, Indiana and Omaha, Nebraska
distribution centers expire in April 2000 and August 1999, respectively.

Management believes its district managers, store managers and other supervisory
personnel have contributed significantly to the Company's performance.
Management encourages the participation of all Store Associates in decision
making, regularly solicits input and suggestions from Store Associates and
responds to the suggestions expressed by Company employees.  Management
believes it has good relationships with its employees.

Most of the Company's senior management, district managers and store managers
were promoted to their positions from within the Company.  All members of
senior management have at least 15 years of experience with the Company.
District managers and store managers have an average length of service with the
Company of approximately 7.0 years and 6.3 years, respectively.  Management
believes internal promotions, coupled with recruitment of college graduates and
hiring of individuals with previous retail experience, will provide the
management structure necessary to support expected store growth.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

As of December 28, 1996, the Company leased its three distribution facilities
and its management headquarters, owned 74 stores (23 of which are subject to
mortgages) and leased 134 stores.  The store leases typically have initial
terms of between 10 and 15 years, with one to three renewal periods of five
years each, exercisable at the Company's option.  None of the store leases or
mortgages individually is material to the Company's operations.  The leases at
its Indianapolis, Indiana, Omaha, Nebraska and Waco, Texas distribution
facilities expire in 2000, 1999 and 1998 respectively, and the lease for its
management headquarters expires in 2007.  Eight of the Company's stores and its
management headquarters are leased from affiliated parties.  See Item 13.
"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions".






As of December 28, 1996, the Company operated 208 stores in 24 states as
follows:





ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is not a party to any legal proceedings, other than routine claims
and lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of its business.  The Company does
not believe that such claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate,
will have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.  Compliance with
federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to the
discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
protection of the environment, has not had, and is not anticipated to have, a
material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position
of the Company.  State and local regulations in the United States that are
designed to protect consumers or the environment have an increasing influence
on product claims, contents and packaging.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY-HOLDERS

No matter was submitted to a vote of the Company's security-holders during the
fourth quarter of the Company's fiscal year ended December 28, 1996.

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list is
included as an unnumbered item in Part I of this Report in lieu of being
included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on April 24, 1997.

The following is a list of the names and ages of all of the executive officers
of the registrant indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held
by each such person and each person's principal occupations and employment
during at least the past five years:










__________________

Joseph  H. Scarlett, Jr. became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company in February 1993 after having served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company since 1987.  Between 1979 and 1987, Mr. Scarlett served
as Vice President-Personnel, Senior Vice President-Administration and Executive
Vice President-Operations of the Company.  Prior to 1979, Mr. Scarlett held
operational positions, including District Supervisor and Personnel Director,
with Two Guys Discount Stores in New Jersey over a 15 year period.  Mr.
Scarlett has served as a director of the Company since 1982.  Mr. Scarlett is
currently a member of the International Mass Retail Association Board.

Gerald E. Newkirk became President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company
in February 1993 after having served as Executive Vice President of the Company
in charge of Operations and Merchandising since 1987 and as Vice President of
the Company in charge of merchandising from 1981 to 1987.  From 1979 to 1981,
Mr. Newkirk was involved with store operations, first as a District Manager and
subsequently as a Regional Vice President of the Company.  Prior to 1979, he
was a District Manager for Grossman's Lumber.  Mr. Newkirk has served as a
director of the Company since 1985.  Mr. Newkirk is currently a member of the
National FFA Foundation Sponsor Board.

Thomas O. Flood became Senior Vice President of Administration and Finance,
Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company in January 1996 after
having served as Vice President of Administration and Finance of the Company
since 1984 and as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since June 1993.  Mr.
Flood previously served as Vice President of Finance of the Company from 1982
to 1984, as Controller from 1981 to 1982 and in various financial and
management information systems capacities between 1969 and 1981.  Mr. Flood has
served as a director of the Company since 1985.

John R. Pearson became Senior Vice President of Merchandising of the Company in
January 1997 after having served as Senior Vice President of Merchandising and
Logistics of the Company since October 1993, as Vice President and General
Merchandise Manager of the Company since November 1991 and as Regional Vice
President of Operations of the Company from 1987 to 1991.  Mr. Pearson has also
held various operational positions since joining the Company in 1970.

John W. Atkins became Vice President of Farm Merchandising of the Company in
December 1996 after having served as Division Merchandise Manager of Farm
Products of the Company since July 1995 and as a Buyer of the Company since
July 1992.  From 1986 to 1992, Mr. Atkins held various positions, including
most recently Division Manager-Field & Stream with Bass Pro Shops Outdoor
World.  From 1983 to 1986, Mr. Atkins held various retail management positions
with K-Mart Corporation.

Blake A. Fohl became Vice President of Marketing of the Company in December
1996 after having served as Director of Marketing of the Company since June
1995 and as a Buyer of the Company since August 1992.  Mr. Fohl previously
served as Divisional Manager of Green Seed Company from 1989 to 1992, as a
Dairy Specialist with Purina Mills from 1986 to 1989 and as a store manager for
Southern States Cooperative from 1981 to 1986.

Lawrence Goldberg became Vice President of Logistics of the Company in 1993
after having served as Director of Distribution of the Company since October
1992.  Mr. Goldberg previously served as the Senior Vice President of
Merchandising and Marketing of Paccar Automotive Inc. from 1991 to 1992, the
General Manager of Al's Auto Supply (a subsidiary of Paccar Automotive Inc.)
from 1990 to 1991, the Director of Stores Division of Fuller O'Brien Paint
Corporation from 1988 to 1990 and the Director of Stores of Saxon Paint & Home
Care Centers from 1980 to 1988.







Leo H. Haberer has served as Vice President of Real Estate of the Company since
1989.  Prior to 1989, Mr. Haberer served as a Regional Vice President of the
Company from 1975 to 1989 and as a store manager and zone manager from 1970 to
1975.

Michael J. Kincaid became Vice President-Controller and Secretary of the
Company in January 1996 after having served as the Controller of the Company
since June 1991 and as the Secretary of the Company since May 1993.  From 1981
to 1991, Mr. Kincaid held various management and staff accounting positions
with Cole National Corporation, Revco D.S., Inc. and Price Waterhouse.

Gary M. Magoni has served as a Vice President of Operations of the Company
since 1989.  Mr. Magoni previously served as a District Manager for Gold Circle
Stores (a subsidiary of Federated Department Stores) from 1982 to 1988.

James R. McMurray became Vice President of Information Technology and Chief
Information Officer of the Company in January 1996 after having served as Vice
President of Management Information Systems of the Company since December 1994.
Mr. McMurray previously served as Vice President of Horizon Systems from July
1993 to December 1994 and as Vice President of Retail Information Systems for
LDI Corporation from June 1991 through June 1993.  From 1987 to June 1991, Mr.
McMurray served as Chairman and President of Ergonomic Systems Corporation, a
leading developer of retail information systems technology located in
Brunswick, Ohio.

Stanley L. Ruta has served as a Vice President of Operations of the Company
since March 1994.  Mr. Ruta previously served as Vice President of Store
Planning and Development and Vice President of Store Operations of Central
Tractor Farm and Family Center, Inc. from 1988 to 1994.  From 1976 to 1988, Mr.
Ruta held various other operation positions with Central Tractor Farm and
Family Center, Inc., including District Manager from 1985 to 1988.

Daisy L. Vanderlinde became Vice President of Human Resources in April 1996.
Ms. Vanderlinde previously served as Vice President - Human Resources for
Marshalls, Inc. from 1990 to 1996.  From 1979 to 1990, Ms. Vanderlinde held
various management and human resources positions, including most recently
Divisional Vice President - Human Resources, with The Broadway Stores, Inc., a
division of Carter Hawley Hale Stores, Inc.






                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's Common Stock began trading on The Nasdaq National Market on
February 18, 1994 under the symbol "TSCO".

The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of the Company's
Common Stock as reported by The Nasdaq National Market for each fiscal quarter
of the periods indicated:





As of January 31, 1997, the approximate number of record holders of the
Company's Common Stock was 61 (excluding individual participants in nominee
security position listings) and the approximate number of beneficial holders of
the Company's Common Stock was 1,500.

The Company has not declared any cash dividends on its Common Stock during the
two most recent fiscal years. The Company currently intends to retain all
earnings for future operation and expansion of its business and, therefore,
does not anticipate that any dividends will be declared on the Common Stock in
the foreseeable future.  Any future declaration of dividends will be subject to
the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and subject to the Company's
results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and other factors
deemed relevant by the Board of Directors.  In addition, the Company is
required to pay dividends on its outstanding Series B Preferred Stock before it
pays any dividends on its Common Stock.  The Company is also restricted from
paying cash dividends by the terms of the note agreement which relates to
mortgage notes on certain of its properties.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information set forth under the caption "Five Year Selected Financial and
Operating Highlights" on page 9 of the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders
for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996 is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

The information set forth under the caption "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 10 through
15 of the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
December 28, 1996 is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information set forth under the captions "Report of Independent
Accountants", "Balance Sheets", "Statements of Income", "Statement of Changes
in Stockholders' Equity", "Statements of Cash Flows", and "Notes to Financial
Statements" on pages 15 through 28 of the Company's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996 is incorporated herein
by reference.

The Company's unaudited operating results for each fiscal quarter within the
two most recent fiscal years, as set forth under the caption "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on
page 11 of the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
ended December 28, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.







                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information set forth under the captions "Election of Class III Directors
and Information Regarding Directors" and "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934" on pages 2 through 5 and 23, respectively, of
the Company's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
on April 24, 1997 is incorporated herein by reference.

The information set forth under the caption "Executive Officers of the
Registrant" in Part I of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information set forth under the captions "Board of Directors and Committees
of the Board - Compensation of Directors", "Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation", "Executive Compensation", "Summary Compensation
Table", "Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year", "Aggregated Option Exercises in
Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values", "Compensation Committee's
Report on Executive Compensation", and "Performance Graph" on pages 5, 6 and 15
through 20 of the Company's Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on April 24, 1997 is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information set forth under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" on pages 23 and 24 of the Company's Proxy
Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 24, 1997
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information set forth under the caption "Interests of Management in Certain
Transactions" on pages 21 and 22 of the Company's Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 24, 1997  is incorporated
herein by reference.








                                    PART IV










                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                       TRACTOR SUPPLY COMPANY

     Date:  March 21, 1997             By: /s/ Thomas O. Flood
                                          ------------------------
                                          Thomas O. Flood
                                          Senior Vice President -
                                          Administration
                                          and Finance, Treasurer and
                                          Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.










                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS


































- - -------------------------
 -      Filed herewith.



