10-K405


g74962e10-k405.htm

TRACTOR SUPPLY COMPANY

e10-k405


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

————————

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended

December 29 , 2001

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ____________________ to ______________________

Commission file number 000-23314

TRACTOR SUPPLY COMPANY

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

Delaware

13-3139732

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

320 Plus Park Boulevard, Nashville, Tennessee


(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code:

(615) 366-4600

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common Stock, $.008 par value

(Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
  YES    [X]                
NO     [    ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.   [X]

The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based on the closing price of the Common Stock on The Nasdaq
National Market on January 31, 2002, was $210,523,960. For purposes of this
response, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers,
and beneficial owners of 5% or more of its Common Stock are the affiliates of
the registrant.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes
of common stock as of the latest practicable date.

Class

Outstanding at January 31, 2002

Common Stock, $.008 par value

8,908,345



DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on April 18, 2002 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this Form 10-K. Portions of the Registrant’s Annual Report to
Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2001 are incorporated by
reference into Parts II and IV of this Form 10-K.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS OR INFORMATION

This Form 10-K includes certain statements that may be deemed to be
“forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements included or incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K which address activities, events or developments
that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future,
including such things as future capital expenditures (including the amount and
nature thereof), business strategy, expansion and growth of the Company’s
business and operations and other such matters are forward-looking statements.

All phases of the Company’s operations are subject to influences outside its
control. Any one, or a combination, of these factors could materially affect
the results of the Company’s operations. These factors include general economic
cycles affecting consumer spending, weather factors, operating factors
affecting customer satisfaction, consumer debt levels, pricing and other
competitive factors, the ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified
associates, the ability to identify suitable locations and negotiate favorable
lease agreements on new and relocated stores, the timing and acceptance of new
products in the stores, the mix of goods sold, the continued availability of
favorable credit sources, capital market conditions in general and the
seasonality of the Company’s business. Many of these factors have previously
been identified in filings or statements made by or on behalf of the Company.
Forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company are based on a
knowledge of its business and the environment in which it operates, but because
of the factors listed above, actual results could differ materially from those
reflected by any forward-looking statements. Consequently, all of the
forward-looking statements made are qualified by these cautionary statements
and there can be no assurance that the actual results or developments
anticipated by the Company will be realized or, even if substantially realized,
that they will have the expected consequences to or effects on the Company or
its business and operations.

PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

Tractor Supply Company, a Delaware corporation (“TSC” or the “Company”), was
founded in 1938 as a catalog mail order tractor parts supplier. In 1982, the
Company was purchased by a group of investors, including a member of the
Company’s current management team who is a significant stockholder. In 1994,
the Company made its initial public offering. Today, TSC is a specialty
retailer which supplies products for the lifestyle needs of its target
customers: hobby and part-time farmers and ranchers. The Company operates the
largest chain of retail farm and ranch stores in the United States. TSC’s 323
stores, located in 28 states, typically range in size from 12,000 to 15,000
square feet of inside selling space and utilize at least as many square feet of
outside selling space. Stores are located in rural communities and in the
outlying areas of large cities where the rural lifestyle is a significant
factor in the local economy.

The Company meets the lifestyle needs of its customers with a comprehensive
selection of livestock and pet products (specialty feeds, supplements, equine
supplies, medicines, veterinary supplies, fencing and livestock feeders);
hardware and tool products (air compressors, welders, generators, pumps,
plumbing and hand tools); seasonal products (riding mowers, tillers, lawn and
garden supplies and heaters); truck accessories and trailers (truck tool boxes,
trailers, towing accessories, tires, lubricants and batteries); clothing and
footwear; and agriculture products (tractor parts and accessories, agricultural
spraying equipment and tillage parts). The Company’s merchandising strategy
combines this comprehensive product selection with strong inventory support.



Seasonality and Weather

The Company’s business is highly seasonal. Historically, the Company’s sales
and profits have been the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters of
each year due to the sale of seasonal products. The Company typically operates
at a net loss in the first fiscal quarter of each year. Unseasonable weather,
excessive rain, drought, and early or late frosts may also affect the Company’s
sales. The Company believes, however, that the impact of adverse weather
conditions is somewhat mitigated by the geographic dispersion of its stores.

Business Strategy

The Company believes its sales and earnings growth has resulted from the
focused execution of its business strategy, which includes the following key
components:



television. In connection with these programs, the Company has retained
George Strait, a renowned country music entertainer, as its national
spokesman.

Store Environment

. TSC’s stores are open, clean, bright and offer a
pleasant atmosphere with disciplined product presentation, attractive
displays, both inside and outside the store, and efficient check-out
procedures. The Company endeavors to staff its stores with courteous,
highly motivated, knowledgeable employees in order to provide a friendly,
enjoyable shopping experience.

Growth Strategy

The Company’s current and long-term growth strategy is built on a combination
of (1) expanded geographic market presence, achieved through the opening of new
retail stores and (2) enhanced financial performance through comparable store
sales increases, achieved through aggressive merchandising programs with an
“everyday low prices” philosophy, supported by strong customer service. Since
the Company’s initial public offering in February 1994, the Company has opened
177 new retail stores (an annualized unit growth rate of 10.1%) and relocated
15. These new stores have increased the Company’s market presence in the
Southwest, primarily in Texas, and in the Southeast, primarily in Tennessee,
Kentucky, North Carolina and Florida. This expansion brings the Company’s
total store count to 323 (in 28 states) as of December 29, 2001. During this
period, the Company has also closed six stores (excluding relocations).

The Company continued its new store growth plan with an approximate 6% overall
new store unit growth in fiscal 2001. The Company has a base plan to open 25
stores in fiscal 2002 (an approximate 8% unit growth rate) and, with the
acquisition of certain real estate properties and lease rights from Quality
Stores, Inc., an additional 87 stores.

After the close of fiscal year 2001, the United States Bankruptcy Court
approved a transaction for the sale of certain assets of Quality Stores, Inc.,
the Company’s single largest national competitor. The Company purchased the
real property for 24 stores, the lease rights to 76 stores and the furniture
and fixtures from 100 stores. Total consideration, including estimated
transaction costs, was approximately $35 million. The Company may sell and
leasback 20 of the real properties and sell four properties with expected
proceeds of approximately $23 million. Alternatively, the Company may mortgage
the related properties or otherwise obtain long-term financing. The Company
plans to open 87 of the locations as new Tractor Supply stores by the middle of
fiscal 2002 and to relocate existing Tractor Supply stores in nine other
locations later in the same year. Capital expenditures to convert the stores to
the Tractor Supply format are expected to be $12 to $13 million and inventories
for the converted stores are expected to total between $55 and $60 million.
The Company believes that its cash flow from operations, borrowings available
under its Senior Credit Facility and short-term trade credit will be sufficient
to fund this expansion.

The Company’s strategy is generally to lease its new stores. Assuming that new
stores are leased, the estimated cash required to open a new store is
approximately $800,000 to $1,000,000, the majority of which is for initial
acquisition of inventory and capital expenditures, principally leasehold
improvements, fixtures and equipment, and the balance of which is for store
opening expenses.

The Company plans to relocate a total of 10 to 12 stores in fiscal 2002 and an
average of three or four additional stores each year over the next several
years. Store relocations are typically undertaken to move small, older stores
to full-size formats in prime retail areas. The cash required to complete a
store relocation typically ranges from $200,000 to $550,000 depending on
whether the Company is responsible for any renovation or remodeling costs.

The Company plans to extensively remodel an average of two or three of its
strong performing stores each year over the next several years. The estimated
cash required to complete a major remodeling typically ranges from $200,000 to
$400,000. The Company also plans to perform minor remodelings of its stores on
an on-going basis to ensure overall Company physical facility standards are
maintained. The estimated cash required to complete a minor remodeling
typically ranges from $40,000 to $80,000.



Store Environment and Merchandising

The Company’s stores are designed and managed to create a pleasant environment,
maximize sales and operating efficiencies and make shopping an enjoyable
experience. The Company’s stores are clean, open and bright. The average
Company store has approximately 13,000 square feet of inside selling space.
The Company typically utilizes at least 12,000 square feet of outside space
from which it merchandises certain farm-related and lawn and garden products.
Visual displays inside and outside can be changed easily for seasonal products
and promotions and space can be reallocated easily among departments.

The following chart indicates the average percentages of sales represented by
each of the Company’s major product categories during fiscal 2001, 2000 and
1999:

The Company’s stores carry a consistent merchandise mix, tailored to some
extent to specific regional needs and store size, and stock an average of
12,000 to 14,000 products. The Company’s stores carry a wide selection of
quality, nationally recognized, name brand merchandise. The Company also
markets private label merchandise under the Huskee, Traveller, Producer’s
Pride, Retriever and Dumor registered trademarks.

Customer Service

The Company is committed to providing superior customer service. Store
employees are the key to quality customer service, and the Company seeks to
provide them with decision-making authority and training to enable them to meet
customer needs.

The Company’s refund policy is “hassle free” if within 30 days of date of
purchase and accompanied by a receipt. However, the Company also has a
“satisfaction guaranteed” policy, such that if customers are not satisfied,
store employees are authorized, at their discretion, to offer to repair or
exchange the product, or offer store credits or refunds, irrespective of when
the product was purchased. The Company believes that by providing these
services it improves customer satisfaction, builds customer loyalty and
generates repeat business.

TSC offers a proprietary, third party credit card for individual retail
customers. In addition, TSC accepts Visa, MasterCard and Discover credit
cards.

The Company devotes considerable resources to training its store employees,
often in cooperation with its vendors. The Company’s training programs include
(i) a full management training program for manager trainees which covers all
aspects of the Company’s operations, (ii) product knowledge video tapes
produced in conjunction with over 100 of its vendors, (iii) semi-annual retail
training skills classes, (iv) semi-annual store managers meetings with vendor
product presentations, (v) vendor sponsored in-store training programs and (vi)
ongoing product information updates from the Company’s management headquarters.
The Company seeks to hire and train store employees with farming and ranching
backgrounds, with particular emphasis in general maintenance, equine and
welding.

Purchasing and Distribution

The Company offers an extensive selection of farm and ranch maintenance and
other specialty products. The Company’s business is not dependent upon any one
vendor or particular group of vendors. The Company purchases its products from
approximately 1,000 vendors, the five largest of which accounted for less than
25% of the Company’s total purchases in fiscal 2001 and one of which (MTD
Products, Inc.) accounted for more than 10% of



the Company’s purchases during such year. The Company has no material
long-term contractual commitments with any of its vendors, has not experienced
difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for its
products and believes that adequate sources of supply exist at substantially
similar costs for substantially all of its products. Over 90% of the Company’s
purchase orders are transmitted through an electronic data interchanges (“EDI”)
system, and approximately 50% of vendor invoices are transmitted through EDI.
The Company is working to expand the number of vendors who transmit invoices to
the Company and increase the amount of sales history transmitted from the
Company, all through EDI. The Company’s merchandise purchasing is centrally
managed.

The Company operates a 500,000 square foot distribution center in Pendleton,
Indiana, a 144,000 square foot distribution center in Omaha, Nebraska and a
105,000 square foot distribution center in Waco, Texas, from which it serviced
approximately 207 stores, 49 stores and 67 stores, respectively, at December
29, 2001. The Company also utilizes a 57,000 square foot, strategically
located “cross-dock” facility in Rural Hall, North Carolina to support the main
distribution centers and transportation system network in servicing certain
stores located in the Southeast region of the country. In fiscal 2001, the
Company received approximately 65% of its merchandise through these
distribution facilities, with the balance delivered directly to the Company’s
stores. The main distribution centers ship to its stores using a dedicated
contract carrier, UPS Logistics Group, Inc. (“UPS”). UPS manages the dedicated
transportation services for the Company’s distribution centers and the
“cross-dock” facility, as well as the vendor direct-to-store shipments.
Additionally, UPS is responsible for the inbound freight management from over
300 vendors. The Company is continuously evaluating its long-term strategic
plan with respect to its distribution centers and transportation operations.

Management Information and Control Systems

The Company has invested considerable resources in sophisticated management
information and control systems to ensure superior customer service, support
the purchase and distribution of merchandise and improve operating
efficiencies. The management information and control systems include a
point-of-sale system, a purchase order management system, a replenishment
system, a merchandise planning system and sales, inventory and gross margin
management reporting systems. These systems are fully integrated and track
merchandise from order through sale. All operational data from these systems
is also fully integrated with the Company’s financial systems.

The Company continues to evaluate and improve the functionality of its systems
to maximize their effectiveness. Such efforts will include an ongoing
evaluation of the optimal software configuration (including system enhancements
and upgrades) as well as the adequacy of the underlying hardware components.
These efforts are directed toward constantly improving the overall business
processes and achieving the most efficient and effective use of the system to
manage the Company’s operations.

Competition

The Company operates in a highly competitive market. While the Company
believes it has successfully differentiated itself from general merchandise,
home center (i.e. “big box”) retailers and other specialty and discount
retailers, the Company faces select competition from these entities, as well as
competition from independently owned retail farm stores, several privately-held
regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives. Some of these competitors
are units of large national or regional chains that have substantially greater
financial and other resources than the Company.

Management and Employees

As of December 29, 2001, the Company employed approximately 2,100 full-time and
approximately 2,100 part-time employees. The Company also employs additional
part-time employees during peak periods. As of such date, approximately 30
employees of the Company’s Omaha, Nebraska distribution center were covered by
a collective bargaining agreement. This collective bargaining agreement
expires in July 2002.

Management believes its district managers, store managers and other supervisory
personnel have contributed significantly to the Company’s performance.
Management encourages the participation of all store employees in



decision making, regularly solicits input and suggestions from store employees
and responds to the suggestions expressed by Company employees. Management
believes it has good relationships with its employees.

Two of the five members of the Company’s senior management, most of the
Company’s district managers and a significant portion of the Company’s store
managers were promoted to their positions from within the Company. All members
of senior management have at least 15 years of business experience and one
member of senior management has over 20 years of experience with the Company.
District managers and store managers have an average length of service with the
Company of approximately 6.3 years and 5.3 years, respectively. Management
believes internal promotions coupled with the hiring of individuals with
previous retail experience will provide the management structure necessary to
support expected store growth.

Item 2. Properties

At December 29, 2001, the Company operated 323 stores in 28 states. The
Company leases its four distribution facilities and its management
headquarters, owns 65 stores and leases 258 stores. The store leases typically
have initial terms of between 10 and 15 years, with one to three renewal
periods of five years each, exercisable at the Company’s option. None of the
store leases individually is material to the Company’s operations. The leases
at its Pendleton, Indiana; Omaha, Nebraska; Waco, Texas and Rural Hall, North
Carolina distribution facilities expire in 2015, 2004, 2002 and 2004
respectively, and the lease for its management headquarters expires in 2007.
The lease agreement for the Waco distribution facility includes two 6-month
renewal options, which allows the term to extend into 2003. Six of the
Company’s stores are leased from affiliated parties. See Item 13. “Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions”.

As of December 29, 2001, the Company operated 323 stores in 28 states as
follows:

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

The Company is involved in various litigation matters involving routine claims
and lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of its business. The Company does
not believe that such claims and lawsuits, individually or in the aggregate,
will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Compliance with
federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to the
discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the
protection of the environment, has not had, and is not anticipated to have, a
material effect upon the capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position
of the Company.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security-Holders

No matter was submitted to a vote of the Company’s security-holders during the
fourth quarter of the Company’s fiscal year ended December 29, 2001.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list is
included as an unnumbered item in Part I of this Report in lieu of being
included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on April 18, 2002.

The following is a list of the names and ages of all officers, including the
executive officers, of the registrant indicating all positions and offices with
the registrant held by each such person and each person’s principal occupations
and employment during at least the past five years:

Joseph H. Scarlett, Jr. has served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company since 1993, having previously served as President and
Chief Operating Officer of the Company from 1987 to 1993. Between 1979 and
1987, Mr. Scarlett served as Vice President-Personnel, Senior Vice
President-Administration and Executive Vice President-Operations of the
Company. Mr. Scarlett has served as a director of the Company since 1982.

James F. Wright has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the
Company since October 2000. Mr. Wright previously served as President and
Chief Executive Officer of Tire Kingdom, a tire and automotive services
retailer, from May 1997 to June 2000. From 1988 to 1996, Mr. Wright held
senior management-level positions with Western Auto Supply Co., having
responsibilities for merchandising and store operations.

Gerald W. Brase has served as Senior Vice President-Merchandising of the
Company since September 1997. Mr. Brase previously served as Divisional Vice
President for Builders Square, a subsidiary of Kmart Corporation from 1993 to
1997.

Calvin B. Massmann has served as Senior Vice President-Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer since January 2000. Mr. Massmann previously served as an
independent business consultant during 1998 and 1999. From 1995 to 1997, Mr.
Massmann served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for
Builders Square, a subsidiary of Kmart Corporation.



Stanley L. Ruta has served as Senior Vice President-Store Operations since June
2000, after having served as a Vice President-Store Operations of the Company
since 1994.

John W. Atkins has served as Vice President-Information Technology of the
Company since April 1999, after having served as Vice President-Farm
Merchandising of the Company since December 1996 and as Division Merchandise
Manager of Farm Products of the Company since 1995 and as a Buyer for the
Company since 1992.

Blake A. Fohl has served as Vice President-Marketing of the Company since
December 1996, after having served as Director of Marketing of the Company
since June 1995 and as a Buyer for the Company since 1992.

Mark D. Gillman has served as a Vice President-Store Operations of the Company
since October 1999, after having served as District Manager since 1991 and as a
store manager for the Company since 1982.

Lawrence Goldberg has served as Vice President-Logistics of the Company since
October 1993, after having served as Director of Distribution of the Company
since 1992.

Stephen E. Hull has served as Vice President-Real Estate of the Company since
January 1999, after having served as Director of Real Estate of the Company
since 1998. Mr. Hull previously served as Vice President of Real Estate of
Heilig-Myers Corporation from 1990 to 1998.

David C. Lewis has served as Vice President-Controller and Corporate Secretary
since April 2000, after having served as Assistant Controller of the Company
since November 1995.

Gary M. Magoni has served as Vice President-Store Operations of the Company
since 1989.

Thomas P. Parrish has served as Vice President of Merchandising-Farm Products
since October 2001, after having served as Divisional Merchandise Manager of
Farm Products of the Company since 1999. Prior to 1999, Mr. Parrish served as
a Buyer of the Company from 1995 to 1999 and Assistant Buyer from 1993 to 1995.

Kimberly D. Vella has served as Vice President-Human Resources since October
2001, after having served as Director of Human Resources since September 1997
and Manager of Human Resources of the Company since January 1997.



PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The Company’s Common Stock began trading on The Nasdaq National Market on
February 18, 1994 under the symbol “TSCO”.

The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of the Company’s
Common Stock as reported by The Nasdaq National Market for each fiscal quarter
of the periods indicated:

Price Range

Fiscal 2001

Fiscal 2000

High

Low

High

Low

First Quarter

$

14.94

$

8.50

$

21.00

$

14.63

Second Quarter

$

16.45

$

13.50

$

22.00

$

12.00

Third Quarter

$

24.48

$

14.80

$

17.19

$

9.69

Fourth Quarter

$

34.98

$

17.47

$

11.06

$

6.50

As of January 31, 2002, the approximate number of record holders of the
Company’s Common Stock was 76 (excluding individual participants in nominee
security position listings) and the estimated number of beneficial holders of
the Company’s Common Stock was 4,500.

The Company has not declared any cash dividends on its Common Stock during the
two most recent fiscal years. The Company currently intends to retain all
earnings for future operation and expansion of its business and, therefore,
does not anticipate that any dividends will be declared on the Common Stock in
the foreseeable future. Any future declaration of dividends will be subject to
the discretion of the Company’s Board of Directors and subject to the Company’s
results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and other factors
deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The Company is also restricted from
paying cash dividends by the terms of its various financing agreements.

Item 6. Selected Financial Data

The information set forth under the caption “Five Year Selected Financial and
Operating Highlights” on page 14 of the Company’s Annual Report to Stockholders
for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2001 is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

The information set forth under the caption “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 15 through
22 of the Company’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
December 29, 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information set forth under the caption “Market Risks” of the section
entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” on page 21 of the Company’s Annual Report to
Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2001 is incorporated herein
by reference.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The information set forth under the captions “Report of Independent Auditors”,
“Consolidated Balance Sheets,” “Consolidated Statements of Income”, “
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity”, “Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows”, and “Consolidated Notes to Financial Statements” on
pages 22 through 36 of the Company’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the
fiscal year ended December 29, 2001 is incorporated herein by reference.



The Company’s unaudited operating results for each fiscal quarter within the
two most recent fiscal years, as set forth under the caption “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on
page 16 of the Company’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
ended December 29, 2001, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

As previously reported by the Company in a Form 8-K filed on September 21,
2001, the Company appointed Ernst & Young LLP as the Company’s independent
auditors and dismissed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The report of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP on the financial statements of the Company for the
fiscal years ended December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000 contained no adverse
opinion or disclaimer of opinion and neither of those reports was qualified or
modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principle. During the
fiscal years ended December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000, and through September
17, 2001, there were no disagreements or reportable events. The decision to
change firms was approved by the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of
Directors.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information set forth under the captions “Election of Class I and II
Directors and Information Regarding Directors” and “Compliance with Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934” on pages 2 through 4 and 13 and
14, respectively, of the Company’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held on April 18, 2002 is incorporated herein by reference.

The information set forth under the caption “Executive Officers of the
Registrant” in Part I of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

The information set forth under the captions “Board of Directors and Committees
of the Board — Compensation of Directors”, “Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation”, “Executive Compensation”, “Summary Compensation
Table”, “Option Grants in Last Fiscal Year”, “Aggregated Option Exercises in
Last Fiscal Year and Fiscal Year-End Option Values”, “Compensation Committee’s
Report on Executive Compensation”, and “Performance Graph” on pages 4 through
12 of the Company’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on April 18, 2002 is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information set forth under the caption “Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management” on pages 14 and 15 of the Company’s Proxy
Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 18, 2002
is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information set forth under the caption “Interests of Management in Certain
Transactions” on page 13 of the Company’s Proxy Statement for its Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 18, 2002 is incorporated herein by
reference.



PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statements and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1)

Financial Statements

The following financial statements and related notes of the Company
contained on pages 22 through 36 of the Company’s Annual Report to
Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2001 are incorporated
herein by reference:

Report of Independent Auditors

Consolidated Statements of Income — Fiscal Years Ended December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000

Consolidated Balance Sheets – December 29, 2001 and December 30, 2000

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity — Fiscal Years Ended December 29, 2001, December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — Fiscal Years Ended December 29,

2001, December 30, 2000 and January 1, 2000

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



(d)

Report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Accountants, on
the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of December 30, 2000 and for the two years in the
period ended December 30, 2000.

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and

Stockholders of Tractor Supply Company

In our opinion, the balance sheet as of December 30, 2000 and the related
statements of income, of changes in stockholders’ equity and of cash
flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 30, 2000
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Tractor Supply Company at December 30, 2000 and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period
ended December 30, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements
based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for the opinion. We have not audited the financial statements of
Tractor Supply Company for any period subsequent to December 30, 2000.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Nashville, Tennessee

January 24, 2001



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

TRACTOR SUPPLY COMPANY

Date:

March 28, 2002

By:

/s/ Calvin B. Massmann

Calvin B. Massmann

Senior Vice President –

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated.















*

Filed herewith.

21