
10-K405
10-K405



 
================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-5794
 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
        Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 313-274-7400
          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
 
                                      None
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]
 
The aggregate market value of the Registrant's Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant on February 28, 1997 (based on the closing sale
price of $35 1/8 of the Registrant's Common Stock, as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Tape on such date) was approximately $5,437,650,000.
 
Number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's Common Stock at February 28,
1997:
 
         160,764,934 shares of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share
 
Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed for its 1997
Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of
this Report.
================================================================================

 
                                

 

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
     Masco Corporation is engaged principally in the manufacture, sale and
installation of home improvement and building products. Masco believes that it
is the largest domestic manufacturer of faucets, kitchen and bath cabinets and
plumbing supplies and that it is a leading domestic producer of a number of
other home improvement and building products. Masco was incorporated under the
laws of Michigan in 1929 and in 1968 was reincorporated under the laws of
Delaware. Except as the context otherwise indicates, the terms "Masco" and the
"Company" refer to Masco Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
     The Company is among the country's largest manufacturers of brand-name
consumer products designed for the improvement and building of the home,
including faucets, kitchen and bath cabinets, kitchen appliances, bath and
shower enclosure units, spas and hot tubs, other shower, bath and plumbing
specialties and accessories, door locks and other builders' hardware, air
treatment products, venting and ventilating equipment and water pumps. These
products are sold through mass merchandisers, hardware stores, home centers,
distributors, wholesalers and other outlets to consumers and contractors. The
Company's operations are categorized into two industry segments: Kitchen and
Bath Products and Other Specialty Products.
 
                               INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
     The following table sets forth for the three years ended December 31, 1996,
the contribution of the Company's industry segments to net sales and operating
profit:

 
- -------------------------
(1) Results exclude the home furnishings products segment, which was classified
    as discontinued operations in 1995. See the Note to the Company's
    Consolidated Financial Statements captioned "Discontinued Operations,"
    included in Item 8 of this Report.
 
(2) Amounts are before general corporate expense.
 
     The net sales and operating profit attributable to industry segments for
1995 and 1994 have been restated to conform to the current year classification
of the Company's operations into the Kitchen and Bath Products and Other
Specialty Products segments. Additional financial information concerning the
Company's operations by industry segments as of and for the three years ended
December 31, 1996 is set forth in the Note to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements captioned "Segment Information," included in Item 8 of this
Report.
 
KITCHEN AND BATH PRODUCTS
 
     The Company manufactures a variety of single and double handle faucets.
DELTA(R) and PEERLESS(R) single and double handle faucets are used on kitchen,
lavatory and other sinks and in bath and shower installations. DELTA faucets are
sold primarily through manufacturers' representatives to
 

 
distributors who sell the faucets to plumbers, building contractors, remodelers,
retailers and others. PEERLESS faucets are sold primarily through manufacturers'
representatives directly to retail outlets such as mass merchandisers, home
centers and hardware stores and are also sold under private label. The Company's
ARTISTIC BRASS(R) and SHERLE WAGNER(TM) faucets and accessories are produced for
the decorator markets and are sold through wholesalers, distributor showrooms
and other outlets. ALSONS(R) hand showers and shower heads and MIXET(R) valves
and accessories are distributed through manufacturers' representatives to the
wholesale market and to retailers.
 
     Sales of faucets worldwide approximated $757 million in 1996, $698 million
in 1995 and $667 million in 1994. The percentage of operating profit on faucets
is somewhat higher than that on other products offered by the Company. The
Company believes that the simplicity, quality and reliability of its faucet
mechanisms, manufacturing efficiencies and capabilities, its marketing and
merchandising activities, and the development of a broad line of products have
accounted for the continued strength of its faucet sales.
 
     The Company manufactures stock, semi-custom and custom kitchen and bath
cabinetry in a variety of styles and in various price ranges. The Company sells
cabinets under a number of trademarks, including MERILLAT(R), KRAFTMAID(R),
STARMARK(R) and FIELDSTONE(R), with sales to distributors, home centers, dealers
and direct to builders for both the home improvement and new construction
markets. In addition to its domestic manufacturing, the Company manufactures
cabinetry in Germany, where sales are made primarily through Company-owned
showrooms to consumers, and in England, with sales primarily to builders for the
new construction market. Sales of kitchen and bath cabinets were approximately
$832 million in 1996, $758 million in 1995 and $665 million in 1994.
 
     The Company's brass and copper plumbing system components and other
plumbing specialties are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware wholesalers and
to home centers, hardware stores, building supply outlets and other mass
merchandisers. These products are marketed for the wholesale trade under the
BRASSCRAFT(R) trademark and for the "do-it-yourself" market under the PLUMB
SHOP(R), HOME PLUMBER(R) and MELARD(TM) trademarks and are also sold under
private label.
 
     Other Kitchen and Bath Products sold by the Company include THERMADOR(R)
cooktops, ovens, ranges and related cooking equipment and refrigerators, which
are marketed through appliance distributors and dealers. The Company's AQUA
GLASS(R) acrylic and gelcoat bath and shower units and whirlpools are sold
primarily to wholesale plumbing distributors for use in the home improvement and
new home construction markets. Other bath and shower enclosure units, shower
trays and laundry tubs are sold to the home improvement market through hardware
stores and home centers under the brand names AMERICAN SHOWER & BATH(TM) and
TRAYCO(TM). HUPPE(R) luxury bath and shower enclosures are manufactured and sold
by the Company through wholesale channels primarily in Germany. The Company
manufactures bath and shower accessories, vanity mirrors and bath storage
products and sells these products under the brand name ZENITH PRODUCTS(R) and
other tradenames to home centers, hardware stores and mass merchandisers for the
"do-it-yourself" market. The Company's spas and hot tubs are sold under the
brand name HOT SPRING SPA(R) and other trademarks directly to retailers for sale
to residential customers. In early 1997, the Company acquired Franklin Brass
Manufacturing Company, a leading manufacturer of bath accessories and bath
safety products.
 
OTHER SPECIALTY PRODUCTS
 
     The Company's Other Specialty Products include premium BALDWIN(R) quality
brass rim and mortise lock sets, knobs and trim and other builders' hardware
which are manufactured and sold for the home improvement and new home
construction markets. WEISER(R) lock sets and related hardware are sold through
contractor supply outlets, hardware distributors and home centers. SAFLOK(TM)
electronic lock sets and WINFIELD(TM) mechanical lock sets are sold primarily to
the hospitality market. In early 1997, the Company acquired LaGard Inc., whose
electronic lock sets are used primarily in containers for the banking industry,
such as safes, ATMs, vaults and cabinetry.
 

 
     The Company has recently begun to incorporate on many of its decorative
brass products a durable coating that offers anti-tarnish protection, under the
names BRILLIANCE(TM) and THE LIFETIME FINISH(TM). This innovative finish is
currently available on certain of the Company's bath and door hardware.
 
     The Company manufactures ventilation products under the tradename AMP(R),
including grilles, registers, diffusers and humidifiers which are sold through
wholesale distribution and home centers. GEBHARDT(TM) commercial ventilating
products and JUNG(TM) water pumps are manufactured and distributed by the
Company in Europe. Through local offices across the United States, the Company
also installs fiberglass insulation and other building products primarily for
the residential home building industry.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
     In August 1996, the Company completed the sale of its home furnishings
products businesses to Furnishings International Inc. These operations were
principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of quality furniture, fabrics
and other home furnishings. The total proceeds from the sale were $1,050
million, consisting of $708 million in cash, $285 million in junior debt
securities due 2008, and the balance in 13% cumulative preferred stock, 15
percent of the common stock of Furnishings International and preferred stock
convertible into an additional 25 percent ownership. The Company, however, is
restricted from maintaining ownership of Furnishings International in excess of
20 percent, so any additional common stock would be acquired only for resale.
The Company's financial statements and related notes reflect a 1995 pre-tax and
after-tax charge of $650 million approximating the actual loss on disposition as
of the 1996 sale date. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Discontinued Operations" included in Item
7 of this Report and the Note to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements
included in Item 8 of this Report captioned "Discontinued Operations." Unless
otherwise noted, reference to the Company excludes information relating to the
discontinued operations.
 
GENERAL INFORMATION
 
     No material portion of the Company's business is seasonal or has special
working capital requirements, although the Company maintains a higher investment
in inventories for certain of its businesses than the average manufacturing
company. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Cash Flows from Operating Activities," included in Item
7 of this Report. The Company does not consider backlog orders to be material
and no material portion of its business is dependent upon any one customer or
subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at the election
of the federal government. Compliance with federal, state and local regulations
relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise
relating to the protection of the environment, is not expected to result in
material capital expenditures by the Company or to have a material effect on the
Company's earnings or competitive position. In general, raw materials required
by the Company are obtainable from various sources and in the quantities
desired.
 
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
 
     The Company, through its subsidiaries, has home improvement and building
products manufacturing plants in Belgium, Canada, Denmark, England, France,
Germany, Italy, Mexico, Spain, Taiwan and Turkey. Home improvement and building
products manufactured by the Company outside of the United States include
faucets and accessory products, bath and shower enclosures, bath accessories,
kitchen and bath cabinets, decorative accessories, door lock sets and related
hardware, floor registers, humidifiers, ventilating equipment, submersible water
pumps and special insulation materials. The Company expanded its European
operations during 1996 through the acquisition of three manufacturers: The Moore
Group Ltd., a leading United Kingdom based manufacturer of kitchen cabinets,
Horst
 

 
Breuer GmbH, a German manufacturer of shower enclosures and E. Missel GmbH, a
leading German manufacturer of proprietary plumbing insulation materials.
 
     The Company's foreign operations are subject to political, monetary,
economic and other risks attendant generally to international businesses. These
risks generally vary from country to country.
 
     Financial information concerning the Company's export sales and foreign and
domestic operations, including the net sales, operating profit and assets which
are attributable to the Company's operations in North America and in other
geographic areas, as of and for the three years ended December 31, 1996, is set
forth in Item 8 of this Report in the Note to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements captioned "Segment Information."
 
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
 
     The Company holds a number of United States and foreign patents covering
various design features and valve constructions used in certain of its faucets,
and also holds a number of other patents and patent applications, licenses,
trademarks and tradenames. As a manufacturer of brand name consumer products,
the Company views its trademarks and other proprietary rights as important, but
does not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such
rights that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's present
business as a whole.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The major domestic and foreign markets for the Company's products are
highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on performance, quality,
style, customer service and price, with the relative importance of such factors
varying among products. A number of companies of varying size compete with one
or more of the Company's product lines.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     At December 31, 1996, approximately 22,800 people were employed by the
Company. Satisfactory relations have generally prevailed between the Company and
its employees.
 
EQUITY INVESTMENTS
 
     MascoTech, Inc.
 
     In 1984, Masco transferred its industrial businesses to a newly formed
subsidiary, MascoTech, Inc. (formerly Masco Industries, Inc.), which became a
separate public company in July, 1984 when Masco distributed to its stockholders
shares of MascoTech common stock as a special dividend. In October 1996, the
Company reduced its common equity interest in MascoTech from 45 percent to 21
percent through the sale to MascoTech of MascoTech common stock and warrants to
purchase shares of MascoTech common stock. Payment of $115 million of the
purchase price was made in cash at closing and the balance of $151 million is
due by September 30, 1997 payable in cash, or at MascoTech's option, in cash and
publicly traded securities of Emco Limited held by MascoTech. As part of that
transaction, the Company granted MascoTech a right of first refusal, which
expires September 30, 2000, to purchase the remaining shares of MascoTech common
stock held by the Company. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included in Item 7 of this
Report, regarding the effect of this transaction on the Company. Emco is a
Canadian manufacturer and distributor of home improvement and building products.
MascoTech's conversion of its outstanding preferred stock into MascoTech common
stock in mid-1997 will further reduce the Company's ownership in MascoTech to
approximately 17 percent.
 
     MascoTech is a leading supplier of metalworked and aftermarket products for
the transportation industry. MascoTech's net sales for 1996 were approximately
$1.3 billion.
 

 
     During the last decade, MascoTech pursued diversified growth in the
transportation-related, architectural and defense markets. Structural changes in
recent years in the markets served by MascoTech, combined with the growth
opportunities and the capital requirements of certain of MascoTech's
transportation-related businesses, led MascoTech to an evaluation of the
prospects for all of its businesses. This evaluation resulted in a strategic
plan to focus on its core operating capabilities and divest certain other
businesses. MascoTech's engine and drivetrain group and aftermarket group
constitute its core operating businesses.
 
     In late 1994, MascoTech adopted a plan to dispose of its architectural
products, defense and certain of its transportation-related businesses. The
disposition of these businesses was completed in 1996. In addition, in 1996,
MascoTech disposed of its heavy-gauge stamping operations and in early 1997, it
completed the sale of its engineering and technical services businesses. The
cash portion of the proceeds from the disposition of these businesses has been
applied to reduce MascoTech's indebtedness and to provide capital to invest in
its core businesses. The disposition of these businesses did not meet the
criteria for discontinued operations treatment for accounting purposes;
accordingly, the sales and results of operations of these businesses are
included in the results of continuing operations through the date of
disposition. Businesses held for sale or sold, including the engineering and
technical services businesses and the heavy-gauge stamping operations, had sales
of approximately $412 million in 1996. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included in Item 7 of this
Report, regarding the effect of these actions on the Company.
 
     Approximately 80 percent of MascoTech's transportation-related Products
sales in 1996 (including businesses held for disposition) were original
equipment automotive products and services. Sales to original equipment
manufacturers are made through factory sales personnel and independent sales
representatives. During 1996, sales to various divisions and subsidiaries of
Ford Motor Company, Chrysler Corporation, General Motors Corporation and New
Venture Gear, Inc. accounted for approximately 18 percent, 11 percent, 10
percent and 12 percent, respectively, of MascoTech's net sales (including
businesses held for disposition). Sales to the automotive aftermarket are made
primarily to distributors utilizing factory sales personnel. Aftermarket
products are sold to companies distributing into the traditional, retail and
heavy-duty segments of the automotive aftermarket.
 
     MascoTech's engine and drivetrain products include semi-finished
transmission shafts, drive gears, engine connecting rods, wheel spindles and
front wheel drive components. Aftermarket products include fuel and emission
systems components, windshield wiper blades, constant-velocity joints, brake
hardware repair kits and other automotive accessories. MascoTech's metalworked
products are manufactured using various technologies, including cold, warm and
hot forming, powder metal forming, value-added machining, tubular steel
fabricating and hydroforming.
 
     TriMas Corporation
 
     The Company and MascoTech currently own approximately 4 percent and 37
percent, respectively, of the outstanding common stock of TriMas Corporation.
TriMas is a diversified proprietary products company with leadership positions
in commercial, industrial and consumer niche markets, including specialty
container products, pressurized gas cylinders, specialty industrial gaskets,
towing systems products, specialty fasteners, pressure-sensitive tapes and
products for fiberglass insulation, and precision cutting tools.
 
     Hans Grohe
 
     The Company has a 27 percent partnership interest in Hans Grohe GmbH & Co.
KG, a German manufacturer of faucets, handheld showers, shower heads and other
shower accessories.
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
     The following list sets forth the location of the Company's principal
manufacturing facilities and identifies the industry segments utilizing such
facilities:
 

 
     Industry segments identified in the preceding table are: (1) Kitchen
     and Bath Products and (2) Other Specialty Products. Multiple footnotes
     within the same parentheses indicate that significant activities
     relating to more than one segment are conducted at that location.
 

 
     The three principal faucet manufacturing plants are located in Greensburg,
Indiana, Chickasha, Oklahoma and Jackson, Tennessee. The faucet manufacturing
plants and the majority of the Company's other manufacturing facilities range in
size from approximately 10,000 square feet to 900,000 square feet. The Company
owns most of its manufacturing facilities and none of the properties is subject
to significant encumbrances. In addition to its manufacturing facilities, the
Company operates approximately 65 facilities (the majority of which are leased)
which install fiberglass insulation and other building products. The Company's
corporate headquarters are located in Taylor, Michigan and are owned by the
Company. An additional building near its corporate headquarters is used by the
Company's corporate research and development department.
 
     The Company's buildings, machinery and equipment have been generally well
maintained, are in good operating condition, and are adequate for current
production requirements.
 
     The following list sets forth the location of MascoTech's principal
manufacturing facilities:
 

 
     All of MascoTech's manufacturing facilities are primarily engaged in
MascoTech's Transportation -- Related Products operations. MascoTech's principal
manufacturing facilities range in size from approximately 10,000 square feet to
320,000 square feet, substantially all of which are owned by MascoTech and are
not subject to significant encumbrances. The MascoTech executive offices are
located in Taylor, Michigan, and are provided by the Company to MascoTech under
a corporate services agreement.
 
     MascoTech's buildings, machinery and equipment have been generally well
maintained, are in good operating condition, and are adequate for current
requirements.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     The Company is subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of
business, but does not believe that any such claim or litigation will have a
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
SUPPLEMENTARY ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT (PURSUANT TO INSTRUCTION 3
TO ITEM 401(B) OF REGULATION S-K).
 

 
     Executive officers who are elected by the Board of Directors serve for a
term of one year or less. Each elected executive officer has been employed in a
managerial capacity with the Company for over five years except for Messrs.
Foley and Gargaro and Dr. Bauder. Mr. Foley was employed by MascoTech, Inc. as
its Vice President -- Human Resources from 1994 to 1996 and was President of
Executive Business Partners, Inc., a training and consulting firm, from 1993 to
1994. From 1991 to 1992, he was Vice President -- Administration and General
Counsel at Domino's Pizza, Inc., a company engaged in producing, distributing
and retail sales of food products through franchised and company-owned stores.
Mr. Gargaro joined the Company as its Vice President and Secretary in October,
1993. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gargaro was a partner at the Detroit law
firm of Dykema Gossett PLLC. Mr. Gargaro has served as a director and Secretary
of MascoTech, Inc., since 1984, and as a director and Secretary of TriMas
Corporation since 1989. From 1984 to 1996, Dr. Bauder served as President and
Chief Executive Officer of Cranbrook Educational Community.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     The New York Stock Exchange is the principal market on which the Company's
Common Stock is traded. The following table indicates the high and low sales
prices of the Company's Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Tape and the cash dividends declared per share for the periods
indicated:
 

 
     On February 28, 1997, there were approximately 5,700 holders of record of
the Company's Common Stock.
 
     The Company expects that its practice of paying quarterly dividends on its
Common Stock will continue, although future dividends will continue to depend
upon the Company's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other
factors.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The following table sets forth summary consolidated financial information
for the Company's continuing operations, for the years and dates indicated:
 

 
  (1) The year 1994 includes a $79 million after-tax ($.50 per share) non-cash
      equity investment charge.
 

 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     The following financial and business analysis provides information which
the Company believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the
Company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. This
financial and business analysis should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and related notes.
 
OVERVIEW
 
     The Company is engaged principally in the manufacture, sale and
installation of home improvement and building products. These products are sold
to the home improvement and home construction markets through mass
merchandisers, hardware stores, home centers, distributors, wholesalers and
other outlets for consumers and contractors.
 
     Factors which affect the Company's results of operations include the levels
of home improvement and residential construction activity principally in the
U.S. and Europe (including repair and remodeling and new construction), cost
management and the Company's ability to maintain its leadership positions in an
increasingly competitive marketplace. Historically, the Company has been able to
largely offset cyclical declines in housing markets through new product
introductions and market share gains.
 
     Net sales and operating profit from continuing operations for 1996 were
$3,237 million and $481 million, representing increases of 11 percent and 19
percent, respectively, over 1995. Net income from continuing operations and
income from continuing operations per share for 1996 were $295 million and
$1.84, representing increases of 48 percent and 47 percent, respectively, and
include the benefits of higher other income in 1996. Increases in net sales
typically result in operating profit improvements that exceed the net sales
increases due to the allocation of fixed and semi-fixed costs over a higher
sales base. The 1996 fourth quarter included after-tax charges (primarily for
adjustments of miscellaneous assets to their estimated fair value) of $37.5
million or $.23 per share, which were more than offset by the after-tax gain
from the sale of certain MascoTech investments of $40.7 million or $.25 per
share.
 
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT
 
     Consistent with the Company's objective of building on its European
presence, the Company during 1996 acquired: The Moore Group Ltd., a leading
United Kingdom manufacturer of kitchen cabinets; Horst Breuer GmbH, a German
manufacturer of shower enclosures; and E. Missel GmbH, a leading German
manufacturer of proprietary specialty products. The aggregate purchase price for
these companies was approximately $173 million, and the acquisitions were
accounted for as purchase transactions. These companies had combined annual net
sales in 1995 of approximately $140 million.
 
     Acquisitions have historically contributed significantly to Masco's
long-term growth, even though generally the initial impact on earnings is
minimal after deducting acquisition-related costs such as interest and added
depreciation and amortization. The important earnings benefit to Masco arises
from subsequent growth of acquired companies, since incremental sales are not
handicapped by these expenses.
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     In late November 1995, the Company's Board of Directors approved a formal
plan to dispose of the Company's home furnishings products segment. Operations
that were included in this segment were principally engaged in the manufacture
and sale of quality furniture, fabrics and other home furnishings. The
appropriate provisions were recorded in the fourth quarter of 1995 for the
estimated loss on the discontinued operations through the expected disposal
date, the reduction of assets to their estimated net realizable value and the
anticipated liabilities related to the disposal. The total provision amounted to
$650 million on a pre-tax and after-tax basis. The approximate results of
operations for the
 

 
period after the decision to discontinue were previously estimated and included
in the expense provision established in 1995.
 
     In early August 1996, the Company completed the sale of its home
furnishings products businesses to Furnishings International Inc. Furnishings
International's investors include 399 Venture Partners (a subsidiary of
Citibank), certain members of Furnishings International's management, the
Company and certain affiliates of Travelers Group Inc. Total proceeds to the
Company from the sale were $1,050 million with approximately $708 million of the
purchase price in cash. The balance consisted of $285 million of 12 percent
pay-in-kind junior debt securities, and equity securities totalling $57 million,
consisting of 13 percent cumulative preferred stock with a stated value of $55
million, 15 percent of the common stock of Furnishings International and
convertible preferred stock.
 
     The junior debt securities mature in 2008; the Company is recording the 12
percent pay-in-kind interest income from these securities. The Company will
record dividend income from the 13 percent cumulative preferred stock if and
when such dividends are declared. The convertible preferred stock represents
transferable rights for up to a 25 percent common ownership, although the
Company is restricted from maintaining an ownership in excess of 20 percent of
Furnishings International's common equity. As such, the Company will not acquire
additional common equity, except for purposes of resale only. Of the cash
proceeds received from this sale, approximately $550 million was applied to
reduce bank debt. The balance of the proceeds will eventually be invested in the
future growth of the Company.
 
     Under a transitional services agreement, the Company provides
corporate-related services for a fee to Furnishings International through April
1997. Substantially all of these services will be discontinued after such date.
 
     The Company's $650 million pre-tax and after-tax charge for the disposition
of the home furnishings products segment, which was recorded at December 31,
1995, approximated the actual loss on disposition as of the 1996 sale date.
 
     The majority of the charge from the disposition of the home furnishings
products segment resulted in a capital loss for tax purposes. The ultimate tax
benefit from the disposition cannot be determined currently and will be reported
in subsequent periods if and when taxable capital gains are realized.
 
     The Company's former President and Chief Operating Officer, Wayne B. Lyon,
has retired as a Company employee and joined Furnishings International as its
full-time Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. The Company's
Executive Vice President and President -- Building Products, Raymond F. Kennedy,
was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in August
1996.
 
PROFIT MARGINS
 
     Operating profit margin, before general corporate expense, improved to 17.5
percent in 1996 following a decline to 16.8 percent in 1995 from 19.8 percent in
1994. The improvement in 1996 is principally due to a reduction in selling,
general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. The Company's
operating margin from faucet sales is somewhat higher than that on other
products offered by the Company due to the simplicity, quality and reliability
of its faucet mechanisms, manufacturing efficiencies and capabilities, extensive
marketing and merchandising activities and breadth of product offering.
 
     General corporate expense in 1996 was $85 million, as compared with $90
million in 1995 and $80 million in 1994. Operating profit margin, after general
corporate expense, was 14.8 percent, 13.7 percent and 16.7 percent in 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively.
 
     Net income from continuing operations as a percentage of sales increased to
9.1 percent in 1996 from 6.8 percent and 6.7 percent in 1995 and 1994,
respectively. After-tax profit return on shareholders'
 

 
equity, as measured by net income from continuing operations, increased to 17.8
percent in 1996 from 9.4 percent and 8.6 percent in 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
     For 1994, net income from continuing operations reflects an unusual
after-tax charge of $79 million or approximately $.50 per share for the
Company's equity share of its affiliate MascoTech, Inc.'s $315 million non-cash
after-tax charge for the divestiture of its non-core businesses. Prior to giving
effect to such charge, net income from continuing operations as a percentage of
sales and after-tax profit return on shareholders' equity for 1994 were 9.7
percent and 12.5 percent, respectively.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
     Over the years, the Company has largely funded its growth through cash
provided by a combination of operations and long-term bank and other borrowings.
At December 31, 1996, the Company's shelf-registration statement permits the
issuance of up to a combined $759 million of debt and equity securities.
 
     Bank credit lines are maintained to ensure availability of short-term funds
on an as-needed basis. At December 31, 1996, the Company had available $750
million under its bank revolving-credit facility. Any outstanding balances under
this facility are due and payable in November 2001. Certain debt agreements
contain limitations on additional borrowings and requirements for maintaining a
certain level of tangible net worth. At December 31, 1996, the Company was in
compliance with these limitations and requirements, and the Company's tangible
net worth exceeded the most restrictive of such provisions by approximately $347
million.
 
     Maintaining high levels of liquidity and cash flow are among the Company's
financial strategies. During 1996, the Company strengthened its balance sheet
and reduced both its short-term and long-term debt. The Company's working
capital ratio was 2.8 to 1 at December 31, 1996 compared with 2.2 to 1 at
December 31, 1995. The Company's debt as a percent of total capitalization
approximated 39 percent at December 31, 1996 compared with 47 percent at
December 31, 1995. The Company's improved financial strength at December 31,
1996 compared with December 31, 1995 is primarily due to the payment of
long-term debt from a portion of the cash consideration from the sale of the
Company's home furnishings products businesses, the sale of certain MascoTech
investments and improved earnings from operations in 1996. The Company's cash
balance at December 31, 1996 includes approximately $150 million from European
borrowings which should improve the Company's utilization of foreign tax credits
in future years.
 
CASH FLOWS
 
     Significant sources and uses of cash in the past three years are shown in
the following table, in thousands:
 

 

 
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
     Continuing operations generated $79.2 million and $50.0 million more cash
in 1996 than in 1995 and 1994, respectively, primarily due to increased earnings
and a decreased impact from changes in working capital. During 1996, the
Company's accounts receivable and inventories increased by $27.0 million and
$20.2 million, respectively, primarily as a result of acquisitions. As compared
with the average manufacturing company, the Company maintains a higher
investment in inventories, which relates to the Company's business strategies of
providing better customer service, establishing efficient production scheduling
and benefitting from larger, more cost-effective purchasing.
 
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 
     Investing activities of continuing operations provided cash of $564.8
million in 1996 compared with cash used for investing activities of $141.3
million in 1995. The increase of $706.1 million is primarily the result of cash
proceeds from the sale of discontinued operations and certain MascoTech
investments, offset by cash used for the acquisition of three European companies
at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $173 million, which was
principally provided by European borrowings. The Company anticipates the
continued use of cash for the acquisition of companies.
 
     In early August 1996, the Company completed the sale of its home
furnishings products segment to Furnishings International Inc. Total proceeds to
the Company from the sale were $1,050 million with approximately $708 million of
the purchase price in cash. (See Discontinued Operations in this Management's
Discussion and Analysis.)
 
     During October 1996, the Company completed the sale to MascoTech, Inc. of
17 million shares of MascoTech common stock and warrants to purchase 10 million
shares of MascoTech common stock. Under the sale agreement, the Company received
$266 million, with $115 million cash paid at closing. The Company receives
interest income at 6.625 percent on the $151 million balance of the
consideration, which is due by September 1997; this amount is included in
non-current assets inasmuch as the Company may receive publicly traded
securities of Emco Limited held by MascoTech, in payment of a substantial
portion of this balance. Emco Limited is a Canadian manufacturer and distributor
of home improvement and building products. The Company recorded a 1996 fourth
quarter net pre-tax gain of $67.8 million ($40.7 million after-tax) from the
sale. This gain was principally offset by fourth quarter charges aggregating
$49.1 million pre-tax ($37.5 million after-tax) primarily for adjustments of
miscellaneous assets to their estimated fair value. This transaction reduced the
Company's common equity ownership in MascoTech from 45 percent to 21 percent.
The transaction, when considered along with the conversion by mid-1997 of
outstanding MascoTech preferred stock into MascoTech common stock, will reduce
the Company's ownership in MascoTech to approximately 17 percent (which equals
the Company's voting interest at December 31, 1996). MascoTech holds an option
expiring in 2002 to require the Company to purchase up to $200 million aggregate
amount of subordinated debt securities of MascoTech. As part of the transaction,
Masco Chairman Richard Manoogian also agreed to sell to MascoTech one million
shares of his holdings of MascoTech common stock at the then market price of
$13 5/8. As a result, his common ownership in MascoTech before the transaction
remains approximately the same, at seven percent, following the purchases by
MascoTech.
 
     Capital expenditures totalled $138.5 million in 1996 compared with $165.1
million in 1995. These amounts primarily pertain to expenditures for additional
facilities related to increased demand for existing products as well as for new
Masco products. The Company also continues to invest in automating its
manufacturing operations and increasing its productivity, in order to be a more
efficient producer and improve customer service and response time. The Company
expects capital expenditures for 1997, excluding those of potential 1997
acquisitions, to approximate the 1996 level. Depreciation and amortization
expense for 1996 totalled $99.7 million, compared with $90.1 million for 1995;
for 1997, depreciation and amortization expense is expected to be approximately
$105 million, excluding 1997 acquisitions.
 

 
     Costs of environmental responsibilities and compliance with existing
environmental laws and regulations have not had, nor in the opinion of the
Company are they expected to have, a material adverse effect on the Company's
capital expenditures, financial position, or results of operations.
 
CASH FLOWS FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 
     Cash used for financing activities increased to $491.7 million in 1996 from
$156.1 million in 1995. During 1996, the Company paid the $250 million of 9
percent notes due April 15, 1996 through borrowings under its bank
revolving-credit agreement. The Company later in 1996 applied approximately $550
million of the proceeds from the 1996 sale of the home furnishings products
segment to reduce bank debt.
 
     During 1996, the Company increased its dividend rate 5 percent to $.20 per
share quarterly. This marks the 38th consecutive year in which dividends have
been increased.
 
     The Company believes that its present cash balance and cash flows from
operations are sufficient to fund its near-term working capital and other
investment needs. The Company believes that its longer-term working capital and
other general corporate requirements will be satisfied through cash flows from
operations and, to the extent necessary, from future financial market
activities, from proceeds from asset sales and from bank borrowings.
 
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     Net sales for 1996 were $3,237 million, representing an increase of 11
percent over 1995. After adjusting for acquisitions and the divestiture of two
small operations, net sales for 1996 increased 7 percent over 1995. Net sales
for 1995 increased 13 percent to $2,927 million from $2,583 million in 1994;
after adjusting for acquisitions in 1995 and 1994, net sales for 1995 increased
7 percent.
 
     Cost of sales as a percentage of sales was 63.3 percent in 1996 compared
with 63.1 percent and 60.9 percent for 1995 and 1994, respectively. The modest
increase in the cost of sales percentage for 1996 over 1995 is primarily
attributable to softness in the Company's European markets, expenses associated
with manufacturing process improvement initiatives and product sales mix, which
offset the benefits resulting from increased sales volume and new product
introductions. The increase in the cost of sales percentage for 1995 over 1994
was primarily the result of plant start-up costs related to a major new faucet
facility in the U.S. and product sales mix. Product sales mix was primarily
occasioned by a higher percentage of lower margin sales to total sales.
 
     Excluding amortization of excess cost over acquired net assets ($12.1
million, $10.0 million and $6.7 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively),
selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were 21.5
percent in 1996 compared with 22.8 percent and 22.1 percent for 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The decrease in the selling, general and administrative expenses
percentage in 1996 results from the Company's cost-reduction initiatives, the
substitution of contingent incentive-based compensation for the reduction in
compensation for certain executives and the leverage of fixed and semi-fixed
costs over a higher sales base. The increase in the selling, general and
administrative expenses percentage in 1995 resulted from higher promotional,
advertising and insurance costs in 1995 versus 1994.
 
     Included in other income and expense, net are equity earnings from
MascoTech of $13.9 million for 1996 as compared with equity earnings of $18.2
million for 1995 and $106.1 million of equity loss from MascoTech in 1994. The
decrease in equity earnings from MascoTech for 1996 compared with 1995
principally reflects the Company's $11.7 million pre-tax equity share of
MascoTech's loss from the sale of its metal stamping businesses. The Company
recognized a $67.8 million net pre-tax gain ($40.7 million after-tax) from the
fourth quarter 1996 sale to MascoTech of 17 million shares of MascoTech common
stock and warrants to purchase 10 million shares of MascoTech common stock. The
equity loss from MascoTech in 1994 reflects the Company's $138 million pre-tax
($79 million
 

 
after-tax) equity share of MascoTech's unusual non-cash 1994 fourth quarter
charge for the disposition of its non-core businesses.
 
     Included in other income and expense, net for 1996 are $36.3 million of
fourth quarter charges primarily related to adjustments of miscellaneous assets
to estimated fair value and $14.0 million of interest income from the
pay-in-kind notes of Furnishings International Inc.
 
     Other income and expense, net for 1995 includes a $15.9 million gain from
the sale of the Company's investment in Formica Corporation; this gain was
offset primarily by charges for product line disposals.
 
     After-tax income and income per share from continuing operations for 1996
were $295 million and $1.84 compared with $200 million and $1.25 for 1995 and
$173 million and $1.09 for 1994, respectively. Excluding the Company's equity
share of the above-mentioned 1994 MascoTech charge, after-tax income and income
per share from continuing operations for 1994 were approximately $252 million
and $1.59. The Company's effective tax rate decreased to 41.3 percent in 1996
from 43.1 percent in 1995 due primarily to a reduction in higher-taxed foreign
income as a percentage of total income. The 1994 tax rate was 41.0 percent.
 
OUTLOOK FOR THE COMPANY
 
     Assuming that the U.S. economy maintains its present rate of moderate
growth and interest rates remain relatively stable, the Company expects
improvement in both sales and earnings for 1997. The Company also expects to
improve its results in 1997 and in future years: by continuing to invest in new
manufacturing technologies and productivity improvement initiatives in order to
reduce costs and increase efficiency; by maintaining a lower level of selling,
general and administrative expenses; by introducing new products and marketing
initiatives to increase market share and share of customer; and by actively
pursuing acquisition candidates that complement or support the Company's core
competencies.
 
NET SALES BY PRODUCT SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA
 
     The following table sets forth the Company's net sales from continuing
operations by product group and geographic area, in millions.
 

 

 
BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS
 
     Kitchen and Bath Products
 
     Net sales of the Company's Kitchen and Bath Products increased 10 percent
in 1996 over 1995 and 10 percent in 1995 over 1994; after adjusting for
acquisitions, net sales increased 7 percent in 1996 over 1995 and 6 percent in
1995 over 1994. These increases are largely due to higher unit sales volume of
faucets, cabinets and other kitchen and bath products, and to a lesser extent,
selling price increases and new product introductions.
 
     Operating profit of the Company's Kitchen and Bath Products, before general
corporate expense, was $462 million, $411 million and $441 million in 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively. Operating margin, before general corporate expense,
improved to 18.3 percent in 1996 following a decline to 18.0 percent in 1995
from 21.2 percent in 1994.
 
     Operating results of this business segment showed a net improvement in 1996
over 1995. This net improvement results from higher unit sales volume, increased
efficiency and utilization of new and existing manufacturing facilities and the
leverage of fixed and semi-fixed selling, general and administrative expenses
over a higher sales base, which more than offset the modestly weaker results of
the Company's U.S. cabinet businesses and the lower results of European
operations. Operating results of the Company's U.S. cabinet businesses were
modestly weaker in 1996 and 1995 due to the influence of a higher percentage of
lower margin sales to total sales and the recognition of certain expenses for
various initiatives undertaken to improve manufacturing processes and customer
service and to shorten product delivery time. Operating results of this business
segment were also lower in 1995, as compared with 1994, due to plant start-up
costs related to a major new faucet facility in the U.S.
 
     Other Specialty Products
 
     Net sales of the Company's Other Specialty Products increased 11 percent in
1996 over 1995 and 27 percent in 1995 over 1994. After adjusting for
acquisitions and divestitures, net sales increased 7 percent in 1996 over 1995
and 11 percent in 1995 over 1994. Operating profit of the Company's Other
Specialty Products, before general corporate expense, was $104 million, $82
million and $70 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Operating margin,
before general corporate expense, improved to 14.5 percent in 1996 following a
decline to 12.7 percent in 1995 from 13.8 percent in 1994.
 
     Operating results of this business segment for 1996 as compared with 1995
benefitted from higher unit sales volume of mechanical and electronic lock sets
and higher installation sales of fiberglass insulation, and to a lesser extent,
selling price increases and new product introductions. Operating results in 1996
also benefitted from the leverage of fixed and semi-fixed selling, general and
administrative expenses over a higher sales base and the divestiture of two
under-performing operations. Operating profit as a percentage of sales decreased
in 1995 from 1994, in part due to lower unit sales volume of mechanical lock
sets. Operating results were negatively affected in 1996 and 1995 by lower
results of European operations.
 
GEOGRAPHIC AREA RESULTS
 
     North America
 
     Net sales of North American operations increased 10 percent in 1996 over
1995 and 9 percent in 1995 over 1994. Net sales of North American operations,
after adjusting for acquisitions and divestitures, increased 9 percent in 1996
over 1995 and 5 percent in 1995 over 1994. Operating profit from North American
operations, before general corporate expense, was $479 million, $407 million and
$437 million for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Operating margin, before
general corporate expense, improved to 17.9 percent in 1996 following a decline
to 16.7 percent in 1995 from 19.5 percent in 1994.
 
     Operating results of North American operations in 1996 benefitted from
higher sales volume which was partly driven by an increase in U.S. housing
transactions, including higher levels of new construction and existing homes
sales. Operating results of North American operations in 1995 were
 

 
lower, in part due to plant start-up costs related to a major new faucet
facility and product sales mix. Operating results of the Company's Canadian
operations were relatively flat in 1996 and 1995, as compared with 1994.
 
     European Union
 
     Net sales of European operations increased 15 percent in 1996 over 1995 and
45 percent in 1995 over 1994; after adjusting for acquisitions, net sales
decreased 1 percent in 1996 from 1995 and increased 19 percent in 1995 over
1994. Operating profit from European operations, before general corporate
expense, was $87 million, $86 million and $74 million for 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. Operating margin, before general corporate expense, decreased to
15.6 percent in 1996 following a decline to 17.7 percent in 1995 from 22.0
percent in 1994.
 
     Results of European operations were lower in 1996 and 1995, in part due to
softness in the Company's European markets beginning in mid-1995, competitive
pricing pressures on certain products and the influence of a higher percentage
of lower margin sales to total sales. In addition, a stronger U.S. dollar had a
negative effect on the translation of European results in 1996 as compared with
1995, lowering European net sales by approximately 3 percent. A weaker U.S.
dollar in 1995 as compared with 1994 resulted in an increase in European net
sales of approximately 12 percent.
 
RECENTLY ISSUED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125, "Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities,"
and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of
Position No. 96-1, "Environmental Remediation Liabilities," become effective in
January 1997 and will not have a material impact on the Company's financial
statements.
 
     The Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,"
and, accordingly, stock options do not constitute compensation expense in the
determination of net income in the statement of operations. Had stock option
compensation expense been determined pursuant to the methodology of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," the pro forma effect for 1996 would have been a reduction in the
Company's earnings per share of approximately $.03 or less than two percent,
which would not have been material.
 

 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors
  and Shareholders of Masco Corporation:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Masco
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related
consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1996 and the financial statement schedule as
listed in Item 14(a)(2) of the Form 10-K. These financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Masco
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1996 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information required to be included therein.
 
COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
Detroit, Michigan
February 18, 1997
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                           DECEMBER 31, 1996 AND 1995
 
                                     ASSETS
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Principles of Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Masco Corporation and all majority-owned subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated. The Company
classified its home furnishings products segment as discontinued operations in
1995. (See "Discontinued Operations" note.) Accordingly, the financial
statements and related notes present the home furnishings products segment as
discontinued operations. Certain amounts for prior years have been reclassified
to conform to the current year presentation.
 
     Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from such estimates and assumptions.
 
     Average Shares Outstanding. The average number of common shares outstanding
in 1996, 1995 and 1994 approximated 160.6 million, 159.6 million and 158.8
million, respectively.
 
     Cash and Cash Investments. The Company considers all highly liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash and
cash investments.
 
     Receivables. The Company does significant business with a number of
individual customers. The Company monitors its exposure for credit losses and
maintains adequate allowances for doubtful accounts. At December 31, 1996 and
1995 accounts and notes receivable are presented net of allowances for doubtful
accounts of $17.9 million and $16.3 million, respectively.
 
     Property and Equipment. Property and equipment, including significant
betterments to existing facilities, are recorded at cost. Upon retirement or
disposal, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts
and any gain or loss is included in the statement of operations. Maintenance and
repair costs are charged to expense as incurred.
 
     Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation is computed principally using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Annual
depreciation rates are as follows: buildings and land improvements, 2 to 10
percent, and machinery and equipment, 5 to 33 percent. Depreciation was $71.7
million, $65.3 million and $54.5 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
     The excess of cost over net assets of acquired companies is being amortized
using the straight-line method over periods not exceeding 40 years; at December
31, 1996 and 1995 such accumulated amortization totalled $70.2 million and $58.1
million, respectively. At each balance sheet date, management assesses whether
there has been an impairment in the carrying value of excess of cost over net
assets of acquired companies, primarily by comparing current and projected
annual sales, operating income and annual cash flows on an undiscounted basis
with the related annual amortization expense; management also considers business
prospects, market trends and other economic factors in performing this
assessment. Based on this assessment, there was no permanent impairment related
to the excess of cost over net assets of acquired companies at December 31, 1996
and 1995. Purchase costs of patents are being amortized using the straight-line
method over the legal lives of the patents, not to exceed 17 years. Amortization
of intangible assets was $28.0 million, $24.8 million and $19.3 million in 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments. The carrying value of financial
instruments reported in the balance sheet for current assets and current
liabilities approximates fair value. The fair value of financial instruments
that are carried as long-term investments (other than those accounted for by the
equity method) was based principally on quoted market prices for those or
similar investments or by discounting future cash flows using a discount rate
that approximates the risk of the investments. The
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONCLUDED)
fair value of the Company's long-term debt instruments was based principally on
quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or the current rates
available to the Company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities.
The aggregate market value of the Company's long-term investments and long-term
debt at December 31, 1996 was approximately $631 million and $1,248 million, as
compared with the Company's aggregate carrying value of $601 million and $1,236
million, respectively, and at December 31, 1995 was approximately $157 million
and $1,603 million, as compared with the Company's aggregate carrying value of
$116 million and $1,577 million, respectively.
 
     Recently Issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards. Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 125, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing
of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities," and the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position No. 96-1,
"Environmental Remediation Liabilities," become effective in January 1997 and
will not have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.
 
ACQUISITIONS
 
     During the second quarter of 1996, the Company acquired The Moore Group
Ltd., a leading United Kingdom manufacturer of kitchen cabinets, and Horst
Breuer GmbH, a German manufacturer of shower enclosures. In the third quarter of
1996, the Company acquired E. Missel GmbH, a leading German manufacturer of
proprietary specialty products. The aggregate purchase price for these companies
was approximately $173 million and the acquisitions were accounted for as
purchase transactions. These companies had combined annual net sales in 1995 of
approximately $140 million.
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     In late November 1995, the Company's Board of Directors approved a formal
plan to dispose of the Company's home furnishings products segment. Operations
that were included in this segment were principally engaged in the manufacture
and sale of quality furniture, fabrics and other home furnishings. The
appropriate provisions were recorded in the fourth quarter of 1995 for the
estimated loss on the discontinued operations through the expected disposal
date, the reduction of assets to their estimated net realizable value and the
anticipated liabilities related to the disposal. The total provision amounted to
$650 million on a pre-tax and after-tax basis.
 
     During August 1996, the Company completed the sale of its home furnishings
products segment to Furnishings International Inc. Furnishings International's
investors include: 399 Venture Partners (a subsidiary of Citibank), certain
members of Furnishings International's management, the Company and certain
affiliates of Travelers Group Inc. Total proceeds to Masco from the sale were,
in millions:
 

 
     The junior debt securities mature in 2008. The Company will record dividend
income from the 13% cumulative preferred stock, with a stated value of $55
million, if and when such dividends are declared. The convertible preferred
stock represents transferable rights for up to a 25 percent common ownership,
although the Company is restricted from maintaining an ownership in excess of 20
percent of Furnishings International's common equity. As such, the Company will
not acquire additional
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS -- (CONCLUDED)
common equity, except for purposes of resale only. Of the cash proceeds received
from this sale, approximately $550 million was applied to reduce bank debt.
 
     Under a transitional services agreement, the Company provides
corporate-related services for a fee to Furnishings International through April
1997. Substantially all of these services will be discontinued after such date.
 
     Net sales and income from operations of the discontinued segment for the
eleven months ended November 30, 1995 and the year ended December 31, 1994 were
$1,852 million and $8.3 million, and $1,885 million and $21.0 million,
respectively. Income from operations of the discontinued segment for 1995 and
1994 is net of applicable income taxes of $22.0 million and $8.8 million,
respectively. The income tax rate of discontinued operations was higher in 1995
primarily due to higher taxes on foreign operations and decreased foreign tax
credits.
 
INVENTORIES
 

 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with
cost determined principally by use of the first-in, first-out method.
 
EQUITY INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES
 
     Equity investments in affiliates consist primarily of the following common
equity and partnership interests:
 

 
     Excluding the partnership interest in Hans Grohe, for which there is no
quoted market value, the aggregate market value of the Company's equity
investments at December 31, 1996 (which may differ from the amounts that could
then have been realized upon disposition), based upon quoted market prices at
that date, was $166 million, as compared with the Company's related aggregate
carrying value of $27 million.
 
     The Company's carrying value of its equity investments at December 31,
1996, approximated the Company's equity in the underlying net book value in
these affiliates, except for $20 million of excess carrying value pertaining to
the equity investment in MascoTech. Such excess is being amortized over a period
not to exceed 40 years.
 
     During October 1996, the Company completed the sale to MascoTech, Inc. of
17 million shares of MascoTech common stock and warrants to purchase 10 million
shares of MascoTech common stock.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
EQUITY INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES -- (CONCLUDED)
Under the sale agreement, the Company received approximately $266 million, with
$115 million cash paid at closing. The Company receives interest income at 6.625
percent on the $151 million balance of the consideration, which is due in
September 1997; this amount is included in non-current assets inasmuch as the
Company may receive publicly traded securities of Emco Limited held by
MascoTech, in payment of a substantial portion of this balance. The Company
recorded a 1996 fourth quarter net pre-tax gain of $67.8 million ($40.7 million
after-tax) from the sale.
 
     The transaction reduced the Company's common equity ownership in MascoTech
from 45 percent to 21 percent. This transaction, when considered along with the
conversion in mid-1997 of outstanding MascoTech preferred stock into MascoTech
common stock, will reduce the Company's ownership in MascoTech to approximately
17 percent (which equals the Company's voting interest at December 31, 1996).
MascoTech holds an option expiring in 2002 to require the Company to purchase up
to $200 million aggregate amount of subordinated debt securities of MascoTech.
 
     Approximate combined condensed financial data of the above-listed
affiliates are summarized in U.S. dollars as follows, in thousands:
 

 
     In December 1994, MascoTech announced and recorded a non-cash after-tax
charge of $315 million in anticipation of losses associated with the planned
disposition of its non-core businesses. As a result, the Company recorded its
equity share of this non-cash charge.
 
     Equity in undistributed earnings of affiliates of $32 million at December
31, 1996, $30 million at December 31, 1995 and $17 million at December 31, 1994
are included in consolidated retained earnings.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 

 
ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
LONG-TERM DEBT
 

 
     At December 31, 1996, all of the outstanding notes above are nonredeemable.
 
     The Company paid the 9% notes due April 15, 1996 through borrowings under
its bank revolving-credit agreement. The Company later in 1996 applied
approximately $550 million of the proceeds from the 1996 sale of the home
furnishings products businesses to reduce bank debt.
 
     European bank debt relates to borrowings for acquisitions and expansion
primarily in Germany. At December 31, 1996, approximately $134 million of
European debt relates to lines of credit in Germany, which are largely due and
payable in November 2000. The balance are short-term borrowings, which the
Company has classified as long-term since it is currently negotiating to replace
such debt with a new term loan expiring in 2002, or it can replace such debt
with the utilization of its existing bank revolving-credit agreement. Interest
is payable on European borrowings based upon various floating rates as selected
by the Company (approximately 4.5 percent at December 31, 1996).
 
     The 5.25% subordinated debentures due February 15, 2012 are convertible
into common stock at $42.28 per share.
 
     Certain debt agreements contain limitations on additional borrowings and
requirements for maintaining a certain level of tangible net worth. At December
31, 1996, the Company's tangible net worth exceeded the most restrictive of such
provisions by approximately $347 million.
 
     At December 31, 1996, the maturities of long-term debt during each of the
next five years were approximately as follows: 1997-$7.6 million; 1998-$16.7
million; 1999-$209.5 million; 2000-$154.8 million; and 2001-$277.2 million.
 
     The Company has a $750 million bank revolving-credit agreement, with any
outstanding balance due and payable in November 2001. Interest is payable on
borrowings under this agreement based upon various floating rates as selected by
the Company.
 
     The Company has on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, an
unallocated shelf registration pursuant to which the Company is able to issue up
to a combined $759 million of debt and equity securities.
 
     Interest paid was approximately $102 million, $115 million and $103 million
in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Amounts paid include interest pertaining
to discontinued operations.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
     On the basis of amounts paid (declared), cash dividends per share were $.77
($.78) in 1996, $.73 ($.74) in 1995 and $.69 ($.70) in 1994.
 
     In December 1995, the Company's Board of Directors announced the approval
of a Shareholder Rights Plan. The Rights were designed to enhance the Board's
ability to protect the Company's shareholders against, among other things,
unsolicited attempts to acquire control of the Company that do not offer an
adequate price to all shareholders or are otherwise not in the best interests of
the shareholders. The Rights were issued to shareholders of record in December
1995 and will expire in December 2005.
 
     In 1994, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up
to 10 million shares of its common stock in open-market transactions or
otherwise. Pursuant to this authorization, approximately 2.8 million common
shares were repurchased in 1994 at an aggregate cost of approximately $62
million.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
STOCK OPTIONS AND AWARDS
 
     The Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") provides for the
issuance of stock-based incentives in various forms. At December 31, 1996,
outstanding stock-based incentives were in the form of restricted long-term
stock awards and stock options.
 
     Pursuant to the Plan, the Company granted long-term stock awards, net, for
540,000, 1,250,000 and 598,000 shares of Company common stock during 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively, to key employees of the Company and affiliated
companies. These long-term stock awards do not cause share dilution inasmuch as
the Company reacquires an equal number of shares on the open market. The
weighted average grant date fair value per share of long-term stock awards
granted during 1996 and 1995 was $31 and $27, respectively. Compensation expense
for the vesting of long-term stock awards was $14.9 million, $13.3 million and
$10.7 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The unamortized costs of
unvested stock awards, aggregating approximately $78.3 million at December 31,
1996, are being amortized over the ten-year vesting periods.
 
     Fixed stock options are granted to key employees of the Company and
affiliated companies and have a maximum term of 10 years. The exercise price of
each fixed option equals the market price of the Company's common stock on the
date of grant. These options generally vest in installments beginning in the
third year and extending through the eighth year after grant.
 
     To demonstrate his commitment to enhance shareholder value, the Company's
Chief Executive Officer requested that his annual salary and bonus be reduced to
$1 per year effective January 1, 1996. The Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors, in acceding to this request, considered alternative compensation
arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer based upon the Board's own desire
to improve shareholder value, and accordingly in April 1996 granted the Chief
Executive Officer a ten-year option to purchase one million shares of Company
common stock. This option, however, will become exercisable only if the price of
Company common stock exceeds $41 per share within three years of the date of
grant or, if that target is not exceeded, exceeds $50 per share within five
years of the date of grant. The exercise price of this option is set at either
$41 or $50 per share, based on whether the three-year or five-year target is
met. The option will expire unexercised if neither target price is met.
 
     As a demonstration of their commitment to enhance shareholder value, the
officers and other key employees of the Company have also agreed to have a
significant portion of their compensation tied to stock options, with a grant
date fair value exercise price of $32, which are subject to accelerated
exercisability if the price of Company common stock exceeds $41 per share within
three years of the date of grant or, if that target is not met, exceeds $50 per
share within five years of the date of grant. Such options were granted for
approximately 1,615,000 shares of Company common stock in 1996. In addition, the
executive officers were granted career stock awards with annual vestings
commencing if and when the Company common stock price reaches $50 per share by
April 2001; if such stock price is not achieved, then vesting of these awards
will commence at retirement.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
STOCK OPTIONS AND AWARDS -- (CONCLUDED)
     A summary of the status of the Company's stock options granted under the
Plan or prior plans for the three years ended December 31, 1996 is presented
below.
 

 
     At December 31, 1996, a combined total of 8,188,000 shares of Company
common stock was available for the granting of stock options and long-term stock
awards under the Plan.
 
     The Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,"
and, accordingly, stock options do not constitute compensation expense in the
determination of net income in the statement of operations. Had stock option
compensation expense been determined pursuant to the methodology of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," the pro forma effect for 1996 would have been a reduction in the
Company's earnings per share of approximately $.03 or less than two percent,
which would not have been material.
 
     Pursuant to the 1984 Restricted Stock (MascoTech) Incentive Plan, the
Company may award to key employees of the Company and affiliated companies,
shares of common stock of MascoTech, Inc. held by the Company. No such awards
were granted in 1996, 1995 or 1994. At December 31, 1996, there were 4,695,000
of such shares available for granting future awards under this plan.
 
     The data in this note include discontinued operations.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS
 
     The Company sponsors defined-benefit pension plans and defined-contribution
retirement plans for most of its employees. In addition, substantially all
salaried employees participate in noncontributory profit-sharing plans, to which
payments are determined annually by the Directors. Aggregate charges to income
under the Company's pension and profit-sharing plans were $24.4 million in 1996,
$24.0 million in 1995 and $17.5 million in 1994.
 
     Net periodic pension cost for the Company's qualified pension plans
includes the following components:
 

 
     The funded status of the Company's qualified pension plans is summarized as
follows, in thousands, at December 31:
 

 
     Major assumptions used in accounting for the Company's pension plans are as
follows:
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS -- (CONCLUDED)
     In addition to the Company's qualified pension plans, the Company has
non-qualified unfunded supplemental pension plans covering certain employees,
which provide for pension benefits in addition to those provided by the
qualified pension plans. The actuarial present value of accumulated benefit
obligations and projected benefit obligations related to the Company's
non-qualified pension plans totalled $24.7 million and $30.2 million, and $17.6
million and $24.6 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively; net
periodic pension cost for these plans was $4.9 million, $3.7 million and $2.3
million in 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.
 
     The Company sponsors certain postretirement benefit plans that provide
medical, dental and life insurance coverage for eligible retirees and dependents
in the United States based on age and length of service. At December 31, 1996,
the aggregate present value of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
approximated $4.0 million.
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company is engaged principally in the manufacture, installation and
sale of home improvement and building products. In 1996, the Company categorized
its home improvement and building products businesses into the following
segments:
 
        Kitchen and Bath Products - kitchen and bath cabinets; kitchen
           appliances; faucets; plumbing fittings; bath and shower tubs and
           enclosures; whirlpools and spas; and bath accessories.
 
        Other Specialty Products - builders' hardware, including mechanical and
           electronic lock sets; venting and ventilating equipment; insulation;
           and water pumps.
 
     These products are sold to the home improvement and home construction
markets through mass merchandisers, hardware stores, home centers, distributors,
wholesalers and other outlets for consumers and contractors.
 
     The Company's operations are principally located in North America and
Europe. Segment information for 1995 and 1994 has been reclassified to conform
to the current year presentation.
 
     Corporate assets consist primarily of real property, cash and cash
investments and other investments.
 
     Pursuant to a corporate services agreement to provide MascoTech, Inc. with
certain corporate staff and administrative services, the Company charges a fee
approximating .8 percent of MascoTech net sales. This fee approximated $7
million in 1996, $9 million in 1995 and $11 million in 1994 and is included as a
reduction of general corporate expense.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION -- (CONCLUDED)
 
     The following table presents information about the Company by product
segment and geographic area:
 

 

 
(1) Included in net sales in 1996, 1995 and 1994 are export sales from the U.S.
    of $46.2 million, $40.9 million and $45.5 million, respectively.
 
(2) Intra-company sales between segments and geographic areas represented less
    than one percent of consolidated net sales in 1996, 1995 and 1994.
 
(3) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and net income
    pertaining to continuing foreign operations were $82 million and $40
    million, $96 million and $52 million, and $94 million and $56 million for
    1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
(4) Property additions include assets of acquired companies.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET
 

 
     Other interest income for 1996 includes $14.0 million of interest income
from the 12% pay-in-kind junior debt securities of Furnishings International
Inc.
 
     Other items in 1996 include $36.3 million of fourth quarter charges
primarily related to adjustments of miscellaneous assets to their estimated fair
value.
 
     Interest expense is presented net of interest expense pertaining to
discontinued operations of $21.8 million, $44.0 million and $43.2 million in
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
     Equity earnings from MascoTech for 1994 were $32 million, prior to the
Company's pre-tax equity share of MascoTech's non-cash 1994 fourth quarter
charge.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
INCOME TAXES
 

 
     Net deferred tax liability (asset) at December 31, 1996 and 1995 consists
of net short-term deferred tax assets of $14.5 million and $44.3 million,
respectively, and net long-term deferred tax liabilities of $43.1 million and
$44.0 million, respectively.
 
     A valuation allowance of $206.3 million has been recorded at December 31,
1996 due to the Company's inability to quantify the portion of its capital loss
benefit which may ultimately be realized. Such capital loss benefit results from
a $164.0 million after-tax capital loss carryforward on the disposition of the
Company's home furnishings products segment and a $42.3 million after-tax future
deductible temporary difference of a capital nature on the Company's equity
investments.
 
     At December 31, 1995, the Company had estimated a potential unrecorded
deferred tax asset of $230.0 million from the anticipated loss on disposition of
its home furnishings products segment. Following this disposition, the Company
estimates the potential useable capital loss benefit to be approximately $200.0
million. The 1996 tax provision included $36.0 million of this previously
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
INCOME TAXES -- (CONCLUDED)
unrecorded benefit, which was offset by the $42.3 million tax provision for the
valuation allowance provided on the deferred tax asset pertaining to the
Company's equity investments.
 
     The following is a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to the
effective tax rate allocated to income from continuing operations before income
tax:
 

 
     Income taxes paid were approximately $201 million, $170 million and $175
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Amounts paid include taxes on
discontinued operations.
 
     Earnings of foreign subsidiaries generally become subject to U.S. tax upon
the remittance of dividends and under certain other circumstances. Provision has
not been made at December 31, 1996 for U.S. or additional foreign withholding
taxes on approximately $32 million of remaining undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries, as those earnings are intended to be permanently
reinvested; it is not practical to estimate the amount of deferred tax liability
on such earnings.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 
     The following presents the combined financial statements of the Company,
MascoTech, Inc. and TriMas Corporation as one entity, with Masco Corporation as
the parent company. These combined financial statements present the Company's
home furnishings products segment as discontinued operations. (See "Discontinued
Operations" note.) Intercompany transactions have been eliminated. Amounts,
except earnings per share, are in thousands.
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) -- (CONTINUED)
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) -- (CONCLUDED)
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONCLUDED)
 
INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
 

 
     The fourth quarter of 1996 includes a $67.8 million net pre-tax gain from
the sale of certain MascoTech, Inc. investments ($40.7 million after-tax or $.25
per share). This gain was principally offset by fourth quarter charges
aggregating $49.1 million pre-tax ($37.5 million after-tax or $.23 per share)
primarily for adjustments of miscellaneous assets to their estimated fair value.
 
     Fourth quarter 1995 net loss and loss per share reflect the Company's $650
million non-cash pre-tax and after-tax charge for the disposition of its home
furnishings products segment.
 
     Quarterly net sales and gross profit amounts exclude net sales and gross
profit of the Company's home furnishings products segment, which the Company
classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of 1995. Net
sales and gross profit of the Company's home furnishings products segment for
the 1995 quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 were
$505 million and $128.4 million, $494 million and $121.2 million, $497 million
and $115.5 million and $518 million and $123.8 million, respectively.
 

 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
     Information regarding executive officers required by this Item is set forth
as a Supplementary Item at the end of Part I hereof (pursuant to Instruction 3
to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K). Other information required by this Item will
be contained in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed on or before April 30, 1997, and such
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     Information required by this Item will be contained in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed on or before April 30, 1997, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
     Information required by this Item will be contained in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed on or before April 30, 1997, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     Information required by this Item will be contained in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed on or before April 30, 1997, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     (A) LISTING OF DOCUMENTS.
 
        (1) Financial Statements. The Company's Consolidated Financial
           Statements included in Item 8 hereof, as required at December 31,
           1996 and 1995, and for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and
           1994, consist of the following:
 
                        Consolidated Balance Sheets
                        Consolidated Statements of Operations
                        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
        (2) Financial Statement Schedules.
 

 
        (3) Exhibits.
 

 






 
- -------------------------
(1) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 13, 1996.
 
(2) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.
 
(3) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.
 
(4) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994.
 
(5) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.
 

 
(6) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1993.
 
(7) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.
 
     THE COMPANY WILL FURNISH ITS STOCKHOLDERS A COPY OF ANY OF THE ABOVE
EXHIBITS NOT INCLUDED HEREIN UPON THE WRITTEN REQUEST OF SUCH STOCKHOLDER AND
THE PAYMENT TO THE COMPANY OF THE REASONABLE EXPENSES INCURRED BY THE COMPANY IN
FURNISHING SUCH COPY OR COPIES.
 
(B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     The following Current Report on Form 8-K was filed by Masco Corporation
during the quarter ended December 31, 1996:
 
     1. Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 13, 1996 reporting under Item
        5. "Other Events" the Company's sale of MascoTech, Inc. common stock and
        warrants to purchase common stock.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                          MASCO CORPORATION
 
                                          By     /s/ RICHARD G. MOSTELLER
 
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                    RICHARD G. MOSTELLER
                                              Senior Vice President -- Finance
 
March 27, 1997
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 

 
                                                                  March 27, 1997
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
                     PURSUANT TO ITEM 14(A)(2) OF FORM 10-K
 
            ANNUAL REPORT TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 Schedules, as required, for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994:
 

 
                                       F-1

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
                 SCHEDULE II. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
NOTES:
 
  (A) Allowance of companies acquired and companies disposed of, net.
 
  (B) Deductions, representing uncollectible accounts written off, less
      recoveries of accounts written off in prior years.
 
                                       F-2

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors
  and Shareholders of MascoTech, Inc.:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of MascoTech,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related
consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1996 and the financial statement schedule as
listed in Item 14(a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this Form 10-K. These financial
statements and the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepting auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of MascoTech, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
required to be included therein.
 
     As discussed in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements,
effective January 1, 1996, the Company changed its method of accounting for the
impairment of long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be disposed of.
 
COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
Detroit, Michigan
February 28, 1997
 
                                       F-3

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
                           DECEMBER 31, 1996 AND 1995
 
                                     ASSETS
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-4

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-5

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-6

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
 
     Principles of Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and all majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant
intercompany transactions have been eliminated. Corporations that are 20 to 50
percent owned are accounted for by the equity method of accounting; ownership
less than 20 percent is accounted for on the cost basis unless the Company
exercises significant influence over the investee. Capital transactions by
equity affiliates, which change the Company's ownership interest at amounts
differing from the Company's carrying amount, are reflected in other income or
expense and the investment in affiliates account.
 
     The consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 1996 reflects the
segregation of net current and net non-current assets related to the disposition
of the Company's Technical Services Group ("TSG") and, at December 31, 1995,
reflects the segregation of assets related to the plan adopted in late 1994 to
dispose of certain businesses.
 
     The Company has a corporate services agreement with Masco Corporation,
which at December 31, 1996 owned approximately 21 percent of the Company's
Common Stock. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company pays fees to Masco
Corporation for various corporate staff support and administrative services,
research and development and facilities. Such fees, which are determined
principally as a percentage of net sales, aggregated approximately $7 million in
1996, $9 million in 1995, and $11 million in 1994.
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires the Company to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements. Such estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ
from such estimates and assumptions.
 
     Cash and Cash Investments. The Company considers all highly liquid debt
instruments with an initial maturity of three months or less to be cash and cash
investments. The carrying amount reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash
investments approximates fair value.
 
     Marketable Securities. The Company's marketable equity securities holdings
are categorized as either trading or available-for-sale securities, and, as a
result, are stated at fair value. Changes in the fair value of trading
securities are recognized in earnings and the changes in the fair value of
available-for-sale securities are recorded in shareholders' equity, net of
deferred taxes.
 
     Receivables. Receivables are presented net of allowances for doubtful
accounts of approximately $2.0 million at both December 31, 1996 and 1995.
 
     Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable
value, with cost determined principally by use of the first-in, first-out
method.
 
     Property and Equipment, Net. Property and equipment additions, including
significant betterments, are recorded at cost. Upon retirement or disposal of
property and equipment, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from
the accounts, and any gain or loss is included in income. Repair and maintenance
costs are charged to expense as incurred.
 
     Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation is computed principally using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Annual
depreciation rates are as follows: buildings and land improvements, 2 1/2 to 10
percent, and machinery and equipment, 6 2/3 to 33 1/3 percent. Deferred
financing costs are amortized over the lives of the related debt securities. The
excess of cost over net assets of acquired companies is amortized using the
straight-line method over the period estimated to be benefitted, not exceeding
40 years. At each balance sheet date, management assesses whether there
 
                                       F-7

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
has been a permanent impairment of the excess of cost over net assets of
acquired companies by comparing anticipated undiscounted future cash flows from
operating activities with the carrying amount of the excess of cost over net
assets of acquired companies. The factors considered by management in performing
this assessment include current operating results, business prospects, market
trends, potential product obsolescence, competitive activities and other
economic factors. Based on this assessment, there was no permanent impairment
related to the excess of cost over net assets of acquired companies at December
31, 1996.
 
     At December 31, 1996 and 1995, accumulated amortization of the excess of
cost over net assets of acquired companies and patents was $29.4 million and
$42.3 million, respectively. Amortization expense was $8.5 million, $13.7
million and $22.9 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
     Income Taxes. The Company records income taxes in accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 ("SFAS No. 109"), "Accounting for
Income Taxes." SFAS No. 109 is an asset and liability approach that requires the
recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax
consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company's financial
statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, SFAS No. 109
generally allows consideration of all expected future events other than
enactments of changes in the tax law or tax rates. A provision has not been made
for U.S. or additional foreign withholding taxes on approximately $47 million of
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as those earnings are intended to
be permanently reinvested. Generally, such earnings become subject to U.S. tax
upon the remittance of dividends and under certain other circumstances. It is
not practicable to estimate the amount of deferred tax liability on such
undistributed earnings.
 
     Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share. Primary earnings per common share are
based on the weighted average shares of common stock and common stock
equivalents outstanding (including the dilutive effect of options and warrants,
utilizing the treasury stock method) of 53.8 million and 57.1 million in 1996
and 1995, respectively. Primary loss per common share in 1994 is based on 58.9
million weighted average shares of common stock outstanding. The effect of
options and warrants on earnings per common share in 1994 would be
anti-dilutive. Primary earnings (loss) per common share are calculated on
earnings (loss) after deducting preferred stock dividends of $13.0 million in
each of 1996, 1995 and 1994.
 
     Fully diluted earnings per common share is presented only when the assumed
conversion of convertible securities is dilutive. Convertible securities did not
have a dilutive effect on earnings (loss) per common share in 1996, 1995 or
1994. Fully diluted earnings per common share is presented in 1996 due to the
utilization of the treasury stock method.
 
     In late 1996, the Company purchased from Masco Corporation 17 million
shares of MascoTech common stock and warrants to purchase 10 million shares of
MascoTech common stock. These shares and warrants have been retired. If such
retirement had taken place at the beginning of 1996, the pro forma primary and
fully diluted earnings per common and common equivalent share amounts would have
been $.78 and $.77, respectively, in 1996.
 
     Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements. At January 1, 1996, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and
for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," which resulted in a pre-tax gain
(because the fair value of the businesses being held for sale at January 1, 1996
exceeded the carrying value for such businesses) of $16.7 million ($11.7 million
after-tax), recorded as the cumulative effect of an accounting change. The pro
forma effect of the retroactive application of the change on the financial
statements for the years prior to 1996 has not been presented because the new
method did not have a material effect on the earnings reported for those years.
The Company adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for
 
                                       F-8

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Stock-Based Compensation," effective with the 1996 financial statements, and
elected to continue to measure compensation cost using the intrinsic value
method, in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees." Accordingly, no compensation cost for stock options has been
recognized. If compensation cost had been determined based on the estimated fair
value of options granted in 1996 and 1995, consistent with the methodology in
SFAS No. 123, the pro forma effects on the Company's net income and income per
common share would not have been material. SFAS No. 125, "Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities,"
and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of
Position No. 96-1, "Environmental Remediation Liabilities," become effective in
1997 and will not have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.
The Company expects that SFAS No. 128, "Earnings Per Share," will not have a
material impact on earnings per share when adopted in 1997.
 
SUPPLEMENTARY CASH FLOWS INFORMATION:
 
     Significant transactions not affecting cash were: in 1996: in addition to
cash received, approximately $25 million comprised of both common stock and
warrants (with a portion of the common stock subsequently sold for approximately
$14 million of cash), as consideration from the sale of MascoTech Stamping
Technologies, Inc.; in addition to the cash payment by the Company of $121
million, notes approximating $159 million were issued for the purchase of 18
million shares of the Company's Common Stock and warrants to purchase 10 million
shares of the Company's Common Stock (see "Shareholders' Equity" note); in 1995:
in addition to cash received, approximately $34 million comprised of both notes
receivable due from, and a 29 percent equity interest in, the acquiring company,
as consideration for a non-core business unit.
 
     Income taxes paid (refunded) were $(12) million, $11 million and $28
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Interest paid was $30 million, $55
million and $61 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
DISPOSITIONS OF OPERATIONS:
 
     In late 1994, the Company adopted a plan to dispose, by sale or
liquidation, a number of businesses, including its architectural products,
defense and certain of its transportation-related products and services
businesses, as part of its long-term strategic plan to increase the focus on its
core operating capabilities. Through dates of sale, the businesses held for
disposition had sales of approximately $90 million, $468 million and $637
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, and operating losses before gains
(charge) on disposition of businesses, net of $14 million, $11 million and $7
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. At December 31, 1996, the Company
has substantially completed the disposition of such businesses, and the
liability for accrued exit costs approximates $17 million, including
approximately $11 million related to post-employment benefits.
 
     The Company's carrying value of a number of the businesses disposed of
exceeded the estimated proceeds expected from such dispositions. To reflect the
estimated loss on the disposition of these businesses, the Company in 1994
recorded a non-cash charge aggregating $400 million pre-tax (approximately $315
million after-tax or $5.35 per common share) for those businesses for which a
loss was anticipated.
 
     During 1995, the Company divested a number of such businesses, in separate
transactions, for aggregate proceeds of approximately $180 million, which
resulted in net gains of approximately $25 million. These net gains were
substantially offset by reductions in the estimated net proceeds the Company
expected to receive from certain remaining businesses to be sold, aggregating
approximately $12 million, and by certain exit costs incurred in 1995
aggregating approximately $8 million.
 
     In May, 1996, the Company sold MascoTech Stamping Technologies, Inc.
(MSTI), a wholly owned subsidiary, to Tower Automotive, Inc. (Tower) resulting
in an after-tax loss of approximately $26
 
                                       F-9

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
million ($.47 per common share), including after-tax losses of approximately $1
million related to the closure of a MSTI manufacturing facility not included in
the sale. The Company received initial consideration of approximately $80
million, consisting principally of $55 million in cash, 785,000 shares of Tower
common stock and warrants to purchase additional Tower common stock. The Company
applied the cash proceeds (including approximately $14 million received from the
subsequent sale of 600,000 shares of Tower common stock) to reduce its
indebtedness. The Company may receive additional consideration, contingent upon
the future earnings of MSTI over the next three years, which, if entirely
earned, would substantially offset the loss.
 
     On January 3, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its Technical
Services Group (comprised of the Company's engineering and technical business
services units) to MSX International, Inc. Also included in this transaction
were the net assets of APX International which were acquired by the Company in
November, 1996 for approximately $44 million. The sale will result in total
proceeds to the Company of approximately $145 million, subject to certain
adjustments, consisting of cash, subordinated debentures, preferred stock and an
approximate 45 percent common equity interest in MSX International, Inc. Net
proceeds to the Company will approximate $90 million, after taking into account
the purchase price for APX International and taxes payable in connection with
this transaction. The excess of the consideration received by the Company over
the book value of the related net assets has been deferred and will be
recognized when cash is received. The net assets of the Technical Services Group
and APX International are reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as net
assets of businesses held for disposition at December 31, 1996. The Company has
not reflected any revenues or expenses in the consolidated statement of
operations related to APX International from the date of acquisition through
December 31, 1996 as control was deemed to be temporary.
 
     The disposition of businesses held for sale or sold, including MSTI and
TSG, did not meet the criteria for discontinued operations treatment for
accounting purposes; accordingly, the sales and results of operations of these
businesses were included in continuing operations until disposition. Businesses
held for sale or sold, including MSTI and TSG, had sales of approximately $412
million, $874 million and $964 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, and
operating income (losses) before gains (charge) on disposition of businesses,
net of $(13) million, $5 million and $8 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.
 
     In late 1993, the Company adopted a plan to divest the business units in
its energy segment. Certain of the remaining business units were sold in 1994 at
prices greater than those used in estimating the loss on disposition in 1993,
resulting in a reversal in 1994 of approximately $18 million pre-tax ($11.7
million after-tax) of the charge established in 1993.
 
     Amounts included in the consolidated balance sheet for net assets of
businesses held for disposition consist of the following at December 31, 1996
and 1995:
 

 
                                      F-10

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
INVENTORIES:
 

 
EQUITY AND OTHER INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES:
 
     Equity and other investments in affiliates consist primarily of the
following common stock interests in publicly traded affiliates:
 

 
     TriMas Corporation ("TriMas") is a diversified manufacturer of commercial,
industrial and consumer products. Emco Limited ("Emco") is a Canadian-based
manufacturer and distributor of building and other industrial products. Titan
Wheel International, Inc. ("Titan") is a manufacturer of wheels, tires and other
products for agricultural, construction and off-highway equipment markets. At
December 31, 1996, the investments in Titan common stock and in Emco convertible
and other debt are classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale
securities. Accordingly, these investments have been recorded at fair value
which was in excess of their carrying value resulting in unrealized gains of
approximately $8 million pre-tax which have been reflected as an adjustment to
shareholders' equity, net of deferred taxes of $3 million, at December 31, 1996.
 
     The carrying amount of investments in affiliates at December 31, 1996 and
1995 and quoted market values at December 31, 1996 for publicly traded
affiliates (which may differ from the amounts that could have been realized upon
disposition) are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-11

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     During 1994, the Company sold a portion of its common stock holdings in
TriMas, decreasing the Company's common equity ownership interest in TriMas to
41 percent, and resulting in a pre-tax gain of $17.9 million.
 
     In June, 1995, Titan sold newly issued common stock in a public offering
and issued common stock as a result of the conversion of convertible securities.
The Company recognized pre-tax income of approximately $5.1 million as a result
of the change in the Company's common equity ownership interest in Titan.
 
     In December, 1996, Titan called for redemption its 4 3/4% Convertible
Subordinated Notes which resulted in the issuance of approximately 4.5 million
common shares, reducing the Company's common equity ownership interest in Titan
to approximately 12 percent. As a result, the investment in Titan has been
classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale.
 
     In addition to its equity and other investments in publicly traded
affiliates, the Company has equity and other investment interests in privately
held manufacturers of automotive components, including the Company's common
equity ownership interest in Delco Remy International, Inc., a manufacturer of
automotive electric motors and other components (acquired in 1994), and Saturn
Electronics & Engineering, Inc., a manufacturer of electromechanical and
electronic automotive components (acquired in 1995).
 
     Equity in undistributed earnings of affiliates of $57 million at December
31, 1996, $38 million at December 31, 1995 and $24 million at December 31, 1994
are included in consolidated retained earnings.
 
     Approximate combined condensed financial data of the Company's equity
affiliates accounted for under the equity method are as follows:
 

 

 
                                      F-12

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Equity and interest income from affiliates consists of the following:
 

 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET:
 

 
     Depreciation expense totalled $37 million, $38 million and $44 million in
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
ACCRUED LIABILITIES:
 

 
                                      F-13

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
LONG-TERM DEBT:
 

 
     The interest rates applicable to the revolving credit agreement are
principally at alternative floating rates provided for in the agreement
(approximately six percent at December 31, 1996). In early 1997, the Company
amended the revolving credit agreement; as a result, the new $575 million
revolving credit agreement is due 2002.
 
     The amended revolving credit agreement requires the maintenance of a
specified level of tangible shareholders' equity as defined, with limitations on
the ratios of senior debt to earnings and debt to equity (as defined). Under the
most restrictive of these provisions, approximately $70 million was available at
December 31, 1996 for the payment of cash dividends and the acquisition of
Company Capital Stock.
 
     The note held by Masco Corporation was part of the consideration paid by
the Company for the purchase of 17 million shares of MascoTech common stock and
warrants to purchase 10 million shares of MascoTech common stock from Masco
Corporation. Although the note payable to Masco Corporation is due September 30,
1997, it is classified as non-current at December 31, 1996 as the Company has
the intent and the ability to refinance this borrowing on a long-term basis.
 
     On March 15, 1995, the Company redeemed at maturity $233 million of its 10%
Senior Subordinated Notes utilizing its bank revolving credit agreement. During
1994, the Company recognized extraordinary income of $4.4 million pre-tax ($2.6
million after-tax) related to the early extinguishment of a portion of the
4 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Debentures.
 
     The maturities of debt during the next five years are as follows (taking
into account the amended credit agreement and assuming the short-term debt
referred to above is refinanced by the amended credit agreement) (in millions):
1997 - $3; 1998 - $3; 1999 - $3; 2000 - $3; and 2001 - $1.
 
                                      F-14

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:
 

 
     In July, 1993, the Company issued 10.8 million shares of 6% Dividend
Enhanced Convertible Stock (DECS, classified as Convertible Preferred Stock) at
$20 per share ($216 million aggregate liquidation amount) in a public offering.
On July 1, 1997, each of the then outstanding shares of the DECS will convert
into one share of Company Common Stock, if not previously redeemed by the
Company or converted at the option of the holder, in both cases for Company
Common Stock.
 
     Each share of the DECS is convertible at the option of the holder anytime
prior to July 1, 1997 into .806 of a share of Company Common Stock, equivalent
to a conversion price of $24.81 per share of Company Common Stock. Dividends are
cumulative and each share of the DECS has 4/5 of a vote, voting together as one
class with holders of Company Common Stock.
 
     The Company, at its option, may redeem the DECS at a call price payable in
shares of Company Common Stock principally determined by a formula based on the
then current market price of Company Common Stock. Redemption by the Company, as
a practical matter, will generally not result in a call price that exceeds one
share of Company Common Stock or is less than .806 of a share of Company Common
Stock (resulting from the holder's conversion option).
 
     On October 31, 1996, the Company purchased from Masco Corporation 17
million shares of MascoTech common stock and warrants to purchase 10 million
shares of MascoTech common stock, for cash and notes approximating $266 million.
Payment of the note, which approximates $151 million and bears interest at 6 5/8
percent, is due September 30, 1997 and is payable in cash or at the Company's
 
                                      F-15

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
option partially by the transfer of its holdings in its equity affiliate, Emco
Limited. As part of this transaction, Richard A. Manoogian, Chairman of both
Masco Corporation and MascoTech, also sold to MascoTech one million shares of
MascoTech common stock (at the then current market price) for approximately
$13.6 million, for cash and a $7.6 million note bearing interest at 6 5/8
percent, payable on September 30, 1997. In addition, as part of this
transaction, Masco Corporation's agreement to purchase from the Company, at the
Company's option, up to $200 million of subordinated debentures was extended
through 2002, and the corporate services agreement with Masco Corporation was
extended until September 30, 1998. Masco Corporation also agreed that MascoTech
will have the right of first refusal to purchase the approximate 7.8 million
shares of MascoTech common stock that Masco Corporation continues to hold,
should Masco Corporation decide to dispose of such shares.
 
     In addition, during each of 1996 and 1995, the Company repurchased and
retired approximately one million shares of its common stock in open-market
purchases, pursuant to a Board of Directors' authorized repurchase program. At
December 31, 1996, the Company may repurchase approximately four million
additional shares of Company Common Stock and Convertible Preferred Stock
pursuant to this repurchase authorization.
 
     Under a Stock Repurchase Agreement, Masco Corporation has the right to sell
to the Company, at approximate fair market value, shares of Company Common Stock
following the occurrence of certain events that would result in an increase in
Masco Corporation's ownership percentage in excess of 49 percent of the then
outstanding shares of Company Common Stock. Such events include repurchases of
Company Common Stock initiated by MascoTech or any of its subsidiaries, and
reacquisitions of Company Common Stock through forfeitures of shares previously
awarded by the Company pursuant to its employee stock incentive plans. In each
case, MascoTech has control over the amount of Company Common Stock it would
ultimately acquire, including shares subject to repurchase under the Stock
Repurchase Agreement. The aforementioned rights expire 30 days from the date
notice is given by MascoTech. To the extent these rights have been exercised at
any balance sheet date, the Company would reclassify from permanent capital an
amount representative of the repurchase obligation.
 
     On the basis of amounts paid (declared), cash dividends per common share
were $.18 ($.18) in 1996, $.14 ($.11) in 1995 and $.10 ($.11) in 1994.
 
STOCK OPTIONS AND AWARDS:
 
     The Company's Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") provides for the
issuance of stock-based incentives in various forms. At December 31, 1996,
outstanding stock-based incentives are in the form of restricted long-term stock
awards and stock options.
 
     Pursuant to the Plan, the Company granted long-term stock awards, net, for
480,000, 461,000 and 213,000 shares of Company Common Stock during 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively, to key employees of the Company and affiliated
companies. The weighted average grant date fair value per share of long-term
stock awards granted during 1996 and 1995 was $14 and $12, respectively.
Compensation expense for the vesting of long-term stock awards was approximately
$2.3 million, $4.8 million and $3.3 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The unamortized costs of unvested stock awards, aggregating
approximately $26 million at December 31, 1996, are being amortized over the
ten-year vesting periods.
 
     Fixed stock options are granted to key employees of the Company and
affiliated companies and have a maximum term of 10 years. The exercise price of
each fixed option equals the market price of Company Common Stock on the date of
grant. These options either vest no later than 10 years after grant or in
installments beginning in the third year and extending through the eighth year
after grant.
 
                                      F-16

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     A summary of the status of the Company's stock options granted under the
Plan or prior plans for the three years ended December 31, 1996 is presented
below.
 

 
     At December 31, 1996, options have been granted and are outstanding with
exercise prices ranging from $4 1/2 to $26 per share, the fair market value at
the dates of grant.
 
     At December 31, 1996 and 1995, a combined total of 4,656,000 and 5,646,000
shares, respectively, of Company Common Stock were available for the granting of
options and incentive awards under the above plans.
 
     The Company has elected to continue to apply the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25 and, accordingly, no stock option compensation
expense is included in the determination of net income in the statement of
operations. The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was
$6.20 in 1996. Had stock option compensation expense been determined pursuant to
the methodology of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the pro forma effects on the
Company's earnings and earnings per common share in 1996, 1995 and 1994 would
not have been material.
 
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:
 
     Pension and Profit-Sharing Benefits. The Company sponsors defined-benefit
pension plans for most of its employees. In addition, substantially all salaried
employees participate in noncontributory profit-sharing plans, to which payments
are approved annually by the Directors. Aggregate charges to income under these
plans were $11.0 million in 1996, $13.0 million in 1995 and $9.8 million in
1994.
 
     Net periodic pension cost for the Company's defined-benefit pension plans
includes the following components for the three years ended December 31, 1996:
 

 
                                      F-17

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Major assumptions used in accounting for the Company's defined-benefit
pension plans are as follows:
 

 
     The funded status of the Company's defined-benefit pension plans at
December 31, 1996 and 1995 is as follows:
 

 
     Postretirement Benefits. The Company provides postretirement medical and
life insurance benefits for certain of its active and retired employees.
 
     The Company records its postretirement benefit plans in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106 ("SFAS No. 106"),
"Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions." This
statement requires the accrual method of accounting for postretirement health
care and life insurance based on actuarially determined costs to be recognized
over the period from the date of hire to the full eligibility date of employees
who are expected to qualify for such benefits. In conjunction with SFAS No. 106,
the Company recognizes the transition obligation on a prospective basis with the
net transition obligation amortized over 20 years. Net periodic postretirement
benefit cost includes the following components for the years ended December 31,
1996, 1995 and 1994:
 

 
                                      F-18

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Postretirement benefit obligations, none of which are funded, are
summarized as follows at December 31, 1996 and 1995:
 

 
     The discount rate used in determining the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation was 7.25 percent in both 1996 and 1995. The assumed health
care cost trend rate in 1996 was 12 percent, decreasing to an ultimate rate in
the year 2002 of seven percent. If the assumed medical cost trend rates were
increased by one percent, the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
would increase by $1.6 million and the aggregate of the service and interest
cost components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost would increase by
$.2 million. Included in the Company's 1994 charge for the disposition of
certain businesses are curtailment costs for postretirement benefit obligations
relating to these businesses of approximately $3.7 million.
 
                                      F-19

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION:
 
     The Company's business segments involve the sale of the following products
and services:
 
        Transportation-Related Products and Services:
 
           Precision products, generally produced using advanced metalworking
               technologies with significant proprietary content, and
               aftermarket products for the transportation industry.
 
           Engineering and technical business services.
 
        Specialty Products:
 
           Other Industrial -- Principally doors, windows, security grilles and
               office panels and partitions for commercial and residential
               markets.
 
     The Company's export sales approximated $75 million, $85 million and $102
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
     Corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash investments, marketable
securities, equity and other investments in affiliates and notes receivable.
 
                                      F-20

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

 

 
(A) Included within this segment are sales to one customer of $232 million, $397
    million and $361 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively; sales to
    another customer of $146 million, $182 million and $225 million in 1996,
    1995 and 1994, respectively; sales to a third customer of $122 million, $178
    million and $212 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively; and sales to
    a fourth customer of $155 million, $136 million and $111 million in 1996,
    1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
(B) Operating profit in 1996 includes a $32 million pre-tax loss principally
    from the sale of MascoTech Stamping Technologies, Inc. This charge impacted
    the Company's Transportation-Related Products and Services industry segment.
    Operating profit in 1995 includes $25 million in net gains resulting from
    sales of non-core businesses in the third quarter. These net gains were
    substantially offset by reductions in the estimated proceeds the Company
    expected to receive from businesses to be sold, aggregating $12 million, and
    by certain exit costs incurred in 1995 aggregating approximately $8 million.
    The net gains (charge) impact the Company's industry segments as follows:
    Transportation-Related Products and Services -- $21 million and Specialty
    Products -- $(2) million. The remaining $(14) million of the net gains
    (charge) was allocated to General Corporate Expense. Operating loss in 1994
    includes the impact of a pre-tax charge in the amount of $400 million for
    the disposition of businesses. The charge impacts the Company's industry
    segments as follows: Transportation-Related Products and Services -- $196
    million and Specialty Products -- $191 million. The remaining $13 million of
    the charge was allocated to General Corporate Expense.
 
(C) Assets employed at December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 include net assets
    related to the disposition of certain operations (see "Dispositions of
    Operations" note).
 
(D) Property additions include approximately $2 million and $14 million in 1996
    and 1995, respectively, of capital expenditures for those businesses held
    for disposition related to the plan adopted in late 1994.
 
(E) Depreciation and amortization expense include approximately $5 million in
    1995 of expense for those businesses held for disposition related to the
    plan adopted in late 1994.
 
(F) The Company's foreign operations are located principally in Western Europe.
 
                                      F-21

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET:
 

 
     Gains and losses realized from sales of marketable securities and gains
from sales of common stock of equity affiliates are determined on a specific
identification basis at the time of sale.
 
INCOME TAXES:
 

 
                                      F-22

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The components of deferred taxes at December 31, 1996 and 1995 are as
follows:
 

 
     Net current and non-current assets of businesses held for disposition at
December 31, 1995 include approximately $41 million of the foregoing deferred
tax assets.
 
     The following is a reconciliation of tax computed at the U.S. federal
statutory rate to the provision for income taxes (credit) allocated to income
(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (credit), extraordinary
item and cumulative effect of accounting change, net:
 

 
                                      F-23

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:
 
     In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107,
"Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," the following methods
were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments:
 
MARKETABLE SECURITIES, NOTES RECEIVABLE AND OTHER ASSETS
 
     Fair values of financial instruments included in marketable securities,
notes receivable and other assets were estimated using various methods including
quoted market prices and discounted future cash flows based on the incremental
borrowing rates for similar types of investments. In addition, for variable-rate
notes receivable that fluctuate with the prime rate, the carrying amounts
approximate fair value.
 
LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     The carrying amount of bank debt and certain other long-term debt
instruments approximate fair value as the floating rates inherent in this debt
reflect changes in overall market interest rates. The fair values of the
Company's subordinated debt instruments are based on quoted market prices. The
fair values of certain other debt instruments are estimated by discounting
future cash flows based on the Company's incremental borrowing rate for similar
types of debt instruments.
 
     The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company's financial instruments
at December 31, 1996 and 1995 are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-24

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
INTERIM AND OTHER SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED):
 

 
     Since dilution occurs in the first quarter 1996, earnings per common share
is presented on a fully diluted basis. However, earnings per common share on
income before accounting change item is anti-dilutive.
 
     Results for the second quarter 1996 include an after-tax loss of
approximately $26 million related to the sale of MascoTech Stamping
Technologies, Inc.
 
     Net income for the first quarter of 1996 includes an after-tax gain of
approximately $12 million as a result of the adoption of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," effective January 1, 1996
which was recorded as a cumulative effect of an accounting change.
 
     The 1996 income (loss) per common share amounts for the quarters do not
total to the full year amounts due to the purchase and retirement of shares
throughout the year.
 
                                      F-25

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONCLUDED)
 
     Results for the third quarter of 1995 include net gains aggregating
approximately $25 million from the sale of certain businesses held for
disposition. These net gains were offset by reductions in the estimated net
proceeds the Company expected to receive from businesses to be sold, aggregating
$12 million and by certain exit costs incurred in 1995 aggregating approximately
$8 million.
 
     Results for the second quarter of 1995 include pre-tax income of
approximately $5 million as a result of gains associated with the sale of common
stock through a public offering by an equity affiliate.
 
     The following supplemental unaudited financial data combine the Company
with TriMas and have been presented for analytical purposes. The Company had a
common equity ownership interest in TriMas of approximately 41 percent at
December 31, 1996 and December 31, 1995. The interests of the other common
shareholders are reflected below as "Equity of other shareholders of TriMas."
All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
 

 

 
                                      F-26

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
                     PURSUANT TO ITEM 14(A)(2) OF FORM 10-K
 
            ANNUAL REPORT TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
Schedule, as required for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994:
 

 
                                      F-27

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                 SCHEDULE II. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994
 

 
NOTES:
 
(A) Allowance of companies reclassified for businesses held for disposition, and
    other adjustments, net in 1996, 1995 and 1994. Allowance of companies
    acquired, and other adjustments, net in 1995.
 
(B) Deductions, representing uncollectible accounts written off, less recoveries
    of accounts written off in prior years.
 
                                      F-28

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 





 
- ---------------
 
(1) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 13, 1996.
 
(2) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.
 
(3) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.
 
(4) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994.
 
(5) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993.
 
(6) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1993.
 
(7) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco Corporation's
    Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

