
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-5794
 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 313-274-7400
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                      NONE
 
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT: (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS, AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH FILING
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.     YES /X/     NO / /
 
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K.  /X/
 
THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK HELD BY
NON-AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT ON MARCH 1, 1996 (BASED ON THE CLOSING SALE
PRICE OF $28  1/2 OF THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK, AS REPORTED ON THE NEW YORK
STOCK EXCHANGE COMPOSITE TAPE ON SUCH DATE) WAS APPROXIMATELY $4,407,870,000.
 
NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AT MARCH 1, 1996:
 
         160,382,079 SHARES OF COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $1.00 PER SHARE
 
PORTIONS OF THE REGISTRANT'S DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT TO BE FILED FOR ITS 1996
ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO PART III OF
THIS REPORT.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                

 

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS.
 
     Masco Corporation is engaged principally in the manufacture, installation
and sale of home improvement and building products. Masco believes that it is
the largest domestic manufacturer of faucets, kitchen and bath cabinets and
plumbing supplies and that it is a leading domestic producer of a number of
other home improvement and building products. Masco was incorporated under the
laws of Michigan in 1929 and in 1968 was reincorporated under the laws of
Delaware.
 
     Except as the context otherwise indicates, the terms "Masco" and the
"Company" refer to Masco Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
     The Company is among the country's largest manufacturers of brand-name
consumer products designed for the improvement and building of the home,
including faucets, kitchen and bath cabinets, kitchen appliances, bath and
shower enclosure units, spas and hot tubs, other shower, bath and plumbing
specialties and accessories, door locks and other builders' hardware, air
treatment products, venting and ventilating equipment and water pumps. These
products are sold for the home improvement and home construction markets through
mass merchandisers, hardware stores, home centers, distributors, wholesalers and
other outlets to consumers and contractors.
 
     The Company manufactures a variety of single and double handle faucets.
DELTA(R) and PEERLESS(R) single and double handle faucets are used on kitchen,
lavatory and other sinks and in bath and shower installations. DELTA faucets are
sold primarily through manufacturers' representatives to distributors who sell
the faucets to plumbers, building contractors, remodelers, retailers and others.
PEERLESS faucets are sold primarily through manufacturers' representatives
directly to retail outlets such as mass merchandisers, home centers and hardware
stores and are also sold under private label. The Company's ARTISTIC BRASS(R)
and SHERLE WAGNER(TM) faucets and accessories are produced for the decorator
markets and are sold through wholesalers, distributor showrooms and other
outlets. In addition to its domestic manufacturing, the Company manufactures
faucets in Denmark, Italy and Canada.
 
     Sales of faucets approximated $698 million in 1995, $667 million in 1994
and $608 million in 1993. The percentage of operating profit on faucets is
somewhat higher than that on other products offered by the Company. The Company
believes that the simplicity, quality and reliability of its faucet mechanisms,
its marketing and merchandising activities, and the development of a broad line
of products have accounted for the continued strength of its faucet sales.
 
     The Company manufactures stock, semi-custom and custom kitchen and bath
cabinetry in a variety of styles and in various price ranges. The Company sells
cabinets under a number of trademarks, including MERILLAT(R), KRAFTMAID(R),
STARMARK(R) and FIELDSTONE(R), with sales in both the home improvement and new
construction markets. In addition to its domestic manufacturing, the Company
manufactures cabinetry in Germany and England. Sales of kitchen and bath
cabinets were approximately $758 million in 1995, $665 million in 1994 and $570
million in 1993.
 
     The Company's brass and copper plumbing system components and other
plumbing specialties are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware wholesalers and
to home centers, hardware stores, building supply outlets and other mass
merchandisers. These products are marketed for the wholesale trade under the
BRASSCRAFT(R) trademark and for the "do-it-yourself" market under the PLUMB
SHOP(R), HOME PLUMBER(R) and MELARD(TM) trademarks and are also sold under
private label.
 
     Other kitchen and bath consumer products sold by the Company include
THERMADOR(R) cooktops, ovens, ranges and related cooking equipment and
refrigerators, which are marketed through appliance distributors and dealers.
The Company's acrylic and gelcoat bath and shower units and whirlpools are sold
under the AQUA GLASS(R) trademark primarily to wholesale plumbing distributors
for use in the home improvement and new home construction markets. Other bath
and shower enclosure units, shower trays and laundry tubs are sold to the home
improvement market through
 

 
hardware stores and home centers under American Shower & Bath and Trayco trade
names. Luxury bath and shower enclosures are manufactured and sold by the
Company under the HUPPE(R) trademark primarily in Germany and other foreign
markets. The Company manufactures bath and shower accessories, vanity mirrors
and bath storage products under ZENITH PRODUCTS(R) and other trademarks and
sells these products to home centers, hardware stores and mass merchandisers for
the "do-it-yourself" market. The Company's spas and hot tubs are sold under the
HOT SPRING SPA(R) and other trademarks directly to retailers for sale to
residential customers.
 
     Other specialty home improvement and building products include premium
quality brass rim and mortise locks, knobs and trim and other builders' hardware
which are manufactured and sold under the BALDWIN(R) trademark for the home
improvement and new home construction markets. WEISER(R) door locks and related
hardware are sold through contractor supply outlets, hardware distributors and
home centers. SAFLOK(TM) electronic locks and WINFIELD(TM) mechanical locks are
sold primarily to the hospitality market.
 
     In 1995, the Company expanded its home improvement and building products
with the acquisition of Gale Industries, Inc. Through local offices across the
United States, Gale installs fiberglass insulation and other building products
primarily for the residential home building industry.
 
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
     In late November 1995, the Company's Board of Directors and management
approved a formal plan to dispose of the Company's home furnishings products
segment. Accordingly, the Company's financial statements and related notes have
been reclassified to present such segment as discontinued operations and include
an after-tax non-cash charge of $650 million which reflects the anticipated loss
from the disposition of this segment. The Company's operations included in this
segment are principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of quality
furniture, fabrics and other home furnishings. The Company intends to sell the
businesses comprising the home furnishings products segment during 1996 and
expects to utilize certain of the proceeds from the sale to reduce the Company's
indebtedness. Proceeds may also be used to invest in acquisitions related to its
continuing operations and to repurchase shares of the Company's Common Stock.
See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Discontinued Operations" included in Item 7 of this Report and the
Note to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of
this Report captioned "Discontinued Operations." Unless otherwise noted,
reference to the Company excludes information relating to the discontinued
operations.
 
GENERAL INFORMATION
 
     No material portion of the Company's business is seasonal or has special
working capital requirements, although the Company maintains a higher investment
in inventories for certain of its businesses than the average manufacturing
company. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations -- Receivables and Inventories -- Continuing Operations,"
included in Item 7 of this Report. The Company does not consider backlog orders
to be material and no material portion of its business is dependent upon any one
customer or subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts at
the election of the federal government. Compliance with federal, state and local
regulations relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, is not expected to
result in material capital expenditures by the Company or to have a material
effect on the Company's earnings or competitive position. In general, raw
materials required by the Company are obtainable from various sources and in the
quantities desired.
 
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
 
     The Company, through its subsidiaries, has home improvement and building
products manufacturing plants in Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany,
Great Britain, Italy, Mexico, Spain, Taiwan
 

 
and Turkey. Home improvement and building products manufactured by the Company
outside of the United States include faucets and accessory products, bath and
shower enclosures, bath accessories, kitchen and bath cabinets, decorative
accessories, door locks and related hardware, floor registers, ventilating fans
and equipment and submersible water pumps.
 
     The Company's foreign operations are subject to political, monetary,
economic and other risks attendant generally to international businesses. These
risks generally vary from country to country.
 
     Financial information concerning the Company's export sales and foreign
operations, including the net sales, operating profit and assets which are
attributable to the Company's operations in the United States and in foreign
countries are set forth in Item 8 of this Report in the Note to the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements captioned "Geographic Information."
 
EQUITY INVESTMENTS
 
     MascoTech, Inc.
 
     In 1984, Masco transferred its industrial businesses to a newly formed
subsidiary, MascoTech, Inc. (formerly Masco Industries, Inc.), which became a
separate public company in July, 1984 when Masco distributed to its stockholders
shares of MascoTech common stock as a special dividend. Masco currently owns
approximately 45 percent of the outstanding common stock of MascoTech, a voting
interest of approximately 39 percent. MascoTech is a supplier of powertrain and
chassis components, technical engineering and related services and automotive
aftermarket products. In 1995, MascoTech had net sales of approximately $1.7
billion.
 
     MascoTech has adopted a strategic plan to focus on certain core operating
capabilities and divest certain other businesses. In late 1993, MascoTech
adopted a plan to divest the businesses in its energy segment, which has since
been completed. MascoTech's financial statements have been reclassified to
present the operating results of the energy segment as discontinued operations.
These businesses manufactured specialized tools, equipment and other products
for energy-related industries. Except as the context otherwise indicates, all
information contained herein has been reclassified for these discontinued
operations. In late 1994, MascoTech adopted a plan to dispose of its
architectural products, defense and certain of its transportation-related
businesses. The disposition of these businesses, which had sales of
approximately $637 million in 1994, is expected to be completed by mid-1996,
with the cash portion of the proceeds applied to reduce MascoTech's indebtedness
and to provide capital to invest in its core businesses. The disposition of
these businesses does not meet the criteria for discontinued operations
treatment for accounting purposes; accordingly, the sales and results of
operations of these businesses will be included in the results of continuing
operations through the date of disposition. See "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included in Item 7
of this Report regarding the effect of these actions on the Company.
 
     MascoTech's transportation-related businesses manufacture powertrain,
chassis and aftermarket products and provide technical engineering and other
related services. Powertrain and chassis products include semi-finished
transmission shafts, drive gears, engine connecting rods, wheel spindles, front
wheel drive and exhaust system components, control arms and heavy stampings and
related assemblies for suspension and chassis applications. MascoTech's
technical engineering and related services businesses supply engineering and
engineering services to support the vehicle development processes of automotive
original equipment manufacturers as well as specialty vehicle, marketing,
training, visual and other related professional services. Aftermarket products
include fuel and emission systems components, windshield wiper blades,
constant-velocity joints, brake hardware repair kits and other automotive
accessories. MascoTech's products are manufactured using various metalworking
technologies, including cold, warm and hot forming, powdered metal forming and
stamping. During 1995, sales to various divisions and subsidiaries of Ford Motor
Company, Chrysler Corporation and General Motors Corporation accounted for
approximately 24 percent, 11 percent and 11 percent, respectively, of
MascoTech's net sales (including businesses held for disposition).
 

 
     Including transactions finalized in early 1996, the disposition of
MascoTech's architectural and other specialty products businesses is
substantially complete. Architectural products businesses held for disposition
and not yet sold manufacture steel doors, garage doors and wood and
aluminum-clad wood windows. These products are sold principally to wholesalers
for the commercial, institutional and residential markets. MascoTech's sales of
architectural products in 1995 were $242 million. MascoTech's other specialty
products businesses held for disposition and not yet sold consist primarily of
property management services for the United States government, waste-water
treatment services for industrial companies principally in southern California
and the manufacture of small rocket launcher casings for foreign governments.
MascoTech's sales in 1995 of these other specialty products were $96 million.
 
     TriMas Corporation
 
     The Company and MascoTech currently own approximately 5 percent and 41
percent, respectively, of the outstanding common stock of TriMas Corporation.
TriMas is a diversified proprietary products company with leadership positions
in commercial, industrial and consumer niche markets, including specialty
container products, pressurized gas cylinders, specialty industrial gaskets,
towing systems products, specialty fasteners, pressure-sensitive tapes and
products for fiberglass insulation, and precision cutting tools.
 
     Hans Grohe
 
     The Company has a partnership interest in Hans Grohe GmbH & Co. KG, a
German manufacturer of faucets, handheld showers, shower heads and other shower
accessories.
 
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
 
     The Company holds a number of United States and foreign patents covering
various design features and valve constructions used in certain of its faucets,
and also holds a number of other patents and patent applications, licenses,
trademarks and trade names. As a manufacturer of brand-name consumer products,
the Company views its trademarks as important, but does not believe that there
is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights that would have a material
adverse effect on the Company's present business as a whole.
 
COMPETITION
 
     The major domestic and foreign markets for the Company's products are
highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on performance, quality,
style, service and price, with the relative importance of such factors varying
among products. A number of companies of varying size compete with one or more
of the Company's product lines.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     At December 31, 1995, approximately 20,500 people were employed in the
Company's continuing operations. Satisfactory relations have generally prevailed
between the Company and its employees.
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
 
     The following list includes the Company's principal manufacturing
facilities by location and the industry segments utilizing such facilities:
 

 

 

 
        Note: Multiple footnotes to the same municipality denote separate
        facilities in that location. Industry segments in the preceding table
        are identified as follows: (1) home improvement and building products
        segment and (2) discontinued operations segment.
 
     The two principal faucet manufacturing plants are located in Greensburg,
Indiana and Chickasha, Oklahoma and a new 394,000 square foot faucet
manufacturing plant opened in 1995 in Jackson, Tennessee. The faucet
manufacturing plants and the majority of the Company's other facilities range
from approximately 20,000 to 700,000 square feet. The Company owns most of its
manufacturing facilities and none of the properties is subject to significant
encumbrances. In addition to its manufacturing facilities, the Company operates
approximately 70 facilities (the majority of which are leased) which install
fiberglass insulation and other building products. The Company's corporate
headquarters are located in Taylor, Michigan and are owned by the Company. An
additional building near its corporate headquarters is used by the Company's
corporate research and development department.
 
     The Company's buildings, machinery and equipment have been generally well
maintained, are in good operating condition, and are adequate for current
production requirements.
 
     The following list identifies the location of the principal manufacturing
and technical service facilities of MascoTech and the industry segments
utilizing such facilities:
 

 

 

 
        Note: Multiple footnotes within the same parenthesis indicate the
        facility is engaged in significant activities relating to more than one
        segment. Multiple footnotes to the same municipality denote separate
        facilities in that location. Industry segments in the preceding table
        are identified as follows: (1) Transportation-Related Product and
        Services; (2) Specialty Products -- Architectural; and (3) Specialty
        Products -- Other.
 
     MascoTech's principal manufacturing facilities range in size from
approximately 10,000 square feet to 360,000 square feet, substantially all of
which are owned by MascoTech and are not subject to significant encumbrances.
MascoTech's principal technical service facilities in the United States range in
size from approximately 10,000 square feet to 120,000 square feet, substantially
all of which are leased to MascoTech. MascoTech's executive offices are located
in Taylor, Michigan, and are provided by the Company to MascoTech under a
corporate services agreement.
 
     MascoTech's buildings, machinery and equipment have been generally well
maintained, are in good operating condition, and are adequate for current
requirements.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     The Company is subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of
business, but does not believe that any such claim or litigation will have a
material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
SUPPLEMENTARY ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT (PURSUANT TO INSTRUCTION 3
TO ITEM 401(B) OF REGULATION S-K).
 

 
     Executive officers who are elected by the Board of Directors serve for a
term of one year or less. Each elected executive officer has been employed in a
managerial capacity with the Company for over five years except for Messrs.
Foley and Gargaro. Mr. Foley was employed by MascoTech, Inc. as its Vice
President -- Human Resources from 1994 to 1996 and was President of Executive
Business Partners, Inc., a training and consulting firm, from 1993 to 1994. From
1991 to 1992, he was Vice President -- Administration and General Counsel at
Domino's Pizza, Inc., engaged in producing, distributing and retail sales of
food products through franchised and company-owned stores. Mr. Gargaro joined
the Company as its Vice President and Secretary in October, 1993. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Gargaro was a partner at the Detroit law firm of Dykema
Gossett PLLC. Mr. Gargaro has served as a director and Secretary of MascoTech,
Inc., since 1984, and a director and Secretary of TriMas Corporation since 1989.
Richard A. Manoogian, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company, is the son of its Chairman Emeritus, Alex Manoogian.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     The New York Stock Exchange is the principal market on which the Company's
Common Stock is traded. The following table indicates the high and low sales
prices of the Company's Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Tape and the cash dividends declared per share for the periods
indicated:
 

 
     On March 1, 1996, there were approximately 6,340 holders of record of the
Company's Common Stock.
 
     The Company expects that its practice of paying quarterly dividends on its
Common Stock will continue, although future dividends will continue to depend
upon the Company's earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other
factors.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The following table sets forth summary consolidated financial information
for the Company's continuing operations, for the years and dates indicated:
 

 
  (1) The year 1994 includes a $79 million after-tax ($.50 per share) non-cash
      equity investment charge.
 

 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT
 
     Acquisitions have historically contributed significantly to Masco's
long-term growth, even though generally the initial impact on earnings is
minimal after deducting acquisition-related costs such as interest and added
depreciation and amortization. The important earnings benefit to Masco arises
from subsequent growth of acquired companies, since incremental sales are not
handicapped by these expenses.
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     In late November 1995, the Company's Board of Directors approved a formal
plan to dispose of the Company's home furnishings products segment. Accordingly,
the applicable financial statements and related notes have been reclassified to
present the home furnishings products segment as discontinued operations;
therefore, net sales of this segment have been excluded from consolidated net
sales presented herein. The 1995 fourth quarter includes a non-cash after-tax
charge of $650 million to reflect the anticipated loss from the disposition of
this segment. Company operations included in this segment are principally
engaged in the manufacture and sale of quality furniture, fabrics and other home
furnishings.
 
     Net sales and operating profit attributable to the home furnishings
products segment for the eleven months ended November 30, 1995 and for the years
ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 were $1,852 million and $85.9 million, $1,885
million and $78.9 million and $1,643 million and $57.6 million, respectively.
 
     The Company intends to dispose of the businesses comprising the home
furnishings products segment in 1996. Should the Company retain a common equity
interest in these businesses after disposition, such interest would be less than
20 percent.
 
     Cash proceeds received from the disposition of these businesses will be
used to reduce Company indebtedness, and may be invested in acquisitions or used
to repurchase Company common shares.
 
PROFIT MARGINS -- CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
     Net income from continuing operations as a percentage of sales was 6.8
percent, 6.7 percent and 9.6 percent in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     After-tax profit return on shareholders' equity as measured by income from
continuing operations was 9.4 percent, 8.6 percent and 11.4 percent in 1995,
1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     For 1994, income from continuing operations as a percentage of sales and
after-tax profit return on shareholders' equity, as measured by income from
continuing operations, reflect an unusual after-tax charge of $79 million or
approximately $.50 per share for the Company's equity share of its affiliate
MascoTech, Inc.'s $315 million non-cash after-tax charge for the divestiture of
its non-core businesses. Prior to giving effect to such charge, income from
continuing operations as a percentage of sales and after-tax profit return on
shareholders' equity for 1994 were 9.7 percent and 12.5 percent, respectively.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES -- CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
     Over the years, the Company has largely funded its growth through cash
provided by a combination of operations and long-term bank and other borrowings.
 
     At year-end 1995, current assets were approximately 2.2 times current
liabilities.
 
     During 1995, cash of $262 million was provided by operating activities of
continuing operations, by $74 million from the sale of the Company's Formica
Corporation investment and by $35 million from discontinued operations; cash
decreased by $165 million for the purchase of property and equipment, by $116
million for cash dividends, by $52 million for a net decrease in debt and by $14
million for
 

 
other cash outflows. The aggregate of the preceding items represents a net cash
inflow of $24 million in 1995. Cash provided by operating activities of
continuing operations totalled $262 million, $289 million and $269 million in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively; the Company has generally reinvested a
majority of these funds in its operations.
 
     The Company's anticipated internal cash flow is expected to provide
sufficient liquidity to fund its near-term working capital and other investment
needs. The Company believes that its longer-term working capital and other
general corporate requirements will be satisfied through its internal cash flow
and, to the extent necessary, in the financial markets.
 
RECEIVABLES AND INVENTORIES -- CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
     During 1995, the Company's receivables increased by $28 million, primarily
as a result of increased fourth quarter sales in 1995 compared with the same
period in 1994.
 
     During 1995, the Company's inventories increased by $22 million. As
compared with the average manufacturing company, the Company maintains a higher
investment in inventories, which relates to the Company's business strategies of
providing better customer service, establishing efficient production scheduling
and benefitting from larger, more cost-effective purchasing.
 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND DEPRECIATION -- CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
     Capital expenditures totalled $165 million in 1995, compared with $122
million in 1994. These amounts primarily pertain to expenditures for additional
facilities related to increased demand for existing products as well as for new
Masco products. The Company also continues to invest in automating its
manufacturing operations and increasing its productivity, in order to be a more
efficient producer and improve customer service and response time.
 
     Depreciation expense and amortization expense were $65.3 million and $24.8
million, respectively, in 1995, compared with $54.5 million and $19.3 million,
respectively, in 1994. At each balance sheet date, management assesses whether
there has been an impairment in the carrying value of excess of cost over net
assets of acquired companies, primarily by comparing current and projected
sales, operating income and annual cash flows with the related annual
amortization expense.
 
EQUITY AND OTHER INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES
 
     Equity earnings from affiliates were $26.2 million in 1995 compared with an
equity loss of $99.5 million in 1994 and equity earnings of $18.7 million in
1993.
 
     In December 1994, MascoTech, Inc., an equity affiliate of the Company,
announced and recorded a non-cash after-tax charge of $315 million in
anticipation of losses associated with the planned disposition of its non-core
businesses. As a result, the Company in 1994 recorded a $138 million pre-tax
charge ($79 million after-tax) as its equity share of this non-cash charge.
 
CASH DIVIDENDS
 
     During 1995, the Company increased its dividend rate six percent to $.19
per share quarterly. This marks the 37th consecutive year in which dividends
have been increased. Dividend payments over this period have increased at an 18
percent average annual rate. Although the Company is aware of the greater
interest in yield by many investors and has maintained an increased dividend
payout in recent years, the Company continues to believe that its shareholders'
long-term interests are best served by investing a significant portion of its
earnings in the future growth of the Company.
 
RECENTLY ISSUED FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 121, "Accounting
for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed
Of," will not have a material impact on
 

 
the Company's financial statements when adopted in 1996. SFAS No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," becomes effective in 1996. The
Company intends to adopt the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123 and
will continue to account for stock-based compensation in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees."
 
GENERAL FINANCIAL ANALYSIS -- CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
     1995 VERSUS 1994
 
     Net sales in 1995, aided by acquisitions in late 1994, increased 13 percent
to $2,927 million; excluding acquisitions, net sales increased 7 percent.
 
     Cost of sales as a percentage of sales increased to 63.1 percent in 1995
from 60.9 percent in 1994, primarily as a result of plant start-up costs related
to a major new faucet facility in the U.S. and product sales mix. Product sales
mix was primarily influenced by a higher percentage of lower margin sales to
total sales.
 
     Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales
increased to 23.2 percent in 1995 from 22.4 percent in 1994, primarily as a
result of increased promotional, advertising and insurance costs. Operating
profit, before general corporate expense, decreased 4 percent in 1995 to $493
million.
 
     Included in other income and expense for 1995 are equity earnings from
MascoTech of $18 million as compared with $106 million of equity loss from
MascoTech in 1994; such equity loss reflects the Company's equity share of
MascoTech's unusual non-cash 1994 fourth quarter charge for the disposition of
its non-core businesses.
 
     After-tax income from continuing operations and income from continuing
operations per share for 1995 were $200 million and $1.25, respectively, as
compared with income from continuing operations and income from continuing
operations per share for 1994 (prior to the Company's share of the above-
mentioned 1994 MascoTech charge) of $252 million and $1.59, respectively.
Including the above-mentioned charge of approximately $.50 per share, income
from continuing operations for 1994 was $173 million, with earnings per share of
$1.09.
 
     1994 VERSUS 1993
 
     Net sales in 1994, aided by acquisitions, increased 15 percent to $2,583
million; excluding acquisitions, net sales increased 8 percent. Cost of sales as
a percentage of sales decreased modestly to 60.9 percent in 1994 from 61.4
percent in 1993. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of
sales decreased to 22.4 percent in 1994 from 23.2 percent in 1993. Operating
profit, before general corporate expense, increased 22 percent to $511 million,
primarily due to increased sales and profit improvement programs.
 
     Included in other income and expense for 1994 are equity losses from
MascoTech of $106 million, which reflect the Company's equity share of
MascoTech's unusual non-cash fourth quarter charge for the disposition of its
non-core businesses, as compared with $13.2 million of equity earnings from
MascoTech in 1993. Equity earnings from MascoTech in 1993 are net of an
approximate $10 million after-tax fourth quarter charge which reflects the
Company's equity share of MascoTech's loss provision for the disposition of its
energy-related businesses and extraordinary loss on the early extinguishment of
debt. In 1994, MascoTech reported a loss from continuing operations and a net
loss, after preferred stock dividends, of $234.4 million and $233.1 million,
respectively, as compared with income from continuing operations and net income,
after preferred stock dividends, of $70.9 million and $32.7 million,
respectively, in 1993.
 
     Included in other income and expense for 1993 is a $28.3 million pre-tax
gain (approximately $18 million after-tax) on the redemption of MascoTech's 10%
exchangeable preferred stock. This gain was principally offset by the Company's
approximate $10 million after-tax equity share of MascoTech's
 

 
above-mentioned 1993 fourth quarter special charges, as well as by charges
related to certain restructurings of Company operations.
 
     After-tax income from continuing operations and income from continuing
operations per share for 1994, prior to the above-mentioned MascoTech charge for
the disposition of its non-core businesses, were $252 million and $1.59,
representing increases of 17 percent and 13 percent from $215 million and $1.41
in 1993, respectively. Including the above-mentioned charge of approximately
$.50 per share, income from continuing operations was $173 million, with
earnings per share of $1.09.
 

 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors
  and Shareholders of Masco Corporation:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Masco
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related
consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1995, and the financial statement schedule as
listed in Item 14(a)(2)(i) of this Form 10-K. These financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Masco
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1995 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information required to be included therein.
 
COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
Detroit, Michigan
March 1, 1996
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
                                     ASSETS
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Principles of Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Masco Corporation and all majority-owned subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated. The Company
classified its home furnishings products segment as discontinued operations in
1995 (See "Discontinued Operations" note). Accordingly, the December 31, 1994
balance sheet and statements of operations and cash flows for 1994 and 1993 and
related notes have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation.
 
     Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements. The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from such estimates and assumptions.
 
     Average Shares Outstanding. The average number of common shares outstanding
in 1995, 1994 and 1993 approximated 159.6 million, 158.8 million and 152.7
million, respectively.
 
     Cash and Cash Investments. The Company considers all highly liquid
investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash and
cash investments.
 
     Receivables. Accounts and notes receivable are presented net of allowances
for doubtful accounts of $16.3 million at December 31, 1995 and $12.0 million at
December 31, 1994.
 
     Property and Equipment. Property and equipment, including significant
betterments to existing facilities, are recorded at cost. Upon retirement or
disposal, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts
and any gain or loss is included in income. Maintenance and repair costs are
charged to expense as incurred.
 
     Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation is computed principally using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Annual
depreciation rates are as follows: buildings and land improvements, 2 to 10
percent, and machinery and equipment, 5 to 33 percent. Depreciation was $65.3
million, $54.5 million and $50.5 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     The excess of cost over net assets of acquired companies is being amortized
using the straight-line method over periods not exceeding 40 years; at December
31, 1995 and 1994 such accumulated amortization totalled $58.1 million and $48.1
million, respectively. At each balance sheet date, management assesses whether
there has been an impairment in the carrying value of excess of cost over net
assets of acquired companies, primarily by comparing current and projected
sales, operating income and annual cash flows with the related annual
amortization expense. Purchase costs of patents are being amortized using the
straight-line method over the legal lives of the patents, not to exceed 17
years. Amortization of intangible assets was $24.8 million, $19.3 million and
$20.9 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     Fair Value of Financial Instruments. The carrying value of financial
instruments reported in the balance sheet for current assets and current
liabilities approximates fair value. The fair value of financial instruments
that are carried as long-term investments (other than those accounted for by the
equity method) was based principally on quoted market prices for those or
similar investments or by discounting future cash flows using a discount rate
that approximates the risk of the investments. The fair value of the Company's
long-term debt instruments was based principally on quoted market prices for the
same or similar issues or the current rates available to the Company for debt
with similar terms and remaining maturities. The aggregate market value of the
Company's long-term investments and long-term debt at December 31, 1995 was
approximately $157 million and $1,603 million, as compared with the Company's
carrying value of $116 million and $1,577 million, respectively. The aggregate
market value of the Company's long-term investments and long-term debt at
December 31, 1994 was
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONCLUDED)

approximately $158 million and $1,477 million, as compared with the Company's
carrying value of $123 million and $1,587 million, respectively.
 
     Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards. Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," will not have a
material impact on the Company's financial statements when adopted in 1996. SFAS
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," becomes effective in 1996.
The Company intends to adopt the pro forma disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123
and will continue to account for stock-based compensation in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees."
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     In late November 1995, the Company's Board of Directors approved a formal
plan to dispose of the Company's home furnishings products segment. Accordingly,
the applicable financial statements and related notes, except as otherwise
noted, have been reclassified to present the home furnishings products segment
as discontinued operations. Company operations included in this segment are
principally engaged in the manufacture and sale of quality furniture, fabrics
and other home furnishings. The Company recorded a fourth quarter 1995 pre-tax
and after-tax non-cash charge of $650 million for the anticipated loss on
disposition of this segment. The potential income tax benefit of approximately
$230 million from the loss on disposition was not recorded due to the likelihood
that such loss will be capital in nature and that the Company is unable to
quantify the portion of such capital loss benefit which may ultimately be
realizable. The approximate components of the charge were as follows, in
thousands:
 

 
     This charge reflects the Company's best estimate of the amount anticipated
to be realized on the disposition of its home furnishings products businesses.
The estimated amount that the Company anticipates to realize on disposition is
based on negotiations with potential acquirors and independent parties familiar
with valuations of this nature. The amount that the Company will ultimately
realize could differ materially from the amount assumed in arriving at the loss
on disposition of the home furnishings products segment. The Company intends to
dispose of the businesses comprising the home furnishings products segment in
1996. Should the Company retain a common equity interest in these businesses
after disposition, such interest would be less than 20 percent.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Selected financial information for these discontinued operations is as
follows at December 31, 1995 and 1994 and for the period up to the decision to
discontinue in late November 1995 and for the years ended December 31, 1994 and
1993:
 

 
     The Company guarantees certain credit facilities of the home furnishings
products businesses. Amounts available under these facilities aggregate
approximately $130 million, of which approximately $25 million was outstanding
as of December 31, 1995.
 

 
     Other expense, net above includes allocable interest expense of $44.0
million, $43.2 million and $41.0 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
Interest expense of the Company not directly attributable to specific operations
of the Company was allocated to discontinued operations based upon the assumed
reduction of Company debt from application of certain anticipated cash proceeds
from the disposal. The income tax rate of discontinued operations was higher in
1995 primarily due to higher taxes on foreign operations and decreased foreign
tax credits.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS -- (CONCLUDED)
 
     Cash flows from (for) discontinued operations as shown in the consolidated
statement of cash flows are comprised of the following:
 

 
INVENTORIES
 

 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with
cost determined principally by use of the first-in, first-out method.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
EQUITY INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES
 
     Equity investments in affiliates consist primarily of the following common
equity and partnership interests:
 

 
     MascoTech, Inc. presently has voting preferred shares outstanding, which
are to be converted into common shares no later then mid-1997. On an assumed
converted basis and utilizing the minimum number of common shares to be so
issued, the Company's equity investment in MascoTech would be 39 percent at
December 31, 1995 (which equals the Company's voting interest at that date).
 
     Excluding the partnership interest in Hans Grohe, for which there is no
quoted market value, the aggregate market value of the Company's equity
investments at December 31, 1995 (which may differ from the amounts that could
then have been realized upon disposition), based upon quoted market prices at
that date, was $376 million, as compared with the Company's related aggregate
carrying value of $223 million.
 
     The Company's carrying value of its equity investments in MascoTech exceeds
its equity in the underlying net book value by approximately $74 million at
December 31, 1995. This excess, which principally resulted from repurchases by
MascoTech of its common stock, is being amortized over a period not to exceed 40
years. The Company's carrying value of its other equity investments at December
31, 1995 approximates the Company's equity in the underlying net book value in
these affiliates.
 
     In March 1993, the Company and MascoTech partially restructured their
affiliate relationships through transactions that reduced the Company's common
equity interest in MascoTech from 47 percent to approximately 35 percent and
resulted in MascoTech's acquisition of the Company's investments in Emco
Limited, a Canadian company. The Company received $87.5 million in cash, $100
million of 10% exchangeable preferred stock and seven-year warrants to purchase
10 million common shares of MascoTech at $13 per share. MascoTech received 10
million of its common shares, all $77.5 million of its 12% exchangeable
preferred stock, the Company's investments in Emco Limited and a modified option
expiring in March 1997 to require the Company to purchase up to $200 million
aggregate amount of debt securities in MascoTech.
 
     In November 1993, MascoTech redeemed for cash its $100 million of 10%
exchangeable preferred stock issued in March 1993. As a result of this
redemption, the Company realized a $28.3 million pre-tax gain.
 
     In December 1993, following MascoTech's call for redemption, the Company
converted $130 million of MascoTech's 6% debentures due 2011 into MascoTech
common stock, thereby increasing the Company's common equity interest in
MascoTech from approximately 35 percent to 42 percent.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
EQUITY INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES -- (CONCLUDED)

     Approximate combined condensed financial data of the above-listed
affiliates are summarized in U.S. dollars as follows, in thousands:
 

 
     In December 1994, MascoTech announced and recorded a non-cash after-tax
charge of $315 million in anticipation of losses associated with the planned
disposition of its non-core businesses. As a result, the Company recorded its
equity share of this non-cash charge.
 
     Equity in undistributed earnings of affiliates of $30 million at December
31, 1995, $17 million at December 31, 1994 and $85 million at December 31, 1993
are included in consolidated retained earnings.
 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 

 
LONG-TERM DEBT
 

 
     At December 31, 1995, all of the outstanding notes other than notes payable
to banks are nonredeemable.
 
     In June 1995, the Company retired the 6.25% notes due June 15, 1995 through
borrowings under its bank revolving-credit agreement.
 
     The Company intends to either refinance the 9% notes due April 15, 1996
through borrowings under its bank revolving-credit agreement or retire these
notes with proceeds anticipated from the divestiture of the home furnishings
products segment.
 
     The 5.25% subordinated debentures due February 15, 2012 are convertible
into common stock at $42.28 per share.
 
     The notes payable to banks relate to a $750 million revolving-credit
agreement, with any outstanding balance due and payable in May 1998. Interest is
payable on borrowings under this agreement based upon various floating rates as
selected by the Company (approximately 6.1 percent at December 31, 1995).
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
LONG-TERM DEBT -- (CONCLUDED)

     Certain debt agreements contain limitations on additional borrowings and
restrictions on cash dividend payments and common share repurchases. At December
31, 1995, the amount of retained earnings available for cash dividends and
common share repurchases approximated $187 million under the most restrictive of
these provisions.
 
     At December 31, 1995, the maturities of long-term debt during each of the
next five years, assuming that the bank debt is refinanced, were approximately
as follows: 1996 -- $267.7 million; 1997 -- $9.0 million; 1998 -- $19.8 million;
1999 -- $218.4 million; and 2000 -- $14.9 million.
 
     The Company has on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, an
unallocated shelf registration pursuant to which the Company is able to issue up
to a combined $759 million of debt and equity securities.
 
     Interest paid was approximately $115 million, $103 million and $104 million
in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Amounts paid include interest allocated to
discontinued operations.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 

 
     On the basis of amounts paid (declared), cash dividends per share were $.73
($.74) in 1995, $.69 ($.70) in 1994 and $.65 ($.66) in 1993.
 
     In December 1995, the Company's Board of Directors announced the approval
of a Shareholder Rights Plan. The Rights are designed to enhance the Board's
ability to protect shareholders against, among other things, unsolicited
attempts to acquire control of the Company that do not offer an adequate price
to all shareholders or are otherwise not in the best interests of the Company's
shareholders. The Rights were issued to shareholders of record on December 18,
1995 and will expire on December 6, 2005.
 
     In 1994, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up
to 10 million shares of its common stock in open-market transactions or
otherwise. Pursuant to this authorization, approximately 2.8 million common
shares were repurchased in 1994 at an aggregate cost of approximately $62
million.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
STOCK OPTIONS AND AWARDS
 
     For the three years ended December 31, 1995, stock option data pertaining
to stock option plans for key employees of the Company and affiliated companies
are as follows:
 

 
     Pursuant to restricted stock incentive award plans, the Company granted
long-term incentive awards, net, for 1,250,000, 598,000 and 100,000 shares of
Company Common Stock during 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, to key employees
of the Company and affiliated companies. Long-term incentive awards granted in
1995 include special awards to key employees for performance achievements in the
prior year. The unamortized costs of unvested awards under these plans,
aggregating approximately $77.6 million at December 31, 1995, are being
amortized over the ten-year vesting periods.
 
     At December 31, 1995, a combined total of 10,563,000 shares of Company
Common Stock was available for the granting of stock options and incentive
awards under the above plans.
 
     Pursuant to the 1984 Restricted Stock (MascoTech) Incentive Plan, the
Company may award to key employees of the Company and affiliated companies,
shares of common stock of MascoTech, Inc. held by the Company. No such awards
were granted in 1995, 1994 or 1993. At December 31, 1995, there were 4,695,000
of such shares available for granting future awards under this plan.
 
     The data in this note include discontinued operations.
 
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS
 
     The Company sponsors defined-benefit pension plans and defined-contribution
plans for most of its employees. In addition, substantially all salaried
employees participate in noncontributory profit-sharing plans, to which payments
are determined annually by the Directors. Aggregate charges to income under the
Company's pension and profit-sharing plans were $31.1 million in 1995, $23.3
million in 1994 and $19.2 million in 1993. Data in this note include
discontinued operations.
 
     Net periodic pension cost for the Company's pension plans includes the
following components:
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS -- (CONCLUDED)
 
     Major assumptions used in accounting for the Company's pension plans are as
follows:
 

 
     The funded status of the Company's pension plans is summarized as follows,
in thousands, at December 31:
 

 
     The funded status of the Company's pension plans at December 31, 1995 and
1994 includes assets and accumulated benefits of pension plans of discontinued
operations. These plans had assets and accumulated benefits of $135 million and
$150 million, respectively, as of December 31, 1995, and assets and accumulated
benefits of $124 million and $120 million, respectively, as of December 31,
1994. Net periodic pension cost for these plans was $5.1 million in 1995 and
$1.6 million in both 1994 and 1993.
 
     The Company sponsors certain postretirement benefit plans that provide
medical, dental and life insurance coverage for eligible retirees and dependents
in the United States based on age and length of service. At December 31, 1995,
the aggregate present value of the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
approximated $6.7 million pre-tax and is being amortized over the remaining 18
years.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
 
     The Company is engaged principally in the manufacture, installation and
sale of home improvement and building products including:
 
        Faucets; plumbing fittings; kitchen and bath cabinets; shower tubs,
           whirlpools and spas; bath accessories; kitchen appliances; builders'
           hardware; venting and ventilating equipment; insulation; and water
           pumps.
 
     These products are sold for the home improvement and home construction
markets through mass merchandisers, hardware stores, home centers, distributors,
wholesalers and other outlets to consumers and contractors.
 
     Corporate assets consisted primarily of real property and other
investments.
 
     Pursuant to a corporate services agreement to provide MascoTech, Inc. with
certain corporate staff and administrative services, the Company charges a fee
approximating .8 percent of MascoTech net sales. This fee approximated $9
million in 1995 and $11 million in both 1994 and 1993 and is included as a
reduction of general corporate expense.
 
     The following table presents information about the Company by geographic
area:
 

 
(1) Included in net sales in 1995, 1994 and 1993 are export sales from the U.S.
    of $40.9 million, $45.5 million and $36.1 million, respectively.
 
(2) Income from continuing operations before income taxes and net income
    pertaining to continuing foreign operations for 1995, 1994 and 1993 were $96
    million and $52 million, $94 million and $56 million, and $79 million and
    $43 million, respectively.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET
 

 
     Interest expense is presented net of interest expense allocated to
discontinued operations of $44.0 million, $43.2 million and $41.0 million in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     Equity earnings from MascoTech for 1994 were $32 million, prior to the
Company's pre-tax equity share of MascoTech's non-cash 1994 fourth quarter
charge.
 
     Other items in 1995 include a $15.9 million gain from the sale of the
Company's investment in Formica Corporation; this gain was offset primarily by
charges for product line disposals.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
INCOME TAXES
 

 
     Net deferred tax asset at December 31, 1995 and 1994 consists of net
short-term deferred tax assets of $44.3 million and $28.2 million, respectively,
and net long-term deferred tax liabilities of $44.0 million and $9.7 million,
respectively.
 
     A potential deferred tax asset of approximately $230 million from the
anticipated loss on disposition of the Company's home furnishings products
segment was not recorded due to the likelihood that such loss will be capital in
nature and that the Company is unable to quantify the portion of such capital
loss benefit which may ultimately be realizable.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
INCOME TAXES -- (CONCLUDED)
     The following is a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to the
effective tax rate allocated to income from continuing operations before income
tax:
 

 
     Income taxes paid were approximately $170 million, $175 million and $135
million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Amounts paid include taxes on
discontinued operations.
 
     Earnings of foreign subsidiaries generally become taxable upon the
remittance of dividends and under certain other circumstances. Provision has not
been made for U.S. or additional foreign taxes on approximately $81 million of
remaining undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, as those earnings are
intended to be permanently reinvested; it is not practical to estimate the
amount of deferred tax liability on such earnings.
 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 
     The following presents the combined financial statements of the Company,
MascoTech, Inc. and TriMas Corporation as one entity, with Masco Corporation as
the parent company. The December 31, 1994 balance sheet and statements of
operations and cash flows for 1994 and 1993 have been reclassified to present
the Company's home furnishings products segment as discontinued operations.
Intercompany transactions have been eliminated. Amounts, except earnings per
share, are in thousands.
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) -- (CONTINUED)
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED) -- (CONCLUDED)
 

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONCLUDED)
 
INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
 

 
     Fourth quarter 1995 net loss and loss per share reflect the Company's $650
million non-cash pre-tax and after-tax charge for the disposition of its home
furnishings products segment.
 
     Quarterly net sales and gross profit amounts for 1995 and 1994 exclude net
sales and gross profit of the Company's home furnishings products segment, which
the Company classified as discontinued operations during the fourth quarter of
1995. Net sales and gross profit of the Company's home furnishings products
segment for the 1995 quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December
31 were $505 million and $128.4 million, $494 million and $121.2 million, $497
million and $115.5 million and $518 million and $123.8 million, respectively.
Net sales and gross profit of the Company's home furnishings products segment
for the 1994 quarters ended March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 were
$429 million and $106.3 million, $473 million and $118.4 million, $479 million
and $117.8 million and $504 million and $114.8 million, respectively.
 
     Fourth quarter 1994 loss from continuing operations and net loss and their
respective per share amounts reflect the Company's equity share of MascoTech's
non-cash fourth quarter charge associated with the planned disposition of its
non-core businesses.
 

 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.
 
     Information regarding executive officers required by this Item is set forth
as a Supplementary Item at the end of Part I hereof (pursuant to Instruction 3
to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K). Other information required by this Item will
be contained in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1996 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed on or before April 29, 1996, and such
information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     Information required by this Item will be contained in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its 1996 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed on or before April 29, 1996, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
     Information required by this Item will be contained in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its 1996 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed on or before April 29, 1996, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     Information required by this Item will be contained in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its 1996 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be
filed on or before April 29, 1996, and such information is incorporated herein
by reference.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
    (A) LISTING OF DOCUMENTS.
 
        (1) Financial Statements.  The Company's Consolidated Financial
            Statements included in Item 8 hereof, as required at December 31,
            1995 and 1994, and for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and
            1993, consist of the following:
 
                    Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
                    Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
                    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
                    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
        (2) Financial Statement Schedules.
 
           (i)  Financial Statement Schedule of the Company appended hereto, as
                required for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993,
                consists of the following:
 
                II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 
           (ii) (A) MascoTech, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial
                    Statements appended hereto, as required at December 31, 1995
                    and 1994, and for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 
                    and 1993, consist of the following:
 
                    Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
                    Consolidated Statement of Operations
 
                    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
                    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
           (ii) (B) MascoTech, Inc. and Subsidiaries Financial Statement
                    Schedule appended hereto, as required for the years ended
                    December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, consists of the following:
 
                    II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 
        (3) Exhibits.
 
            3.i     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Masco Corporation
                    and amendments thereto.
 
            3.ii    Bylaws of Masco Corporation, as amended.(4)
 
            4.a.i   Indenture dated as of December 1, 1982 between Masco
                    Corporation and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 
                    as Trustee(8), and Directors' resolutions establishing Masco
                    Corporation's: (i) 9% Notes Due April 15, 1996(6), (ii) 9%
                    Notes Due October 1, 2001(8), (iii) 6 1/4% Notes Due June 
                    15, 1995(6), (iv) 6 5/8% Notes Due September 15, 1999(6), 
                    6 1/8% Notes Due September 15, 2003(5), and (vi) 7 1/8% 
                    Debentures Due August 15, 2013.(5)
 
            4.a.ii  Agreement of Appointment and Acceptance of Successor
                    Trustee dated as of July 25, 1994 among Masco Corporation,
                    Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and The First
                    National Bank of Chicago.(3)
 
            4.a.iii Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 26, 1994 between
                    Masco Corporation and The First National Bank of Chicago.(3)
 
            4.b     Indenture dated as of December 1, 1982 between Masco
                    Corporation and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee, and Directors'
                    resolutions establishing Masco Corporation's 5 1/4%
                    Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due 2012, including form
                    of Debenture.(8)
 



 
            4.c    $750,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as
                   of May 18, 1994 among Masco Corporation, the banks signatory
                   thereto and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
                   agent(3), Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of June 1,
                   1995(1), Amendment No. 2 thereto dated as of November 30,
                   1995 and Amendment No. 3 thereto dated as of January 31,
                   1996.
 
            4.d    Indenture dated as of November 1, 1986 between Masco
                   Industries, Inc. (now known as MascoTech, Inc.) and Morgan
                   Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Trustee, and
                   Directors' resolutions establishing Masco Industries, Inc.'s
                   4 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due 2003(4),
                   Agreement of Appointment and Acceptance of Successor Trustee
                   dated as of August 4, 1994 among MascoTech, Inc., Morgan
                   Guaranty Trust Company of New York and The First National
                   Bank of Chicago and Supplemental Indenture dated as of August
                   5, 1994 among MascoTech, Inc. and The First National Bank of
                   Chicago.(2)
 
            4.e    Credit Agreement dated as of September 2, 1993 by and among
                   MascoTech, Inc., the banks party thereto, and NBD Bank, N.A.
                   (now known as NBD Bank), as Agent, and Comerica Bank, The
                   Bank of New York, The First National Bank of Chicago, Morgan
                   Guaranty Trust Company of New York and NationsBank of North
                   Carolina, N.A., as Co-Agents(4), First Amendment thereto
                   dated June 29, 1994(2), Second Amendment thereto dated
                   December 21, 1994 and Third Amendment thereto dated as of
                   September 28, 1995.
 
            4.f    Rights Agreement dated as of December 6, 1995 between Masco
                   Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Rights Agent.
 
           NOTE:   Other instruments, notes or extracts from agreements
                   defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of Masco
                   Corporation or its subsidiaries have not been filed since (i)
                   in each case the total amount of long-term debt permitted
                   thereunder does not exceed 10 percent of Masco Corporation's
                   consolidated assets, and (ii) such instruments, notes and
                   extracts will be furnished by Masco Corporation to the
                   Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
 
           10.a    Assumption and Indemnification Agreement dated as of May 1,
                   1984 between Masco Corporation and Masco Industries, Inc.
                   (now known as MascoTech, Inc.).
 
           10.b    Corporate Services Agreement dated as of January 1, 1987
                   between Masco Corporation and Masco Industries, Inc. (now
                   known as MascoTech, Inc.).(6)
 
           10.c    Corporate Opportunities Agreement dated as of May 1, 1984
                   between Masco Corporation and Masco Industries, Inc. (now
                   known as MascoTech, Inc.).
 
           10.d    Stock Repurchase Agreement dated as of May 1, 1984 between
                   Masco Corporation and Masco Industries, Inc. (now known as
                   MascoTech, Inc.) and related forfeiture letter dated
                   September 20, 1985, Amendment to Stock Repurchase Agreement
                   dated as of December 20, 1990(8) and Agreement dated as of
                   November 23, 1993 including an amendment to Stock Repurchase
                   Agreement.(4)
 
           NOTE:   Exhibits 10.e through 10.p constitute the management
                   contracts and executive compensatory plans or arrangements in
                   which certain of the Directors and executive officers of the
                   Company participate.
 
           10.e    Masco Corporation 1991 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan
                   (Restated December 6, 1995).
 
           10.f    Masco Corporation 1988 Restricted Stock Incentive Plan
                   (Restated December 6, 1995).
 

 
           10.g    Masco Corporation 1988 Stock Option Plan (Restated December
                   6, 1995).
 
           10.h    Masco Corporation 1984 Restricted Stock (Industries)
                   Incentive Plan (Restated December 6, 1995).
 
           10.i    Masco Corporation 1984 Stock Option Plan (Restated December
                   6, 1995).
 
           10.j    Masco Corporation Restricted Stock Incentive Plan (Restated
                   December 6, 1995).
 
           10.k    MascoTech, Inc. 1991 Long-Term Stock Incentive Plan
                   (Restated December 6, 1995).
 
           10.l    MascoTech, Inc. 1984 Restricted Stock Incentive Plan
                   (Restated December 6, 1995).
 
           10.m    MascoTech, Inc. 1984 Stock Option Plan (Restated December 6,
                   1995).
 
           10.n    Masco Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement and
                   Disability Plan.(2)
 
           10.o    Masco Corporation Benefits Restoration Plan.(2)
 
           10.p    Form of Agreement dated June 29, 1989 between Masco
                   Corporation and certain of its officers.(4)
 
           10.q    Amended and Restated Securities Purchase Agreement dated as
                   of November 23, 1993 between Masco Corporation and MascoTech,
                   Inc., including form of Note.(4)
 
           10.r    Registration Agreement dated as of March 31, 1993 between
                   Masco Corporation and Masco Industries, Inc. (now known as
                   MascoTech, Inc.).(4)
 
           10.s    Stock Purchase Agreement between Masco Corporation and Masco
                   Industries, Inc. (now known as MascoTech, Inc.) dated as of
                   December 23, 1991 (regarding Masco Capital Corporation).(8)
 
           11      Computation of Primary and Fully Diluted Per Share Earnings.
 
           12      Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
 
           21      List of Subsidiaries.
 
           23.a    Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. relating to Masco
                   Corporation's Financial Statements and Financial Statement
                   Schedule.
 
           23.b    Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. relating to MascoTech,
                   Inc.'s Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule.
 
           27      Financial Data Schedule.
- ---------------
     (1) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
        30, 1995.
 
     (2) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1994.
 
     (3) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
        30, 1994.
 
     (4) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1993.
 
     (5) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        September 30, 1993.
 
     (6) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1992.
 
     (7) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
        31, 1991.
 
     (8) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1991.
 

 
         THE COMPANY WILL FURNISH ITS STOCKHOLDERS A COPY OF ANY OF THE ABOVE
     EXHIBITS NOT INCLUDED HEREIN UPON THE WRITTEN REQUEST OF SUCH STOCKHOLDER
     AND THE PAYMENT TO THE COMPANY OF THE REASONABLE EXPENSES INCURRED BY THE
     COMPANY IN FURNISHING SUCH COPY OR COPIES.
 
     (B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
         The following Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed by Masco
     Corporation during the quarters ended December 31, 1995 and March 31, 1996:
 
        1. Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 22, 1995 reporting under
           Item 5. "Other Events" the Company's agreement to sell its home
           furnishings group.
 
        2. Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 21, 1995 reporting under
           Item 5. "Other Events" the Company's declaration of a dividend of one
           preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of common
           stock of the Company, payable to holders of record as of the close of
           business on December 18, 1995.
 
        3. Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 1996 reporting under
           Item 5. "Other Events" the termination of Morgan Stanley Capital
           Partners' participation in the purchase of the Company's home
           furnishings group.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          MASCO CORPORATION
 
                                          By       /s/ RICHARD G. MOSTELLER
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                    RICHARD G. MOSTELLER
                                              Senior Vice President -- Finance
 
March 28, 1996
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 

 
                                                                  

                                                                           

 

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                         FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
                     PURSUANT TO ITEM 14(A)(2) OF FORM 10-K
 
            ANNUAL REPORT TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
     Schedules, as required, for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and
1993:
 

 
                                       F-1

 
                               MASCO CORPORATION
 
                 SCHEDULE II. VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
 

 
NOTES:
 
  (A) Allowance of companies acquired and companies disposed of, net.
 
  (B) Deductions, representing uncollectible accounts written off, less
      recoveries of accounts written off in prior years.
 
                                       F-2

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors
  and Shareholders of MascoTech, Inc.:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of MascoTech,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related
consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1995, and the financial statement schedule as
listed in Item 14(a)(2)(ii) of this Form 10-K. These financial statements and
the financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of MascoTech, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the consolidated results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1995 in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
required to be included therein.
 
COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
Detroit, Michigan
February 23, 1996
 
                                       F-3

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
                                     
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-4

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
 

 

 
* Anti-dilutive
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-5

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
 

 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       F-6

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
ACCOUNTING POLICIES:
 
     Principles of Consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and all majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant
intercompany transactions have been eliminated. Corporations that are 20 to 50
percent owned are accounted for by the equity method of accounting; ownership
less than 20 percent is accounted for on the cost basis unless the Company
exercises significant influence over the investee. Capital transactions by
equity affiliates, which reduce the Company's ownership interest at amounts
differing from the Company's carrying amount, are reflected in other income or
expense and the investment in affiliates account.
 
     Certain amounts for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 have been
reclassified to conform to the presentation adopted in 1995. The consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 1995 and 1994 reflects the segregation of net
current and net non-current assets related to the plan, adopted in late 1994, to
dispose of certain businesses.
 
     The Company has a corporate services agreement with Masco Corporation,
which at December 31, 1995 owned approximately 45 percent of the Company's
Common Stock. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company pays fees to Masco
Corporation for various corporate staff support and administrative services,
research and development and facilities. Such fees, which are determined
principally as a percentage of net sales, including net sales related to
businesses held for disposition, aggregated approximately $9 million in 1995,
and $11 million in each of 1994 and 1993.
 
     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires the Company to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements. Such estimates and assumptions also affect the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ
from such estimates and assumptions.
 
     Cash and Cash Investments. The Company considers all highly liquid debt
instruments with an initial maturity of three months or less to be cash and cash
investments. The carrying amount reported in the balance sheet for cash and cash
investments approximates fair value.
 
     Marketable Securities. The Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities", in 1994. At December 31, 1995 and 1994, marketable equity
securities have been categorized as trading securities, and, as a result, are
stated at fair value.
 
     Receivables. Receivables are presented net of allowances for doubtful
accounts of approximately $1.9 million and $1.6 million at December 31, 1995 and
1994, respectively.
 
     Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable
value, with cost determined principally by use of the first-in, first-out
method. Inventories include technical services work in process, at the lower of
cost or net realizable value, totalling approximately $12 million at both
December 31, 1995 and 1994.
 
     Property and Equipment, Net. Property and equipment additions, including
significant betterments, are recorded at cost. Upon retirement or disposal of
property and equipment, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from
the accounts, and any gain or loss is included in income. Repair and maintenance
costs are charged to expense as incurred.
 
     Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation is computed principally using
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Annual
depreciation rates are as follows: buildings and land improvements, 2 1/2 to 10
percent, and machinery and equipment, 6 2/3 to 33 1/3 percent. Deferred
financing costs are amortized over the lives of the related debt securities. The
excess of cost over net assets of acquired companies is amortized using the
straight-line method over the period estimated to
 
                                       F-7

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
be benefitted, not exceeding 40 years. At each balance sheet date, management
assesses whether there has been a permanent impairment of the excess of cost
over net assets of acquired companies by comparing anticipated undiscounted
future cash flows from operating activities with the carrying amount of the
excess of cost over net assets of acquired companies. The factors considered by
management in performing this assessment include current operating results,
business prospects, market trends, potential product obsolescence, competitive
activities and other economic factors. Based on this assessment, there was no
permanent impairment related to the excess of cost over net assets of acquired
companies not held for disposition at December 31, 1995.
 
     At December 31, 1995 and 1994, accumulated amortization of the excess of
cost over net assets of acquired companies and patents was $42.3 million and
$34.5 million, respectively. Amortization expense was $13.7 million, $22.9
million and $22.2 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, including
amortization expense of approximately $1.6 million in 1993 related to
discontinued operations.
 
     Income Taxes. The Company records income taxes in accordance with Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 ("SFAS 109"), "Accounting for Income
Taxes." SFAS 109 is an asset and liability approach that requires the
recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax
consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company's financial
statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, SFAS 109
generally allows consideration of all expected future events other than
enactments of changes in the tax law or tax rates. A provision has not been made
for U.S. or additional foreign taxes on approximately $38 million of
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as those earnings are intended to
be permanently reinvested. Generally, such earnings become taxable upon the
remittance of dividends and under certain other circumstances. It is not
practicable to estimate the amount of deferred tax liability on such
undistributed earnings.
 
     Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share. Primary earnings per common share are
based on the weighted average shares of common stock and common stock
equivalents outstanding (including the dilutive effect of options and warrants,
utilizing the treasury stock method) of 57.1 million and 57.4 million in 1995
and 1993, respectively. Primary loss per common share in 1994 is based on 58.9
million weighted average shares of common stock outstanding. The effect of stock
options and warrants on earnings per common share in 1994 would be
anti-dilutive. Primary earnings (loss) per common share are calculated on
earnings (loss) after deducting preferred stock dividends of $13.0 million,
$13.0 million, and $14.9 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     Fully diluted earnings per common share are only presented when the assumed
conversion of convertible securities is dilutive. Fully diluted earnings per
common share in 1993 was calculated based on 68.8 million weighted average
common shares outstanding. Convertible securities did not have a dilutive effect
on earnings (loss) per common share in 1995 or 1994.
 
     In late 1993, approximately 10.4 million common shares were issued as a
result of the conversion of the 6% Convertible Subordinated Debentures (see
"Shareholders' Equity" note). If such conversion had taken place at the
beginning of 1993, the primary earnings per common and common equivalent share
amounts would have approximated the amounts presented for earnings per common
and common equivalent share, assuming full dilution, in 1993.
 
     Adoption of Statements of Financial Accounting Standards. The Company
expects that Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 ("SFAS 123"),
"Accounting for Stock Based Compensation", will not have a material impact on
the financial position or the results of operations of the Company when adopted
in 1996. The Company expects to continue to account for employee stock based
compensation under APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees" and present the proforma disclosures required by SFAS 123. The
Company has estimated that the impact of
 
                                       F-8

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
adopting SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and
for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," will result in an after-tax gain
(since the Company believes the fair value of the businesses being held for sale
at January 1, 1996 exceeds the carrying value) in the range of $10 to $15
million recorded as a cumulative accounting change effective January 1, 1996.
 
SUPPLEMENTARY CASH FLOWS INFORMATION:
 
     Significant transactions not affecting cash were: in 1995, in addition to
cash received, approximately $34 million comprised of both notes receivable due
from, and a 29 percent equity ownership interest in, the acquiring company, as
consideration for a non-core business unit; in 1993, in addition to the payment
by the Company of $87.5 million, the non-cash portion of the issuance of Company
Preferred Stock and warrants in exchange for Company Common Stock, Company
Preferred Stock and Masco Corporation's holdings of Emco Limited common stock
and convertible debentures (see "Shareholders' Equity" note); conversion of $187
million of convertible debentures into Company Common Stock (see "Shareholders'
Equity" note); and conversion of the Company's TriMas Corporation ("TriMas")
convertible preferred stock holdings into TriMas common stock.
 
     Income taxes paid were $11 million, $28 million and $32 million in 1995,
1994 and 1993, respectively. Interest paid was $55 million, $61 million and $82
million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
DISPOSITIONS OF OPERATIONS:
 
     In late 1994, the Company adopted a plan to dispose, by sale or
liquidation, a number of businesses, including its Architectural Products,
Defense and certain of its Transportation-Related Products and Services
businesses, as part of its long-term strategic plan to increase the focus on its
core operating capabilities. The disposition of these businesses does not meet
the criteria for discontinued operations treatment for accounting purposes;
accordingly, the sales and results of operations of these businesses will be
included in continuing operations until disposition. Through dates of sale, the
businesses held for disposition had sales of approximately $468 million, $637
million and $727 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, and operating
profit (loss) before gains (charge) on disposition of businesses, net of $(11)
million, $(7) million and $24 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
These amounts for 1994 and 1993 have been restated principally to reflect the
Company's subsequent decisions in 1995 and 1996 to retain two manufacturing
plants and one business originally included in the businesses held for
disposition, respectively.
 
     The Company's carrying value of a number of the businesses to be disposed
exceeded the estimated proceeds expected from such dispositions. To reflect the
estimated loss on the disposition of these businesses, the Company in 1994
recorded a non-cash charge aggregating $400 million pre-tax (approximately $315
million after-tax or $5.35 per common share) for those businesses for which a
loss was anticipated. The approximate components of the charge were as follows
at December 31, 1994 (in thousands):
 

 
     The expected proceeds from the sale or liquidation of the businesses to be
disposed is estimated by the Company's management at each balance sheet date
based on a variety of factors, including:
 
                                       F-9

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
historical and projected operating performance, competitive market position,
perceived strategic value to potential acquirors, tangible asset values, and
other relevant factors. In addition, management's estimates of the expected
proceeds included input from independent parties familiar with business
valuations of this nature.
 
     During 1995, the Company divested a number of such businesses, in separate
transactions, for aggregate pre-tax proceeds of approximately $160 million,
which resulted in net gains of approximately $25 million. These net gains were
substantially offset by reductions in the estimated net proceeds the Company
expects to receive from certain remaining businesses to be sold, aggregating
approximately $12 million, and by certain exit costs incurred in 1995
aggregating approximately $8 million.
 
     Including transactions finalized in early 1996 which generated additional
proceeds of approximately $120 million, the Company has received aggregate
proceeds (including related tax benefits) from the dispositions of businesses of
approximately $300 million. The cash portion of these proceeds has been applied
to reduce the Company's indebtedness and for investment in its core businesses.
The businesses that remain for sale at February 1, 1996 had net sales and
operating losses before gains (charge) on disposition of businesses, net of
approximately $181 million and $28 million, respectively, in 1995. The Company
expects to dispose of these remaining businesses by mid-1996 for estimated
proceeds (including related tax benefits) of approximately $100 million. Future
periods will include the operating results of the remaining businesses to be
sold and any additional costs to be incurred in connection with these
dispositions which cannot be accrued at December 31, 1995, as well as the result
of differences, if any, between estimated and actual proceeds.
 
     During 1995 and 1994, the Company accrued $8 and $17 million of exit costs,
respectively, related to the businesses sold or held for sale. During 1995, $7
million has been charged against this accrual (principally employee termination,
business valuation and non-cancellable lease expenses and costs). At December
31, 1995, the liability for accrued exit costs approximates $18 million.
 
     In late 1993, the Company adopted a plan to divest the business units in
its energy segment. This plan met the criteria for discontinued operations
accounting treatment; accordingly, the consolidated statements of operations and
cash flows and related notes present the Company's energy segment as
discontinued operations. During 1993, two such business units were sold for
approximately $93 million, including the sale of one business unit to the
Company's equity affiliate, TriMas, for $60 million cash. The expected loss from
the disposition of the Company's energy segment resulted in a fourth quarter
1993 pre-tax charge of approximately $41 million (approximately $22 million
after-tax), including a provision for the businesses not sold in 1993 and the
deferral of a portion of the gain (approximately $6 million after-tax) related
to the sale of the business to TriMas. Certain of the remaining business units
were sold at prices greater than those used in estimating the loss on
disposition in 1993, resulting in a reversal in 1994 of approximately $18
million pre-tax ($11.7 million after-tax) relating to the charge established in
1993.
 
                                      F-10

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Amounts included in the consolidated balance sheet for net assets of
businesses held for disposition consist of the following at December 31, 1995
and 1994, after reflecting the anticipated loss on disposition recorded in 1994
and the $12 million reduction in estimated proceeds in 1995:
 

 
INVENTORIES:
 

 
EQUITY AND OTHER INVESTMENTS IN AFFILIATES:
 
     Equity and other investments in affiliates consist primarily of the
following common stock interests in publicly traded affiliates:
 

 
     TriMas is a diversified manufacturer of commercial, industrial and consumer
products. Emco Limited ("Emco") is a Canadian-based manufacturer and distributor
of building and other industrial products. Titan Wheel International, Inc.
("Titan") is a manufacturer of wheels, tires and other products for
agricultural, construction and off-highway equipment markets.
 
                                      F-11

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The carrying amount of investments in affiliates at December 31, 1995 and
1994 and quoted market values at December 31, 1995 for publicly traded
affiliates (which may differ from the amounts that could have been realized upon
disposition) are as follows:
 

 
     During 1994, the Company sold a portion of its common stock holdings in
TriMas, decreasing the Company's common equity ownership interest in TriMas to
41 percent, and resulting in a pre-tax gain of $17.9 million.
 
     In May, 1993, Titan completed an initial public offering of common stock,
including shares held by the Company, reducing the Company's common equity
ownership interest in Titan to 24 percent from 47 percent. The Company's
ownership interest was further reduced in late 1993 to 21 percent as a result of
the issuance of additional common shares by Titan in connection with an
acquisition by Titan. These transactions resulted in 1993 gains aggregating
approximately $12.8 million pre-tax as a result of the sale of shares held by
the Company ($3.3 million) and from the change in the Company's common equity
ownership interest in Titan ($9.5 million).
 
     In June, 1995, Titan sold newly issued common stock in a public offering
and issued common stock as a result of the conversion of convertible securities.
The Company recognized pre-tax income of approximately $5.1 million
(approximately $.05 per common share after-tax) as a result of the change in the
Company's common equity ownership interest in Titan.
 
     In addition to its equity and other investments in publicly traded
affiliates, the Company has equity and other investment interests in privately
held manufacturers of automotive components, including the Company's common
equity ownership interest in Delco Remy International, Inc., a manufacturer of
automotive electric motors and other components (acquired in 1994), and Saturn
Electronics & Engineering, Inc., a manufacturer of electromechanical and
electronic automotive components (acquired in 1995).
 
     Equity in undistributed earnings of affiliates of $38 million at December
31, 1995, $24 million at December 31, 1994 and $10 million at December 31, 1993
are included in consolidated retained earnings (deficit).
 
                                      F-12

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Approximate combined condensed financial data of the Company's equity
affiliates are as follows:
 

 

 
     Equity and interest income from affiliates consists of the following:
 

 
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET:
 

 
     Depreciation expense totalled $38 million, $44 million and $48 million in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Depreciation expense in 1993 includes
approximately $8 million related to the discontinued energy segment.
 
                                      F-13

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
ACCRUED LIABILITIES:
 

 
LONG-TERM DEBT:
 

 
     The Company has a $675 million revolving credit agreement with a group of
banks, due July, 1998. The interest rates applicable to the revolving credit
agreement are principally at alternative floating rates provided for in the
agreement (approximately six percent at December 31, 1995).
 
     The revolving credit agreement requires the maintenance of a specified
level of shareholders' equity, with limitations on the ratio of senior debt to
earnings, long-term debt, intangible assets and the acquisition of Company
Capital Stock. Under the most restrictive of these provisions, approximately $16
million was available at December 31, 1995 for the payment of cash dividends and
the acquisition of Company Capital Stock. In January, 1996, the Company received
approximately $120 million in cash proceeds from the sale of non-core
businesses. These proceeds were principally utilized to reduce the Company's
indebtedness related to its revolving credit agreement.
 
     On March 15, 1995, the Company redeemed at maturity $233 million of its 10%
Senior Subordinated Notes utilizing its bank revolving credit agreement. In
January, 1994, the Company issued, in a public offering, $345 million of 4 1/2%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures due December 15, 2003. These debentures are
convertible into Company Common Stock at $31 per share. The net proceeds of
approximately $337 million were used to redeem $250 million of 10 1/4% Senior
Subordinated Notes on February 1, 1994 and to reduce other indebtedness. During
1994, the Company recognized extraordinary income of $4.4 million pre-tax ($2.6
million after-tax) related to the early extinguishment of a portion of the
4 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Debentures.
 
     The maturities of debt during the next five years are as follows (in
millions): 1996 -- $5; 1997 -- $3; 1998 -- $377; 1999 -- $3; and 2000 -- $2.
 
                                      F-14

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:
 

 
     On March 31, 1993, the Company acquired from Masco Corporation 10 million
shares of Company Common Stock, recorded at $100 million, $77.5 million of the
Company's previously outstanding 12% Exchangeable Preferred Stock, and Masco
Corporation's holdings of Emco Limited common stock and convertible debentures,
recorded at $80.8 million. In exchange, Masco Corporation received $100 million
(liquidation value) of the Company's 10% Exchangeable Preferred Stock,
seven-year warrants to purchase 10 million shares of Company Common Stock at $13
per share, recorded at $70.8 million, and $87.5 million in cash. The
transferable warrants are not exercisable by Masco Corporation if an exercise
would increase Masco Corporation's common equity ownership interest in the
Company above 35 percent. The cash portion of this transaction is included in
the accompanying statement of cash flows as cash used for investing activities
of $87.5 million. As part of this transaction, as modified in late 1993, Masco
Corporation agreed to purchase from the Company, at the Company's option through
March, 1997, up to $200 million of subordinated debentures. In late 1993, the
Company redeemed the 10% Exchangeable Preferred Stock for its $100 million
liquidation value.
 
                                      F-15

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     In July, 1993, the Company issued 10.8 million shares of 6% Dividend
Enhanced Convertible Stock (DECS, classified as Convertible Preferred Stock) at
$20 per share ($216 million aggregate liquidation amount) in a public offering.
The net proceeds from this issuance were used to reduce the Company's
indebtedness. On July 1, 1997, each of the then outstanding shares of the DECS
will convert into one share of Company Common Stock, if not previously redeemed
by the Company or converted at the option of the holder, in both cases for
Company Common Stock.
 
     Each share of the DECS is convertible at the option of the holder anytime
prior to July 1, 1997 into .806 of a share of Company Common Stock, equivalent
to a conversion price of $24.81 per share of Company Common Stock. Dividends are
cumulative and each share of the DECS has 4/5 of a vote, voting together as one
class with holders of Company Common Stock.
 
     Beginning July 1, 1996, the Company, at its option, may redeem the DECS at
a call price payable in shares of Company Common Stock principally determined by
a formula based on the then current market price of Company Common Stock.
Redemption by the Company, as a practical matter, will generally not result in a
call price that exceeds one share of Company Common Stock or is less than .806
of a share of Company Common Stock (resulting from the holder's conversion
option).
 
     The Company's 6% Convertible Subordinated Debentures were called for
redemption in late 1993. Substantially all holders, including Masco Corporation,
exercised their right to convert these debentures into Company Common Stock (at
a conversion price of $18 per share), resulting in the issuance of approximately
10.4 million shares of Company Common Stock. Included in 1993 interest expense
was approximately $7 million related to the Company's 6% Convertible
Subordinated Debentures held by Masco Corporation.
 
     During 1995 and 1994, the Company repurchased and retired approximately one
million and four million shares, respectively, of its common stock in
open-market purchases, pursuant to a Board of Directors' authorized repurchase
program. At December 31, 1995, the Company may repurchase approximately five
million additional shares of Company Common Stock and Convertible Preferred
Stock pursuant to this repurchase authorization.
 
     The Company commenced paying cash dividends on its common stock in August,
1993. On the basis of amounts paid (declared), cash dividends per common share
were $.14 ($.11) in 1995, $.10 ($.11) in 1994 and $.04 ($.06) in 1993.
 
STOCK OPTIONS AND AWARDS:
 
     For the three years ended December 31, 1995, stock option data pertaining
to stock option plans for key employees of the Company and affiliated companies
are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-16

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     At December 31, 1995, options have been granted and are outstanding with
exercise prices ranging from $4 1/2 to $26 per share, the fair market value at
the dates of grant.
 
     Pursuant to restricted stock incentive plans, the Company granted long-term
incentive awards, net, for 461,000, 213,000 and 202,000 shares of Company Common
Stock during 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, to key employees of the Company
and affiliated companies. The unamortized costs of incentive awards, aggregating
approximately $17 million at December 31, 1995, are being amortized over the
ten-year vesting periods.
 
     At December 31, 1995 and 1994, a combined total of 5,646,000 and 5,773,000
shares, respectively, of Company Common Stock were available for the granting of
options and incentive awards under the above plans.
 
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:
 
     Pension and Profit-Sharing Benefits. The Company sponsors defined-benefit
pension plans for most of its employees. In addition, substantially all salaried
employees participate in noncontributory profit-sharing plans, to which payments
are approved annually by the Directors. Aggregate charges to income under these
plans were $13.0 million in 1995, $9.8 million in 1994 and $10.9 million in
1993, including approximately $.9 million in 1993 related to the discontinued
energy segment.
 
     Net periodic pension cost for the Company's defined-benefit pension plans
includes the following components for the three years ended December 31, 1995:
 

 
     Major assumptions used in accounting for the Company's defined-benefit
pension plans are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-17

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The funded status of the Company's defined-benefit pension plans at
December 31, 1995 and 1994 is as follows:
 

 
     Postretirement Benefits. The Company provides postretirement medical and
life insurance benefits for certain of its active and retired employees.
 
     Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106 ("SFAS 106"), "Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions", for its postretirement benefit
plans. This statement requires the accrual method of accounting for
postretirement health care and life insurance based on actuarially determined
costs to be recognized over the period from the date of hire to the full
eligibility date of employees who are expected to qualify for such benefits. In
conjunction with the adoption of SFAS 106, the Company elected to recognize the
transition obligation on a prospective basis and accordingly, the net transition
obligation is being amortized over 20 years. Net periodic postretirement benefit
cost includes the following components for the years ended December 31, 1995,
1994 and 1993:
 

 
                                      F-18

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Postretirement benefit obligations, none of which are funded, are
summarized as follows at December 31, 1995 and 1994:
 

 
     The discount rates used in determining the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation were 7.25 percent and 8.5 percent in 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The assumed health care cost trend rate in 1995 was 12 percent,
decreasing to an ultimate rate in the year 2000 of seven percent. If the assumed
medical cost trend rates were increased by one percent, the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation would increase by $2.1 million and the
aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic
postretirement benefit cost would increase by $.2 million. Included in the
Company's 1994 charge for the disposition of certain businesses are curtailment
costs for postretirement benefit obligations relating to these businesses of
approximately $3.7 million.
 
SEGMENT INFORMATION:
 
     The Company's business segments involve the sale of the following products
and services:
 
        Transportation-Related Products and Services:
 
           Precision products, generally produced using advanced metalworking
               technologies with significant proprietary content, and
               aftermarket products for the transportation industry.
 
           Engineering and technical business services.
 
        Specialty Products:
 
           Architectural -- Doors, windows, security grilles and office panels
               and partitions for commercial and residential markets.
 
           Other -- Products manufactured principally for the defense industry.
 
     Sales of the Company's foreign operations (principally in Western Europe)
approximate $166 million, $116 million and $97 million for 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. The Company's export sales approximate $85 million, $102 million
and $81 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
     Amounts related to the Company's energy segment have been presented as
discontinued operations.
 
     Corporate assets consist primarily of cash and cash investments, marketable
securities, equity and other investments in affiliates, notes receivable and net
assets of the discontinued energy segment.
 
                                      F-19

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 

 

 
(A) Included within this segment are sales to one customer of $397 million, $361
    million and $324 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively; sales to
    another customer of $182 million, $225 million and $186 million in 1995,
    1994 and 1993, respectively; and sales to a third customer of $178 million,
    $212 million and $222 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
 
(B) Operating profit in 1995 includes a $25 million net gains resulting from
    sales of non-core businesses in the third quarter. These net gains were
    substantially offset by reductions in the estimated proceeds the Company
    expects to receive from businesses to be sold, aggregating $12 million, and
    by certain exit costs incurred in 1995 aggregating approximately $8 million.
    The net gains (charge) impact the Company's industry segments as follows:
    Transportation-Related Products and Services -- $21 million and Other
    Specialty Products -- $(2) million. The remaining $(14) million of the net
    gains (charge) was allocated to General Corporate Expense. Operating loss in
    1994 includes the impact of a pre-tax charge in the amount of $400 million
    for the disposition of businesses. The charge impacts the Company's industry
    segments as follows: Transportation-Related Products and Services -- $196
    million; Architectural Products -- $116 million; and Other Specialty
    Products -- $75 million. The remaining $13 million of the charge was
    allocated to General Corporate Expense.
 
(C) Assets employed at December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994 include net
    assets related to the disposition of certain operations (see "Dispositions
    of Operations" note).
 
(D) Property additions in 1995 include approximately $14 million of capital
    expenditures for the Company's businesses held for disposition.
 
(E) Depreciation and amortization expense in 1995 include approximately $5
    million of expense for the Company's businesses held for disposition.
 
                                      F-20

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET:
 

 
     Gains and losses realized from sales of marketable securities and gains
from sales of common stock of equity affiliates are determined on a specific
identification basis at the time of sale.
 
INCOME TAXES:
 

 
                                      F-21

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The components of deferred taxes at December 31, 1995 and 1994 are as
follows:
 

 
     Net current and non-current assets of businesses held for disposition at
December 31, 1995 and 1994 include approximately $41 million and $60 million,
respectively, of the above deferred tax assets.
 
     The following is a reconciliation of tax computed at the U.S. federal
statutory rate to the provision for income taxes (credit) allocated to income
(loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (credit) and extraordinary
item:
 

 
                                      F-22

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:
 
     In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 107,
"Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments," the following methods
were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instruments:
 
MARKETABLE SECURITIES, NOTES RECEIVABLE AND OTHER ASSETS
 
     Fair values of financial instruments included in marketable securities,
notes receivable and other assets were estimated using various methods including
quoted market prices and discounted future cash flows based on the incremental
borrowing rates for similar types of investments. In addition, for variable-rate
notes receivable that fluctuate with the prime rate, the carrying amounts
approximate fair value.
 
LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     The carrying amount of bank debt and certain other long-term debt
instruments approximate fair value as the floating rates inherent in this debt
reflect changes in overall market interest rates. The fair values of the
Company's subordinated debt instruments are based on quoted market prices. The
fair values of certain other debt instruments are estimated by discounting
future cash flows based on the Company's incremental borrowing rate for similar
types of debt instruments.
 
     The carrying amounts and fair values of the Company's financial instruments
at December 31, 1995 and 1994 are as follows:
 

 
                                      F-23

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
INTERIM AND OTHER SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED):
 

 
     Results for the third quarter of 1995 include net gains aggregating
approximately $25 million from the sale of certain businesses held for
disposition. These net gains were offset by reductions in the estimated net
proceeds the Company expects to receive from businesses to be sold, aggregating
$12 million and by certain exit costs incurred in 1995 aggregating approximately
$8 million.
 
     Results for the second quarter of 1995 include pre-tax income of
approximately $5 million as a result of gains associated with the sale of common
stock through a public offering by an equity affiliate.
 
     Certain amounts for the quarters ended June 30, 1995 and March 31, 1995
have been reclassified to conform to the presentation adopted at December 31,
1995.
 
     Results for the fourth quarter of 1994 include a non-cash pre-tax charge of
$400 million ($315 million after-tax or $5.56 per common share in the fourth
quarter of 1994) reflecting the anticipated loss on the disposition of certain
businesses (see "Dispositions of Operations" note).
 
     Results for the fourth quarter of 1994 also include income aggregating
approximately $18 million pre-tax ($11.7 million after-tax or $.21 per common
share) relating to the partial reversal of the charge
 
                                      F-24

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
established in the fourth quarter of 1993 for the disposition of the Company's
energy segment (see "Dispositions of Operations" note).
 
     Results for the third quarter of 1994 include $4.4 million pre-tax of
extraordinary income ($2.6 million after-tax or $.04 per common share) related
to the early extinguishment of convertible debt.
 
     Results for the first, second and third quarters of 1994 include pre-tax
gains of approximately $9.8 million, $7.1 million and $1.0 million,
respectively, from the sale by the Company of a portion of its common stock
holdings of an equity affiliate.
 
     The 1994 income (loss) per common share amounts for the quarters do not
total to the full year amounts due to the purchase and retirement of shares
throughout the year and a lower dilutive effect from outstanding options and
warrants on the year-to-date calculation.
 
     The following supplemental unaudited financial data combine the Company
with TriMas and have been presented for analytical purposes. The Company had a
common equity ownership interest in TriMas of approximately 41 percent at
December 31, 1995 and December 31, 1994. The interests of the other common
shareholders are reflected below as "Equity of other shareholders of TriMas."
All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.
 

 

 
                                      F-25

 
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
                 PURSUANT TO ITEM 14(a)(2)(II)(B) OF FORM 10-K
 
            ANNUAL REPORT TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
Schedules, as required for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993:
 

 
                                      F-26

 
                                MASCOTECH, INC.
 
                SCHEDULE II.  VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994 AND 1993
 

 
NOTES:
 
(A) Allowance of companies acquired, and other adjustments, net in 1995.
    Allowance of companies reclassified for businesses held for disposition in
    1995 and 1994, and for discontinuance of Energy-related segment in 1993.
 
(B) Deductions, representing uncollectible accounts written off, less recoveries
    of accounts written off in prior years.
 
                                      F-27

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 


 

 
- ---------------
     (1) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
         Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
         30, 1995.
 
     (2) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco 
         Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 
         31, 1994.

 
    (3) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
        30, 1994.
 
    (4) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1993.
 
    (5) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
        September 30, 1993.
 
    (6) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1992.
 
    (7) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
        31, 1991.
 
    (8) Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits filed with Masco
        Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
        1991.

