
10-K405


SECTIONS

Business                                                                  2
Properties                                                               17
Legal Proceedings                                                        17
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                      18
Market for Stock                                                         19
Selected Financial Data                                                  20
Management's Discussion                                                  20
Financial Statements                                                     20
Disagreements                                                            20
Directors and Executive Officers                                         21
Executive Compensation                                                   22
Security Ownership                                                       22
Certain Relationships                                                    22
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules                                  22
Signatures                                                               27







                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[x]    Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
       Exchange Act of 1934

       For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998   Commission file number 1-35
                                 -----------------                          ----

                                       or

[ ]    Transition Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
       Exchange Act of 1934

                 For the transition period from ______to ______

                            GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY

               (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)

              New York                                   14-0689340
   (State or other jurisdiction of          (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   incorporation or organization)

3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT           06431-0001           203/373-2211
(Address of principal executive offices)      (Zip Code)         (Telephone No.)

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                            Name of each exchange on which
Title of each class                         registered
- -------------------                         ------------------------------

Common stock, par value $0.16 per share     New York Stock Exchange
                                            Boston Stock Exchange

            There were 3,275,235,004 shares of voting common stock with a par
value of $0.16 outstanding at February 28, 1999. These shares, which constitute
all of the outstanding common equity of the registrant, had an aggregate market
value on March 1, 1999, of $327.6 billion. Affiliates of the Company
beneficially own, in the aggregate, less than one-tenth of one percent of such
shares.

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  x  No
                                              ---    ---
            Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. x
                                   ---
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

            The definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant's Annual
Meeting of Share Owners, to be held April 21, 1999, is incorporated by reference
in Part III to the extent described therein.




                                     PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

            Unless otherwise indicated by the context, the terms "GE," "GECS"
and "GE Capital Services" are used on the basis of consolidation described in
note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 48 of the 1998 Annual
Report to Share Owners of General Electric Company. The financial section of
such Annual Report to Share Owners (pages 25 through 68 of that document) is set
forth in Part IV Item 14(a)(1) of this 10-K Report and is an integral part
hereof. References in Parts I and II of this 10-K Report are to the page numbers
of the 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners included in Part IV of this 10-K
Report. Also, unless otherwise indicated by the context, "General Electric"
means the parent company, General Electric Company.


            General Electric's address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY
12345-6999; the Company also maintains executive offices at 3135 Easton
Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06431-0001.


            GE is one of the largest and most diversified industrial
corporations in the world. GE has engaged in developing, manufacturing and
marketing a wide variety of products for the generation, transmission,
distribution, control and utilization of electricity since its incorporation in
1892. Over the years, GE has developed or acquired new technologies and services
that have broadened considerably the scope of its activities.


            GE's products include major appliances; lighting products;
industrial automation products; medical diagnostic imaging equipment; motors;
electrical distribution and control equipment; locomotives; power generation and
delivery products; nuclear power support services and fuel assemblies;
commercial and military aircraft jet engines; and engineered materials, such as
plastics, silicones and superabrasive industrial diamonds.


            GE's services include product services; electrical product supply
houses; electrical apparatus installation, engineering, repair and rebuilding
services; and computer-related information services. Through its affiliate, the
National Broadcasting Company, Inc., GE delivers network television services,
operates television stations, and provides cable, Internet and multimedia
programming and distribution services. Through another affiliate, General
Electric Capital Services, Inc., GE offers a broad array of financial and other
services including consumer financing, commercial and industrial financing, real
estate financing, asset management and leasing, mortgage services, consumer
savings and insurance services, specialty insurance and reinsurance, and
satellite communications.


            In virtually all of its global business activities, the Company
encounters aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive
climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing
research and development commitments, and by capital-intensive needs to meet
customer requirements. With respect to manufacturing operations, management
believes that, in general, GE has a leadership position (i.e., number one or
number two) in most major markets served. The NBC Television Network is one of
four major U.S. commercial broadcast television networks. It also competes with
two relatively new commercial broadcast networks, syndicated broadcast
television programming and cable and satellite television programming
activities. The businesses in which GE Capital Services engages are subject to
competition from various types of financial institutions, including commercial




banks, thrifts, investment banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing
companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance
companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance and reinsurance
companies.


            GE has substantial export sales from the United States. In addition,
the Company has expanded significantly its non-U.S. activities through majority,
minority or other joint venture interests in companies engaged primarily in
manufacturing and distributing products and providing nonfinancial services
similar to those sold within the United States. GECS financial services
operations outside the United States also have expanded considerably over the
past several years.


OPERATING SEGMENTS

            The Company's operations are highly decentralized. The basic
organization of the Company's operations consists of 10 key businesses, which
contain management units of differing sizes. At year-end 1998, GE adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131, DISCLOSURES ABOUT
SEGMENTS OF AN ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION, which requires segment data
to be measured and analyzed on a basis that is consistent with how business
activities are reported internally to management. The most significant change
from previous 10-K Reports is that restructuring and other special charges are
not included in the measure of segment profit. Previously reported data have
been restated as required by SFAS No. 131.


            Revenue and segment profit information about the Company's operating
segments in accordance with SFAS No. 131 is presented on page 36 of the 1998
Annual Report to Share Owners. Additional financial data and commentary on
recent financial results for operating segments are provided on pages 35-40 of
that Report and in note 28 (pages 64 and 65) to the consolidated financial
statements.


            Operating businesses that are reported as segments under SFAS No.
131 include Aircraft Engines, Appliances, GECS, Power Systems, Plastics and NBC.
The remaining key businesses do not meet the definition of a reportable segment
and have been aggregated into two operating segments based on common
characteristics of their activities (Industrial Products and Systems, and
Technical Products and Services). The GE All Other segment consists primarily of
revenues derived from licensing use of GE technology to others. For the GECS
segment, revenues and net earnings are presented and analyzed on pages 37-40 by
the five major operating activities in which it conducts its business (consumer
services, equipment management, mid-market financing, specialized financing and
specialty insurance). There is appropriate elimination of the net earnings of
GECS and the immaterial effect of transactions between GE and GECS segments to
arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of each of the
Company's operating segments follows.


AIRCRAFT ENGINES

            Aircraft Engines (10.2%, 8.6% and 8.0% of consolidated revenues in
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively) produces, sells and services jet engines,
turboprop and turboshaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in
military and commercial aircraft. GE's military engines are used in a wide
variety of aircraft that includes fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and
surveillance aircraft. The CFM56, produced by CFMI, a company jointly owned by
GE and Snecma of France, and GE's CF6 engines power aircraft in all categories
of large commercial aircraft: short/medium, intermediate and long-range.
Applications for the CFM56 engine include: Boeing's 737-300/-400/-500 series,
the next generation 737-600X/-700/-800/-900 series, and the 737 business jet;




Airbus Industrie's A319, A320, A321 and A340 series; and military aircraft such
as the KC-135R, E/KE-3 and E-6. The CF6 family of engines powers intermediate
and long-range aircraft such as Boeing's 747, 767, DC-10 and MD-11 series, as
well as Airbus Industrie's A300, A310 and A330 series. The GE90 engine is used
to power Boeing's 777 series twin-engine aircraft. The business also produces
jet engines for executive aircraft and regional commuter aircraft and aircraft
engine derivatives used for marine propulsion, mechanical drives and industrial
power generation sources. These aircraft engine derivatives are also reported as
part of the Power Systems segment. Maintenance, overhaul and component repair
services are provided for many models of engines, including engines manufactured
by competitors. The business further expanded its product services operations
through acquisitions in each of the last three years: the overhaul operations of
Varig Airlines in 1998, Greenwich Air Services/UNC in 1997 and Celma, an engine
overhaul operation in Brazil, in 1996.


            The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines is intense. Both
U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and
product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development
expenditures, both customer-financed and internally funded, are also important
in this segment. Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other
things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon
the rate of advance in the state of the art, by the small number of potential
customers and by the limited number of applicable airframe applications. Sales
of product services (replacement parts and services) are an important part of
the business. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline
procurement cycles, although cycles for military and commercial engine
procurement are different. Procurements of military jet engines are affected by
changes in global political and economic factors.


            In line with industry practice, sales of commercial jet aircraft
engines often involve long-term financing commitments to customers. In making
such commitments, it is GE's general practice to require that it have or be able
to establish a secured position in the aircraft being financed. Under such
airline financing programs, GE had issued loans and guarantees (principally
guarantees) amounting to $1.5 billion at year-end 1998, and had entered into
commitments totaling $1.5 billion to provide financial assistance on future
aircraft engine sales. Estimated fair values of the aircraft securing these
receivables and associated guarantees exceeded the related account balances and
guaranteed amounts at December 31, 1998.


            For current information about Aircraft Engines orders and backlog,
see page 35 of the 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners.


APPLIANCES

            Appliances (5.6%, 6.4% and 7.1% of consolidated revenues in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively) manufactures and/or markets a single class of
product - major appliances - that includes refrigerators, electric and gas
ranges, microwave ovens, freezers, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers,
water-softening and filtering products, and room air conditioning equipment.
These are sold under GE, Hotpoint, Monogram, Profile and Profile Performance
brands as well as under private brands for retailers and others. GE microwave
ovens, room air conditioners, water softening and filtering products, and
freezers are sourced from suppliers while investment in Company-owned U.S.
facilities is focused on refrigerators, dishwashers, ranges (primarily electric,
but some gas) and home laundry equipment. A large portion of appliance sales is
for replacement of installed units. Such sales are through a variety of retail
outlets. The other principal channel consists of residential building
contractors who install appliances in new dwellings. GE has an extensive U.S.
product services network that provides repair services, expanded service plans,
warranty administration and risk management services. In 1998, a European
appliance distribution affiliate was deconsolidated.




            Appliances continues to increase its operating presence in the
global business arena and participates in numerous manufacturing and
distribution joint ventures around the world. In 1998, the business acquired an
indirect interest in four Latin American appliance companies, further expanding
its activities in Latin America.


            Demand for appliances is influenced by economic trends such as
increases or decreases in consumer disposable income, availability of credit and
housing construction. Competition is very active in all products and comes from
a number of principal manufacturers and suppliers. An important factor is cost;
considerable competitive emphasis is placed on minimizing manufacturing and
distribution costs and on reducing cycle time from order to product delivery.
Other significant factors include brand recognition, quality, features offered,
innovation, customer responsiveness and appliance service capability. A number
of processes, such as Quick Response, New Product Introduction and Quick Market
Intelligence, have been implemented to improve GE's competitiveness in these
areas. For example, the Six Sigma quality initiative continues to enable the
business to improve the quality of products, reduce waste and provide better
product services. In 1998, the business launched the TrueTemp (TM) gas range,
introduced Monogram bottom mount refrigerators and new Zoneline air
conditioners, upgraded its wall ovens and cooktops and added water heaters to
its growing line of water products. In 1997, the business added GE
SmartWater(TM) filtration and water softening systems to its product line,
launched a new line of dishwashers, introduced the Profile Performance brand in
the high-end market segment, and completed a joint venture with National Tech
Team to further broaden its product services offerings.


INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS

            Industrial Products and Systems (11.2%, 12.1% and 13.1% of
consolidated revenues in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively) encompasses the
following businesses: Lighting, Transportation Systems, Industrial Systems, and
GE Supply. Products and services provided by each of the businesses in this
segment are sold primarily to industrial customers, including original equipment
manufacturers, industrial end users, utilities, electrical contractors, as well
as to distributors. These businesses compete against a variety of both U.S. and
non-U.S. manufacturers and service providers. Markets for industrial products
and services are diverse, global and highly price competitive. The aggregate
level of economic activity in markets for such products and services generally
lag overall economic slowdowns as well as subsequent recoveries. In the United
States, industrial markets are undergoing significant structural changes
reflecting, among other factors, increased international competition and
pressures to modernize productive capacity. A description of products and
services provided by each of the businesses in this segment follows.


            Lighting includes a wide variety of lamps - incandescent,
fluorescent, high intensity discharge, halogen and specialty - as well as
outdoor lighting fixtures, wiring devices and quartz products. Markets and
customers are global. In 1997, the business acquired certain assets of Flame
Electrical Ltd., a lighting products distributor in South Africa, and entered
into an agreement with MagneTek, Inc. that provides GE exclusive sales
responsibility for electronic ballasts in North America. In 1996, the business
acquired the remaining interest in GE Apar Lighting Private Ltd. in India,
increased its ownership interest in GE Jiabao Lighting Co., Inc., a joint
venture in China, and acquired PT Sinar Baru Electric in Indonesia. Customers
for lighting products are diverse, ranging from household consumers to
commercial and industrial end users and original equipment manufacturers.


     Transportation Systems includes locomotives, transit propulsion and control
equipment, motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles such as those used in
mining operations, motors for drilling devices, and parts and product services
for the foregoing. Locomotives are sold worldwide, principally to railroads,
while customers for other products include state and urban transit authorities
and industrial users. An increasingly important product line is the alternating




current (AC) locomotive, which was first introduced at 4,400 horsepower. In
1998, the business began delivering a new 6,000 horsepower AC unit. Product
services include maintenance and repair of locomotives and communications and
logistics systems for locomotive, train and fleet control provided through
GE-Harris Railway Electronics, L.L.C., a joint venture with Harris Corporation.
Information about Transportation Systems orders and backlog is provided on page
35 of the 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners.


            Industrial Systems includes electric motors and related products and
services for the appliance, commercial, industrial, heating, air conditioning,
automotive and utility markets; power delivery and control products such as
circuit breakers, transformers, electricity meters, relays, capacitors and
arresters sold for installation in commercial, industrial and residential
facilities; electrical and electronic industrial automation products, including
drive systems, for metal and paper processing, mining, utilities and marine
applications. Product services include engineering, management and technical
expertise for power plants and other large projects; maintenance, inspection,
repair and rebuilding of electrical apparatus produced by GE and others; and
on-site engineering and upgrading of already installed products sold by GE and
others. Other product services include the integration of software with hardware
(principally motors, drives and programmable controls) into customized systems
solutions for customers in the semiconductor, water treatment, pulp and paper,
and petroleum industries. In 1997, the business expanded its presence in this
emerging market segment through several small acquisitions. Motor products are
used within GE and also are sold externally. Industrial automation products
cover a broad range of electrical and electronic products with emphasis on
manufacturing and advanced engineering automation applications. Through a 50-50
joint venture (GE Fanuc Automation Corporation) which has two operating
subsidiaries (one in North America and the other in Europe), the business offers
a wide range of high-technology industrial automation systems and equipment,
including computer numerical controls and programmable logic controls. In 1998,
GE Fanuc acquired Total Control Products, Inc., strengthening its position in
the emerging market for open control systems.


            GE Supply operates a U.S. network of electrical supply houses and,
through its affiliates, has operations in Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and Ireland.
GE Supply offers products of General Electric and other manufacturers to
electrical contractors and to industrial, commercial and utility customers.

NBC

            NBC (5.2%, 5.7% and 6.6% of consolidated revenues in 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively) is principally engaged in the broadcast of network
television services to affiliated television stations within the United States;
the production of live and recorded television programs; the operation, under
licenses from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), of television
broadcasting stations; the operation of six cable/satellite networks around the
world, and investment and programming activities in multimedia, the Internet and
cable television. The NBC Television Network is one of four major U.S.
commercial broadcast television networks and serves more than 200 affiliated
stations within the United States. At December 31, 1998, NBC owned and operated
13 VHF and UHF television stations located in Birmingham, Ala.; Los Angeles,
Calif.; San Diego, Calif.; Hartford, Conn.; Miami, Fla.; Chicago, Ill.;
Columbus, Ohio; New York, NY; Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; Philadelphia, Pa.;
Providence, R.I.; Dallas, TX; and Washington, D.C. Broadcasting operations,
including the NBC Television Network and owned stations, are subject to FCC
regulation. NBC's operations include investment and programming activities in
cable television, principally through its ownership of CNBC, CNBC Europe, and
CNBC Asia, as well as equity investments in Arts and Entertainment, American
Movie Classics, Bravo, Prime Network and regional Sports Channels across the
United States. In 1998, NBC acquired a majority ownership position in KXAS, a
television station in Dallas, and an equity stake in Snap, an internet directory
and search services business. 1998 marked the end of a 33-year affiliation with
the National Football League. In 1997, the business entered into a strategic
alliance with Dow Jones that merged the European and Asian business news
services of Dow Jones with those of CNBC and uses Dow Jones editorial resources




in the United States. The business also entered into long-term arrangements with
the National Basketball Association (NBA) and the United States Golf Association
(USGA) that give NBC exclusive national over-the-air broadcast rights to NBA
games through the 2002 season and to the USGA's major golf championships through
the year 2003. NBC also has secured United States television rights to the 2000,
2002, 2004, 2006 and 2008 Olympic Games. In 1996, NBC and Microsoft Corporation
entered into a joint venture that provides information to users through two
separate but related sources: MSNBC Cable, a 24-hour news and information cable
channel; and MSNBC Interactive, a comprehensive interactive on-line news and
information service. NBC contributed the assets of America's Talking and NBC
Desktop to the joint ventures.


PLASTICS

            Plastics (6.6%, 7.4% and 8.2% of consolidated revenues in 1998, 1997
and 1996, respectively) includes high-performance plastics used by compounders,
molders and major original equipment manufacturers for use in a variety of
applications, including fabrication of automotive parts, computer enclosures,
compact disks and optical-quality media, major appliance parts and construction
materials. Products also include ABS resins, silicones, superabrasive industrial
diamonds and laminates. Market opportunities for many of these products are
created by substituting resins for other materials, which provides customers
with productivity through improved material performance at lower cost. These
materials are sold to a diverse worldwide customer base, mainly manufacturers.
The business has a significant operating presence around the world and
participates in numerous manufacturing and distribution joint ventures. During
1998, the business established two joint ventures with Bayer of Germany. The
first venture, Exatec, is developing polycarbonate automotive glazing technology
and manufacturing systems. The second venture, GE-Bayer Silicones Europe,
strengthens the position of the silicones business in the European region. Also
in 1998, the business neared completion on construction of a new polycarbonate
manufacturing facility in Spain that adds 130,000 metric tons of capacity.
During the year, the business announced plans to build a second plant on the
site that will increase capacity to 260,000 metric tons per year by the year
2002.


            The materials business environment is characterized by technological
innovation and heavy capital investment. Being competitive requires emphasis on
efficient manufacturing process implementation and significant resources devoted
to market and application development. Competitors include large,
technology-driven suppliers of the same, as well as other functionally
equivalent, materials. The business is cyclical and is subject to variations in
price and in the availability of raw materials, such as cumene, benzene and
methanol. Adequate capacity to satisfy growing demand and anticipation of new
product or material performance requirements are key factors affecting
competition.


POWER SYSTEMS

            Power Systems (8.4%, 8.7% and 9.7% of consolidated revenues in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively) serves utility, industrial and governmental
customers worldwide with electricity generating products, services and energy
management systems. Gas turbines are used principally in power plants for
generation of electricity and for industrial cogeneration and mechanical drive
applications. In 1998, Power Systems acquired the gas turbine division of
Stewart and Stevenson Services, Inc., which further expands its product and
product services offerings to the industrial power generation market. Aircraft
engine derivatives, also reported in the Aircraft Engines segment, are used as
industrial power sources. Centrifugal compressors are sold for application in
gas reinjection, pipeline services and such process applications as refineries
and ammonia plants. Steam turbine-generators are sold to the electric utility
industry and to private industrial customers for cogeneration applications.
Nuclear reactors, fuel and support services for both new and installed boiling
water reactors are also a part of this segment. There have been no nuclear power
plant orders in the United States since the mid-1970s. However, the business is
currently participating in the construction of nuclear power plants in Japan 




and Taiwan. The business continues to invest in advanced technology development
and to focus its resources on refueling and servicing its installed
boiling-water reactors.

            Worldwide competition for power generation products and services is
intense. Demand for most power generation products and services is worldwide and
as a result is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each
country in which the business participates. In the United States, demand for
power generation equipment is sensitive to the financial condition of the
electric utility industry as well as the electric power conservation efforts by
power users. Internationally, the influence of petroleum and related prices has
a large impact on demand. For information about orders and backlog, see page 37
of the 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners.


TECHNICAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

            Technical Products and Services (5.3%, 5.4% and 5.9% of consolidated
revenues in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively) consists of technology operations
providing products, systems and services to a variety of customers. Principal
businesses included in this segment are Medical Systems and Information
Services.


            Medical Systems include magnetic resonance (MR) scanners, computed
tomography (CT) scanners, x-ray, nuclear imaging, ultrasound, and other
diagnostic and therapy equipment, and product services sold to hospitals and
medical facilities worldwide. Product services include remote diagnostic and
repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well
as computerized data management and customer productivity services. GE Medical
Systems has a significant operating presence in Europe and Asia, including the
operations of its affiliates, GE Medical Systems S.A. (France), GE Yokogawa
Medical Systems (Japan) and WIPRO GE Medical Systems (India). Acquisitions and
joint ventures continue to expand GE Medical Systems global activities. In 1998,
the business completed three strategic acquisitions: Marquette Medical Systems,
a global leader in diagnostic cardiology and patient monitoring devices,
Diasonics Vingmed Ultrasound, a leading maker of cardiac ultrasound systems, and
Elscint Ltd., which enhances Medical Systems' position in the nuclear imaging
and magnetic resonance imaging segments. In 1997, the business acquired Lockheed
Martin Medical Systems and a 20% stake in ALI, a leader in ultrasound image
archiving. See page 37 of the 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners for information
about orders and backlog of GE Medical Systems.


            Business-to-business electronic commerce solutions are provided to
over 100,000 trading partners around the world by GE Information Services
(GEIS). Its global networked-based solutions include Electronic Data Interchange
and messaging services, Internet, intranet and systems integration services, and
a line of applications that help customers to lower their costs, reduce cycle
times, and improve quality in purchasing, logistics, and supplier and
distribution channel management.

            Serving a range of customers with special needs (which are rapidly
changing in areas such as medical and information systems), businesses in this
segment compete against a variety of both U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers or
services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in
design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing
are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services.
Throughout the world, demands on health care providers to control costs have
become much more important. Medical Systems is responding with cost-effective
technologies that improve operating efficiency and clinical productivity.



ALL OTHER GE

            All Other GE (0.3%, 0.3% and 0.4% of consolidated revenues in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively) consists mostly of income from licensing the use of
GE technology and patents to others. As discussed in note 2 of the 1998 Annual
Report to Share Owners, effective on January 1, 1999 GE transferred certain
licenses and intellectual property pursuant to an agreement to sell the former
RCA Consumer Electronics business.


GECS

            GECS (48.5%, 44.0% and 41.3% of consolidated revenues in 1998, 1997
and 1996, respectively) consists of 28 businesses that, for purposes of
analysis, are grouped into five operating activities: consumer services,
equipment management, mid-market financing, specialized financing and specialty
insurance. Very little of the financing provided by GECS businesses involves
products that are manufactured by GE.


            GE Capital's activities are subject to a variety of federal and
state regulations including, at the federal level, the Consumer Credit
Protection Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and certain regulations issued
by the Federal Trade Commission. A majority of states have ceilings on rates
chargeable to customers in retail time sales transactions, installment loans and
revolving credit financing. Common carrier services of GE Americom are subject
to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission. Certain GECS
consolidated affiliates are restricted from remitting funds to GECS in the form
of dividends or loans by a variety of regulations, the purpose of which is to
protect affected insurance policyholders, depositors or investors. GECS'
international operations are also subject to regulation in their respective
jurisdictions. To date, compliance with such regulations has not had a material
adverse effect on GE Capital's financial position or results of operations.


            On March 28, 1991, GE entered into an agreement to make payments to
GE Capital, constituting additions to pre-tax income, to the extent necessary to
cause the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of GE Capital and consolidated
affiliates (determined on a consolidated basis) to be not less than 1.10 for the
period, as a single aggregation, of each GE Capital fiscal year commencing with
fiscal year 1991. The agreement can only be terminated by written notice and
termination is not effective until the third anniversary of the date of such
notice. GE Capital's ratios of earnings to fixed charges for the years 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively, were 1.50, 1.48 and 1.53, substantially above the
level at which payments would be required. Under a separate agreement, GE has
committed to make a capital contribution to GE Capital in the event certain GE
Capital preferred stock is redeemed and such redemption were to cause the GE
Capital debt-to-equity ratio, excluding from equity all net unrealized gains and
losses on investment securities, to exceed 8 to 1.


            A description of principal businesses included in each of GECS five
operating activities follows.


Consumer Services

            GE Financial Assurance ("GEFA") provides consumers financial
security solutions by selling a wide variety of insurance, investment and
retirement products, primarily in the United States and Japan. These products
help consumers accumulate wealth, transfer wealth, and protect their lifestyles
and assets and are sold through a family of regulated insurance and annuity
companies. GEFA's principal product lines are annuities (deferred and immediate;
either fixed or variable), life insurance (universal, term, ordinary and group),
guaranteed investment contracts, mutual funds, long-term care insurance,
supplemental accident and health insurance, personal lines of automobile
insurance and credit insurance. The distribution of these products is



accomplished through four distribution methods: intermediaries (brokerage
general agents, banks, securities brokerage firms, personal producing general
agents and specialized brokers), career or dedicated sales forces, marketing
through businesses and affinity groups and direct marketing. In 1998, GEFA
acquired the infrastructure and sales force of Toho Mutual Life, establishing a
major presence in the life insurance business in Japan.


            GE Capital Auto Financial Services ("AFS") is a full service
provider of automobile financing for automobile dealers, manufacturers and their
customers in North America, and, to a lesser extent, Asia. In the United States,
AFS is one of the leading independent auto lessors for new and used lease
financing and, to a much lesser degree, sub-prime and prime retail financing to
customers. AFS also provides private-label financing for American Isuzu Motors,
Inc. and participates in a private-label purchase program with Volvo of North
America. In addition, AFS offers inventory financing programs and direct loans
to segments of the automotive industry, including dealers and finance companies.
AFS' Asian activities include affiliates in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Thailand and
Japan. AFS also maintains additional presence in Asia through equity investments
in Indonesia, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, Korea, and India.


            GE Capital Auto Financial Services Europe ("AFS Europe") is a
leading independent provider of automobile financing products to automobile
dealers and their customers in Europe. Products include hire purchase, finance
leases, loans and insurance premium financing. AFS Europe has a significant
presence in 13 countries throughout Western and Central Europe including the
United Kingdom, Ireland, Portugal, France, Spain, Italy, Sweden, Denmark,
Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Switzerland and Austria.


            GE Card Services ("CS") provides sales financing services to North
American retailers in a broad range of consumer industries. Details of financing
plans differ, but include customized private-label credit card programs with
retailers and inventory financing programs with manufacturers, distributors and
retailers. CS provides financing directly to customers of retailers or purchases
the retailers' customer receivables. Most of the retailers sell a variety of
products of various manufacturers on a time sales basis. The terms for these
financing plans differ according to the size of contract and credit standing of
the customer. CS generally maintains a security interest in the merchandise
financed. Financing is provided to consumers under contractual arrangements,
both with and without recourse to retailers. The wide range of financial
services provided by CS includes application processing, sales authorization,
statement billings, customer services and collection services. CS provides
inventory financing for retailers primarily in the appliance and consumer
electronics industries. CS maintains a security interest in the inventory and
retailers are obliged to maintain insurance coverage for the merchandise
financed. CS also provides and services MasterCard and Visa credit card loan
products issued to retail customers throughout the United States. These loans
originate through loan portfolio acquisitions, direct mail campaigns,
private-label credit card loan conversions, telemarketing efforts and
point-of-sale applications. CS also issues and services the GE Capital Corporate
Card product, providing payment and information systems which help medium and
large-sized companies reduce travel costs, and the GE Capital Purchasing Card
product, which helps customers streamline their purchasing and accounts payable
processes. CS has a noncontrolling interest in Montgomery Ward Holding Corp.
(MWHC), a retail organization, and certain other service and financial services
organizations. As discussed on page 40 of the 1998 Annual Report to Share
Owners, MWHC filed a bankruptcy petition for reorganization in 1997 and has
announced plans to emerge from bankruptcy protection in 1999. CS also provides
financing to customers of MWHC and affiliates.


            GE Capital Global Consumer Finance ("GCF") is a leading provider of
credit services to non-U.S. retailers and consumers. GCF provides private-label
credit cards and proprietary credit services to retailers in Europe, Asia, and,
to a lesser extent, South America as well as offering a variety of
direct-to-consumer credit programs such as consumer loans, bankcards and credit
insurance. GCF's wide range of proprietary financial services includes
private-label credit cards, credit promotion and accounting services, billing



(in the retailer's name) and customer credit and collection services. During
1998, GCF expanded its global presence through acquisitions including Agrobanka
in the Czech Republic, Prokredit Ltd. in Switzerland, and Koei Credit and Lake
Finance in Japan. In addition, GCF launched a bankcard joint venture in India
and a retail financing joint venture in Brazil. GCF provides financing to
consumers through operations in the United Kingdom, Austria, France, Ireland,
Germany, The Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Switzerland, Czech
Republic, Japan, Thailand, Hong Kong, China, Brazil and Australia and joint
ventures in Indonesia, India and Brazil.


            GE Capital Mortgage Services, Inc. ("GECMSI"), a wholly-owned
affiliate of GE Capital Mortgage Corporation, is engaged primarily in the
business of originating, purchasing, selling and servicing residential mortgage
loans collateralized by one-to-four-family homes located throughout the United
States. GECMSI obtains servicing through the origination and purchase of
mortgage loans and servicing rights, and primarily packages the loans it
originates and purchases into mortgage-backed securities, which it sells to
investors. GECMSI also originates and services home equity loans.


Equipment Management

            GE Capital Aviation Services ("GECAS") is a global commercial
aviation financial services business that offers a broad range of financial
products to airlines and aircraft operators, owners, lenders and investors.
Financial products include financing leases, operating leases, and
tax-advantaged and other incentive-based financing. GECAS also provides asset
management, marketing, and technical support services to aircraft owners,
lenders and investors. GECAS has firm orders and options for more than 250 new
Boeing and Airbus aircraft with deliveries scheduled through 2006. GECAS current
fleet comprises 850 owned and managed aircraft leased to more than 175 customers
in 58 countries. During 1998, GECAS acquired a commercial aviation training
business from Raytheon Company. The training facility, located at London's
Gatwick airport, operates a wide range of full-flight motion simulators to train
commercial pilots and serves more than 100 airlines.


            GE Capital Fleet Services ("GECFS") is one of the leading corporate
fleet management companies with operations in North America, Europe, Australia,
New Zealand, Brazil and Japan with approximately 950,000 cars and trucks under
lease and service management. The primary product in North America is a Terminal
Rental Adjustment Clause (TRAC) lease through which the customer assumes the
residual risk - that is, risk that the book value will be greater than market
value at lease termination. In Europe, the primary product is a closed-end lease
in which GECFS assumes residual risk. In addition to the services directly
associated with the lease, GECFS offers value-added fleet management services
designed to reduce customers' total fleet management costs. These services
include, among others, maintenance management programs, accident services,
national account purchasing programs, fuel programs and title and licensing
services. GECFS customer base is diversified with respect to industry and
geography and includes many Fortune 500 companies. In 1998, GECFS expanded its
fleet management services with acquisitions of fleet logistics businesses in the
United Kingdom, The Netherlands, Brazil and New Zealand.


            GE Capital Information Technology Solutions ("IT Solutions") is a
leading worldwide provider of a broad array of information technology products
and services, including full life cycle services that provide customers with
cost-effective control and management of their information systems. Products
offered include desktop personal computers, client server systems, UNIX systems,
local and wide area network hardware, and software. Services offered include
network design, network support, asset management, help desk, disaster recovery,
enterprise management and financial services. IT Solutions serves commercial,
educational and governmental customers in over 20 countries.



            Transport International Pool ("TIP") is one of the global leaders in
renting, leasing, selling and financing transportation equipment. TIP's fleet of
over 260,000 dry freight, refrigerated and double vans, flatbeds, intermodal
assets, and specialized trailers is available for rent, lease or purchase at
over 240 locations in the United States, Europe, Canada, and Mexico. TIP's
commercial vehicle fleet of over 25,000 units is available for rent, lease, or
purchase in the United Kingdom. TIP also finances new and used trailers and buys
trailer fleets. During 1998, TIP acquired the operating assets of Trailer
Leasing Co., Inc., a trailer rental and leasing company in the United States.
TIP also acquired a majority interest in Bay Cities Leasing LLC, a United States
entity predominately doing business as a lessor of intermodal equipment. TIP's
customer base comprises trucking companies, railroads, shipping lines,
manufacturers and retailers.


            In May 1998, GE Capital and Sea Containers Ltd. formed GE SeaCo SRL
("GE SeaCo"), a joint venture which operates the combined marine container
fleets of Genstar Container Corporation ("Genstar") and Sea Containers. GE SeaCo
is one of the world's largest lessors of marine shipping containers with a
combined fleet of over 1,100,000 TEU ("twenty-foot equivalent units") of
dry-cargo, refrigerated and specialized containers for global cargo transport.
Lessees are primarily shipping lines, which lease on a long-term or master lease
basis. Concurrent with the formation of the joint venture, GE Capital Container
Finance Corporation ("GECCF") was created to service the existing finance lease
portfolio formerly run by Genstar, and to provide traditional finance leases and
structured finance products to the global marine container industry.


            GE Capital is a limited partner in Penske Truck Leasing ("Penske"),
which operates the second largest full-service truck leasing business and one of
the largest commercial and consumer truck rental businesses in the United
States. Penske operates through a national network of full-service truck leasing
and rental facilities. At December 31, 1998, Penske had a fleet of about 78,000
tractors, trucks and trailers in its leasing and rental fleets and provided
contract maintenance programs or other support services for about 32,000
additional vehicles. Penske also provides dedicated logistics operations
support, which combines company-employed drivers with its full-service lease
vehicles to provide dedicated contract carriage services. In addition, Penske
offers supply chain services such as distribution consulting, warehouse
management and information systems support.

            GE American Communications ("GE Americom") is a leading satellite
service supplier to a diverse array of customers, including the broadcast and
cable TV industries, broadcast radio, business information and integrated
communications services for government and commercial customers. GE Americom
operates 13 communications satellites and maintains a supporting network of
earth stations, central terminal offices, and telemetry, tracking and control
facilities.


            GE Capital Railcar Services ("GERSCO") is one of the leading railcar
leasing companies in North America, with a fleet of 186,000 railcars in its
total portfolio. Serving Class 1 railroads, short-line railroads, and shippers
throughout North America, GERSCO offers one of the most diverse fleets in the
industry, and a variety of lease options. GERSCO also owns and operates a
network of railcar repair and maintenance facilities located throughout North
America. The repair facilities offer a variety of services, ranging from light
maintenance to heavy repair of damaged railcars. The company also provides
railcar management, administration and other services. In addition, GERSCO is a
pan-European provider of rail transport services, offering a broad range of
railcar equipment and rail-related services to railroads, shippers and other
transport providers.



            GE Capital Modular Space ("GECMS") provides commercial mobile and
modular structures for rental, lease and sale from over 100 facilities in the
United States, Europe, Canada and Mexico. The primary markets served include
construction, education, healthcare, financial, commercial, institutional and
government. GECMS products are available as custom mobile and modular buildings,
designed to customer specifications, or are available through the GECMS stock
fleet of approximately 120,000 mobile and modular units. During 1998, GECMS
continued its European growth through the acquisition of certain units of the
modular structure business of MVS GmbH. This acquisition doubled the size of the
European fleet to approximately 50,000 units.


Mid-market Financing

            GE Capital Commercial Equipment Financing ("CEF") offers a broad
line of financial products including leases and loans to middle-market
customers, including manufacturers, distributors, dealers and end-users, as well
as municipal financing. Products are either held for CEF's own account or
brokered to third parties. Generally, transactions range in size from $50
thousand to $50 million, with financing terms from 36 to 180 months. CEF also
maintains an asset management operation that both redeploys off-lease equipment
and monitors asset values. The portfolio includes loans and leases for vehicles,
manufacturing equipment, corporate aircraft, construction equipment, medical
diagnostic equipment, office equipment, telecommunications equipment and
electronics.


            GE Capital Vendor Financial Services ("VFS") provides financing
services to over 90 equipment manufacturers and more than 3,500 dealers in North
America, Europe and Asia. Customers include major U.S. and foreign manufacturers
in a variety of industries including information technology, office equipment,
healthcare, telecommunications, energy and industrial equipment. VFS establishes
sales financing in two ways - by forming captive partnerships with manufacturers
that do not have them, and by outsourcing captives from manufacturers that do.
VFS offers industry-specific knowledge, leading edge technology, leasing and
equipment expertise, and global capabilities. In addition, VFS provides an
expanding array of related financial services to customers including trade
payables financing.


            GE Capital European Equipment Finance ("EEF") is one of Europe's
leading diversified equipment leasing businesses, offering financial solutions
on a single-country or pan-European basis. Customers include manufacturers,
vendors and end-users in industries such as office imaging, materials handling,
corporate aircraft, information technology, broadcasting, machine tools,
telecommunications and transportation. Products and services include loans,
leases, off-balance sheet financing, master lease coordination and other
services, such as helping end-users increase purchasing power through financing
options and helping manufacturers and vendors offer leasing programs.


Specialized Financing

            GE Capital Real Estate ("Real Estate") provides funds for the
acquisition, refinancing and renovation of a wide range of commercial and
residential properties located throughout the United States, and, to a lesser
extent, in Canada, Mexico, Europe, and the Far East. Real Estate also provides
asset management services to real estate investors and selected services to real
estate owners. Lending is a major portion of Real Estate's business in the form
of intermediate-term senior or subordinated fixed and floating-rate loans
secured by existing income-producing commercial properties such as office
buildings, rental apartments, shopping centers, industrial buildings, mobile
home parks, hotels and warehouses. Loans range in amount from single-property
mortgages typically not less than $5 million to multi-property portfolios of
several hundred million dollars. Approximately 90% of all loans are senior
mortgages. Real Estate purchases and provides restructuring financing for
portfolios of real estate, mortgage loans, limited partnerships, and tax-exempt
bonds. Real Estate's business also includes the origination and securitization




of low leverage real estate loans, which are intended to be held less than one
year before outplacement. To a lesser degree, Real Estate provides equity
capital for real estate partnerships through the holding of limited partnership
interests and receives preferred returns; typically such investments range from
$2 million to $10 million. Real Estate also offers a variety of real estate
management services to outside investors, institutions, corporations, investment
banks, and others through its real estate services subsidiaries. Asset
management services include acquisitions and dispositions, strategic asset
management, asset restructuring, and debt and equity management. Real Estate
also provides investment products and advisory and asset management services to
pension fund clients through GE Capital Investment Advisors, its registered
investment advisor, as well as loan administration and servicing through GE
Capital Asset Management. In addition, Real Estate offers owners of multi-family
housing ways to reduce costs and enhance value in properties by offering buying
services (e.g., for appliances, roofing).


            GE Capital Structured Finance Group ("SFG") provides specialized
financial products and services to clients in the commercial and industrial,
communications, energy, and transportation sectors, worldwide. SFG combines
industry and technical expertise with significant financial capabilities to
deliver a full range of sophisticated financial services and products. Services
include project finance (construction and term), corporate finance, acquisition
finance and arrangement and placement services. Products include a variety of
debt and equity instruments, as well as structured transactions, including
leasing and partnerships.


            GE Capital Commercial Finance ("CF") is a leading provider of
revolving and term debt and equity to finance acquisitions, business expansion,
bank refinancings, recapitalizations and other special situations. Products also
include asset securitization facilities, capital expenditure lines and
bankruptcy-related facilities. Transactions typically range in size from under
$5 million to over $200 million. CF's clients are owners, managers and buyers of
both public and private companies, principally manufacturers, distributors,
retailers and diversified service providers in the healthcare, retail and
communications industries. Through its Merchant Banking Group, CF provides
senior debt, subordinated debt and bridge financing to buyout and private equity
firms, and co-invests equity with buying groups or invests directly on a select
basis.


            GE Equity, formerly GE Capital Equity Capital Group, purchases
equity investments, primarily convertible preferred and common stock investments
including, in some cases, stock warrants convertible into equity ownership. GE
Equity's primary objective is long-term capital appreciation. Investments
include the retail, financial services, healthcare, food and beverage, cable and
broadcasting industries. The portfolio is geographically diversified with
investments located throughout the United States, as well as in Latin America,
Europe and Asia.


Specialty Insurance

            GE Global Insurance, together with its affiliates, writes
substantially all lines of reinsurance and certain lines of property and
casualty insurance. GE Global Insurance has two principal subsidiaries,
Employers Reinsurance Corporation and Kemper Reinsurance Company. These
affiliates, together with their direct and indirect subsidiaries, reinsure
property and casualty risks written by more than 1,000 insurers around the
world. They also write certain specialty lines of insurance on a direct basis,
principally excess workers' compensation for self-insurers, medical malpractice
coverage for physicians and dentists, errors and omissions coverage for
insurance agents and brokers, excess indemnity for self-insurers of medical
benefits, and libel and allied torts. Other property and casualty affiliates
write excess and surplus lines insurance and provide reinsurance brokerage
services. The life reinsurance affiliates are engaged in the reinsurance of life
insurance products, including term, whole and universal life, annuities, group
long-term health products and the provision of financial reinsurance to life
insurers.



            FGIC Holdings ("FGIC"), through its subsidiary, Financial Guaranty
Insurance Company ("Financial Guaranty"), is an insurer of municipal bonds,
including new issues, bonds traded in the secondary market and bonds held in
unit investment trusts and mutual funds. Financial Guaranty also guarantees
certain taxable structured debt. The guaranteed principal, after reinsurance,
amounted to approximately $131 billion at December 31, 1998. Approximately 86%
of the business written to date by Financial Guaranty is municipal bond
insurance. FGIC subsidiaries provide a variety of services to state and local
governments and agencies, liquidity facilities in variable-rate transactions,
municipal investment products and other services.


            GE Capital Mortgage Insurance is engaged principally in providing
residential mortgage guaranty insurance. Operating in 25 field locations, GE
Capital Mortgage Insurance is licensed in 50 states, the District of Columbia
and the Virgin Islands. At December 31, 1998, GE Capital Mortgage Insurance was
the mortgage insurance carrier for over 1,480,000 residential homes, with total
insurance in force aggregating approximately $153 billion and total risk in
force aggregating approximately $42 billion. GE Capital Mortgage Insurance also
provides mortgage guaranty insurance in the United Kingdom, Canada, and
Australia.


            GE Insurance Holdings (formerly Consolidated Financial Insurance) is
a leading specialty insurer with operations in 13 European countries, Australia
and the Philippines. GE Insurance Holdings is one of the leading payment
protection insurers in the United Kingdom and Europe. Payment protection
insurance is designed to protect customers' loan repayment obligations in the
event of unemployment, disability or death. The product is sold alongside most
forms of consumer credit through banks, building societies and finance houses.
GE Insurance Holdings also provides an extensive range of personal investment
products, including pension and purchased life annuities, home income plans and
investment bonds through a network of over 6,000 independent financial advisors
and a direct sales force, in the United Kingdom. In addition, GE Insurance
Holdings sells insurance administration services for extended product warranty
insurance and pet insurance, provides travel and personal accident insurance,
and offers the management of uninsured loss claims on behalf of victims of
traffic accidents.


GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTS, EXPORTS FROM THE U.S. AND TOTAL INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

            Financial data for geographic segments (based on the location of the
Company operation supplying goods or services and including exports from the
U.S. to unaffiliated customers) are reported in note 29 to consolidated
financial statements on page 66 of the 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners.


            Additional financial data about GE's exports from the U.S. and total
international operations are on pages 40 and 41 of the 1998 Annual Report to
Share Owners.


ORDERS BACKLOG

            See pages 35, 37 and 46 of the 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners
for information about GE's backlog of unfilled orders.


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

            Total expenditures for research and development were $1,930 million
in 1998. Total expenditures had been $1,891 million in 1997 and $1,886 million
in 1996. Of these amounts, $1,537 million in 1998 was GE-funded ($1,480 million
in 1997 and $1,421 million in 1996); and $393 million in 1998 was funded by
customers ($411 million in 1997 and $465 million in 1996), principally the U.S.
government. Aircraft Engines accounts for the largest share of GE's research and



development expenditures from both GE and customer funds. Medical Systems, Power
Systems, Transportation Systems and Plastics made other significant expenditures
of GE and customer research and development funds.


            Approximately 8,000 person-years of scientist and engineering effort
were devoted to research and development activities in 1998, with about 87% of
the time involved primarily in GE-funded activities.


ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

            See pages 46 and 60 of GE's 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners for a
discussion of environmental matters.


EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

            At year-end 1998, General Electric Company and consolidated
affiliates employed 293,000 persons, of whom approximately 163,000 were in the
United States. For further information about employees, see page 47 of the 1998
Annual Report to Share Owners.


            Approximately 35,000 GE manufacturing, engineering and service
employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining
purposes by a total of approximately 165 different local collective bargaining
groups. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are
affiliated with, and bargain in conjunction with, the International Union of
Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers (IUE-AFL-CIO).
During 1997, General Electric Company negotiated three-year contracts with
unions representing a substantial majority of those United States employees who
are represented by unions. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2000.
NBC is party to approximately 100 labor agreements covering about 2,000 staff
employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States.
These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are
generally for a term ranging from three to five years.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

            See Part III, Item 10 of this 10-K Report for information about
Executive Officers of the Registrant.


OTHER

            Because of the diversity of the Company's products and services, as
well as the wide geographic dispersion of its production facilities, the Company
uses numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for its
operations. The Company has not been adversely affected by inability to obtain
raw materials.


            The Company owns, or holds licenses to use, numerous patents. New
patents are continuously being obtained through the Company's research and
development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used
both within the Company and licensed to others, but no operating segment is
substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.



            Agencies of the U.S. Government constitute GE's largest single
customer. An analysis of sales of goods and services as a percentage of revenues
follows:


                                           % of Consolidated
                                                Revenues        % of GE Revenues
                                           -----------------    ----------------
                                             1998 1997 1996      1998 1997 1996
                                             ---- ---- ----      ---- ---- ----
Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies        2%   2%   3%        4%   3%   4%
Aircraft Engines defense-related sales         1    2    2         3    3    3


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

            Manufacturing operations are carried out at approximately 125
manufacturing plants located in 30 states in the United States and Puerto Rico
and at some 155 manufacturing plants located in 30 other countries.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

GENERAL

            As previously reported, on March 12, 1993, a complaint was filed in
United States District Court for the District of Connecticut by ten employees of
the Company's former Aerospace business, purportedly on behalf of all GE
Aerospace employees whose GE employment status is or was affected by the then
planned transfer of GE Aerospace to a new company controlled by the stockholders
of Martin Marietta Corporation. The complaint sought to clarify and enforce the
plaintiffs' claimed rights to pension benefits in accordance with, and rights to
assets then held in, the GE Pension Plan (the "Plan"). The complaint names the
Company, the trustees of the GE Pension Trust ("Trust"), and Martin Marietta
Corporation and one of its former plan administrators as defendants. The
complaint alleged primarily that the Company's planned transfer of certain
assets of the Trust to a Martin Marietta pension trust, in connection with the
transfer of the Aerospace business, violated the rights of the plaintiffs under
the Plan and applicable provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 and the Internal Revenue Code. The complaint sought equitable and
declaratory relief, including an injunction against transfer of the Plan assets
except under circumstances and protections, if any, approved by the court, an
order that the Company disgorge all profits allegedly received by it as a result
of any such transfer and the making of restitution to the Trust for alleged
investment losses resulting from the Company's treatment of Plan assets in
connection with the transaction or alternatively the transfer of additional
assets from the Trust to a new Martin Marietta pension trust, and an order
requiring Martin Marietta to continue to offer transferred employees all accrued
pension-related benefits for which they were eligible under the Plan as of the
closing date of the transfer of the GE Aerospace business to Martin Marietta. On
March 23, 1993, the Company and Martin Marietta Corporation filed motions to
dismiss the complaint on the basis that the complaint does not state any claim
upon which relief can be granted as a matter of law. On April 2, 1993, the
transfer of the Aerospace business occurred, and on June 7, 1993, the court
issued an order denying plaintiffs' request for injunctive relief. On September
26, 1996, the District Court granted defendants' motion to dismiss those claims
which were based on allegations that the transfer of plan assets was unlawful,
and ordered discovery on the remaining claims.


            As previously reported, the directors (other than Messrs. Cash,
Gonzalez, Jung, Langone, Murphy, Nunn, Opie, Penske and Warner) and certain
officers are defendants in a civil suit purportedly brought on behalf of the
Company as a shareholder derivative action by Leslie McNeil, Harold Sachs, Arun
Shingala and Paul and Harriet Luts (the McNeil action) in New York State Supreme
Court on November 19, 1991. The suit alleges the Company was negligent and
engaged in fraud in connection with the design and construction of containment
systems for nuclear power plants and contends that, as a result, GE has incurred



significant financial liabilities and is potentially exposed to additional
liabilities from claims brought by the Company's customers. The suit alleges
breach of fiduciary duty by the defendants and seeks unspecified compensatory
damages and other relief. On March 31, 1992, the defendants filed motions to
dismiss the suit. On September 28, 1992, the court denied the motions as
premature but ruled that they may be renewed after the completion of limited
discovery. Defendants moved for reconsideration of that order, and on April 3,
1993, the court granted defendants' motion for reconsideration and directed that
discovery be stayed pending the filing of an amended complaint. Plaintiffs filed
an amended complaint on March 18, 1994, alleging breach of fiduciary duty, waste
and indemnification claims. The defendants' time for responding to the amended
complaint has been extended until 30 days following the completion of discovery.
The defendants believe the plaintiffs' claims are without merit.

ENVIRONMENTAL

            As previously reported, in April 1997, the United States
Environmental Protection Agency informed the Company that it was considering
issuing a complaint against the Company seeking $241,000 in penalties and
alleging violations of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act
for failure to report chemical use and releases from the Company's Waterford,
New York facility. The Complaint was issued in April 1997 seeking $226,000 in
penalties. The matter has been tentatively settled for a $92,000 penalty and
$113,000 worth of donations to local emergency response organizations.


            As previously reported, in February 1997, the New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation provided a draft complaint to the
Company seeking $254,000 in penalties and alleging violations of the state's
hazardous waste, clean water and spill acts at the Company's Waterford, New York
facility. In January 1998, the matter was settled for $234,000.


            As previously reported, in August 1996, the Florida Department of
Environmental Protection informed Greenwich Air Services that it was seeking
penalties of $278,555 for violations of the state's hazardous waste law at its
Miami facility (the facility was subsequently acquired as a portion of GE's
purchase of Greenwich which was consummated in September 1997). The matter was
settled on November 6, 1998, for $36,270 plus a supplemental wastewater
treatment project.


            For further information regarding environmental matters, see pages
46 and 60 of GE's 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners.


            It is the view of management that none of the above described
proceedings will have a material effect on the Company's financial position,
results of operations, liquidity or competitive position.



ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

            Not applicable.




                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
        MATTERS

            With respect to "Stock Exchange Information", in the United States,
GE common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (its principal market)
and on the Boston Stock Exchange. GE common stock also is listed on The Stock
Exchange, London. Trading, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.,
Composite Transactions Tape, and dividend information follows:



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Common stock market price
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  Dividends
(In dollars)                              High           Low       declared
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Fourth quarter                     $103 15/16    $69              $.35
     Third quarter                        96 7/8       72 5/8           .30
     Second quarter                       92           80 11/16         .30
     First quarter                        87 5/8       70 1/4           .30

     Fourth quarter                      $76 9/16     $59              $.30
     Third quarter                        74 5/8       61 5/16          .26
     Second quarter                       68 1/4       48 9/16          .26
     First quarter                        54 3/16      47 15/16         .26
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

            As of December 31, 1998, there were about 543,000 share owner
accounts of record.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

            Reported as data for revenues; earnings from continuing operations;
earnings from continuing operations per share; loss from discontinued
operations; net earnings; net earnings per share (basic and diluted); dividends
declared; dividends declared per share; long-term borrowings; and total assets
of continuing operations appearing on page 47 of the 1998 Annual Report to Share
Owners.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

            Reported on pages 33-35 and 37-46 (and graphs on pages 25, 33, 34,
37, 38, 39 and 40-46) of the Annual Report to Share Owners for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1998.



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

            Reported on pages 43-44 of the Annual Report to Share Owners for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

            See index under item 14.



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

            Not applicable.



                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

            Executive Officers of the Registrant (As of March 25, 1999)




            All Executive Officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an
initial term which continues until the first Board meeting following the next
annual statutory meeting of share owners and thereafter are elected for one-year
terms or until their successors have been elected. All Executive Officers have
been executives of GE for the last five years.


            The remaining information called for by this item is incorporated by
reference to "Election of Directors" in the definitive proxy statement relating
to the registrant's Annual Meeting of Share Owners to be held April 21, 1999.



ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

            Incorporated by reference to "Board of Directors and Committees,"
"Summary Compensation Table," "Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights" and
"Retirement Benefits" in the definitive proxy statement relating to the
registrant's Annual Meeting of Share Owners to be held April 21, 1999.



ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

            Incorporated by reference to "Information relating to Directors,
Nominees and Executive Officers" in the registrant's definitive proxy statement
relating to its Annual Meeting of Share Owners to be held April 21, 1999.



ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

            Incorporated by reference to "Certain Transactions" in the
registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to its Annual Meeting of Share
Owners to be held April 21, 1999.


                                     PART IV


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      (a)1. Financial statements applicable to General Electric Company and
            consolidated affiliates are contained on the page(s) indicated in
            the GE Annual Report to Share Owners for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1998.

                                                      Annual       10-K
                                                      Report       Report
                                                      Page(s)      Page(s)
                                                      -------      -------
Statement of earnings for the years
    ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996            26           F-2
Consolidated statement of changes in
    share owners' equity for the years ended
    December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996                  26           F-2
Statement of financial position at
    December 31, 1998 and 1997                        28           F-4
Statement of cash flows for the years
    ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996            30           F-6
Independent Auditors' Report                          32           F-8
Other financial information:
    Notes to consolidated financial statements        48-68        F-24 to F-44
    Operating segment information                     35-40        F-11 to F-16
                                                      64-65        F-40 to F-41
    Geographic segment information                    66           F-42
    Operations by quarter (unaudited)                 68           F-44



      (a)2. The schedules listed in Reg. 210.5-04 have been omitted because they
            are not applicable or the required information is shown in the
            consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.


      (a)3. Exhibit Index


      (3)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and By-laws, as
            amended, of General Electric Company. (Incorporated by reference to
            Exhibit of the same number to General Electric Form 8-K (Commission
            file number 1-35) filed with the Commission April 28, 1997.)


      (4)   Agreement to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
            request a copy of instruments defining the rights of holders of
            certain long-term debt of the registrant and consolidated
            subsidiaries.*

      (10)  All of the following exhibits consist of Executive Compensation
            Plans or Arrangements:

            (a)   General Electric Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended
                  effective July 1, 1991. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  of the same number to General Electric Annual Report on Form
                  10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1991.)

            (b)   General Electric Supplementary Pension Plan, as amended
                  effective July 1, 1991. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  10(e) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1991.)

            (c)   Amendment to General Electric Supplementary Pension Plan dated
                  May 22, 1992. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to
                  General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file
                  number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.)

            (d)   Amendment to General Electric Supplementary Pension Plan,
                  dated September 10, 1993. (Incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10(e) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1993.)

            (e)   Amendment to General Electric Supplementary Pension Plan,
                  dated July 1, 1994. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  10(f) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1994.)

            (f)   General Electric Insurance Plan for Directors. (Incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to General Electric Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1980.)

            (g)   General Electric Financial Planning Program, as amended
                  through September 1993. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  10(h) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K



                  (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1993.)

            (h)   General Electric Supplemental Life Insurance Program, as
                  amended February 8, 1991. (Incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10(i) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1990.)

            (i)   General Electric Directors' Retirement and Optional Life
                  Insurance Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) to
                  General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file
                  number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1986.)

            (j)   General Electric 1987 Executive Deferred Salary Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to General
                  Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number
                  1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987.)

            (k)   General Electric 1991 Executive Deferred Salary Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to General
                  Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number
                  1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990.)

            (l)   General Electric 1994 Executive Deferred Salary Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to General
                  Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number
                  1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.)

            (m)   General Electric Directors' Charitable Gift Plan, as amended
                  through May 1993. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p)
                  to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission
                  file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                  1993.)

            (n)   General Electric Leadership Life Insurance Program, effective
                  January 1, 1994. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(r)
                  to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission
                  file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31,
                  1993.)

            (o)   General Electric 1996 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
                  Directors. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the
                  General Electric Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
                  Share Owners held on April 24, 1996.)

            (p)   General Electric 1995 Executive Deferred Salary Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to General
                  Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number
                  1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.)

            (q)   General Electric 1996 Executive Deferred Salary Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) to General
                  Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number
                  1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.)

            (r)   Employment and Post-Retirement Consulting Agreement Between
                  General Electric Company and John F. Welch, Jr. (Incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit 10(w) to General Electric Annual
                  Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.)



            (s)   General Electric 1997 Executive Deferred Salary Plan.
                  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to General
                  Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number
                  1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997.)

            (t)   General Electric 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan as restated and
                  amended effective August 1, 1997. (Incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10(u) to General Electric Annual Report on Form
                  10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1997.)

            (u)   General Electric Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors, as
                  amended December 19, 1997. (Incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10(v) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K
                  (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1997.)

            (v)   General Electric 1998 Executive Deferred Salary Plan.*

            (w)   General Electric Non-Employee Director Fee Plan (Formerly the
                  Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors).*

      (11)  Statement re Computation of Per Share Earnings.**


      (12)  Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.*


      (21)  Subsidiaries of Registrant.*


      (23)  Consent of independent auditors incorporated by reference in each
            Prospectus constituting part of the Registration Statements on Form
            S-3 (Registration Nos. 33-29024, 33-3908, 33-39596, 33-39596-01,
            33-47085, 33-50639, 33-61029, 33-61029-01, 333-46551 and 333-59671),
            on Form S-4 (Registration Nos. 333-01947 and 333-74417) and on Form
            S-8 (Registration Nos. 2-84145, 33-35922, 333-01953, 333-23767,
            333-42695 and 333-74415).*


      (24)  Power of Attorney.*


      (27)  Financial Data Schedule.*


      (99)(a) Income Maintenance Agreement, dated March 28, 1991, between the
            registrant and General Electric Capital Corporation. (Incorporated
            by reference to Exhibit 28(a) to General Electric Annual Report on
            Form 10-K (Commission file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended
            December 31, 1990.)


      (99)(b) Undertaking for Inclusion in Registration Statements on Form S-8
            of General Electric Company. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
            99(b) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission
            file number 1-35) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.)



      (99)(c) Letter, dated June 29, 1995, from Dennis D. Dammerman of General
            Electric Company to Gary C. Wendt of General Electric Capital
            Corporation pursuant to which General Electric Company agrees to
            provide additional equity to General Electric Capital Corporation in
            conjunction with certain redemptions by General Electric Capital
            Corporation of share of its Variable Cumulative Preferred Stock.
            (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99(g) to General Electric
            Capital Corporation's Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No.
            33-61257.)

      *     Filed electronically herewith.

      **    Information required to be presented in Exhibit 11 is now provided
            in note 9 to the 1998 Annual Report to Share Owners in accordance
            with the provisions of FASB Statement of Financial Accounting
            Standards (SFAS) No. 128, EARNINGS PER SHARE.


      (b)   Reports on Form 8-K during the quarter ended December 31, 1998.


            No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December
            31, 1998.



                                   SIGNATURES

            Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this annual report on Form
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, and in the capacities indicated, thereunto duly authorized in
the Town of Fairfield and State of Connecticut on the 25th day of March 1999.


                                              General Electric Company
                                                    (Registrant)



                                      By  Keith S. Sherin
                                          -----------------------------------
                                          Senior Vice President, Finance, and
                                          Chief Financial Officer
                                          (Principal Financial Officer)


            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


         Signer                    Title                          Date
         ------                    -----                          ----


Keith S. Sherin
- -------------------------------
Senior Vice President, Finance,    Principal Financial Officer    March 25, 1999
and Chief Financial Officer


Philip D. Ameen
- -------------------------------
Vice President and Comptroller     Principal Accounting Officer   March 25, 1999


John F. Welch, Jr.*                Chairman of the Board of Directors
                                     (Principal Executive Officer)


Dennis D. Dammerman*               Director
Paolo Fresco*                      Director
Claudio X. Gonzalez*               Director
Kenneth G. Langone*                Director
Eugene F. Murphy*                  Director
Sam Nunn*                          Director
John D. Opie*                      Director
Roger S. Penske*                   Director
Andrew C. Sigler*                  Director
Douglas A. Warner III*             Director


A majority of the Board of Directors




*By    Benjamin W. Heineman, Jr.
      -----------------------------------
       Attorney-in-fact
       March 25, 1999



 F-1
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 25
- ---------------------

FINANCIAL SECTION

      CONTENTS

32    INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

      AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
26    Earnings
26    Changes in Share Owners' Equity
28    Financial Position
30    Cash Flows
48    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION
32    Financial Responsibility
33    Operations
33       Consolidated Operations
35       Segment Operations
40       International Operations
42    Financial Resources and Liquidity
46    Selected Financial Data

                                 [CHART HERE]
CONSOLIDATED REVENUES
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       $60.109     $70.028     $79.179     $90.840  $100.469
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                 [CHART HERE]

EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN DOLLARS)              1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         $1.71       $1.93       $2.16       $2.46     $2.80
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                 [CHART HERE]
DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER SHARE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN DOLLARS)              1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        $0.745      $0.845       $0.95       $1.08     $1.25
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


 F-2
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 26
- ---------------------




 F-3
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 27
- ---------------------







 F-4
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 28
- ---------------------





 F-5
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 29
- ---------------------





 F-6
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 30
- ---------------------




 F-7
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 31
- ---------------------





 F-8
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 32
- ---------------------


MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

The financial data in this report, including the audited financial statements,
have been prepared by management using the best available information and
applying judgment. Accounting principles used in preparing the financial
statements are those that are generally accepted in the United States.

    Management believes that a sound, dynamic system of internal financial
controls that balances benefits and costs provides a vital ingredient for the
Company's Six Sigma quality program as well as the best safeguard for Company
assets. Professional financial managers are responsible for implementing and
overseeing the financial control system, reporting on management's stewardship
of the assets entrusted to it by share owners and maintaining accurate records.

   GE is dedicated to the highest standards of integrity, ethics
and social responsibility. This dedication is reflected in written policy
statements covering, among other subjects, environmental protection, potentially
conflicting outside interests of employees, compliance with antitrust laws,
proper business practices, and adherence to the highest standards of conduct and
practices in transactions with the U.S. government. Management continually
emphasizes to all employees that even the appearance of impropriety can erode
public confidence in the Company. Ongoing education and communication programs
and review activities, such as those conducted by the Company's Policy
Compliance Review Board, are designed to create a strong compliance culture --
one that encourages employees to raise their policy questions and concerns and
that prohibits retribution for doing so.

   KPMG LLP provides an objective, independent review of management's discharge
of its obligations relating to the fairness of reporting of operating results
and financial condition. Their report for 1998 appears below.

   The Audit Committee of the Board (consisting solely of Directors from outside
GE) maintains an ongoing appraisal -- on behalf of share owners -- of the
activities and independence of the Company's independent auditors, the
activities of its internal audit staff, financial reporting process, internal
financial controls and compliance with key Company policies.





John F. Welch, Jr.            Keith S. Sherin
Chairman of the Board and     Senior Vice President, Finance, and
Chief Executive Officer       Chief Financial Officer

February 12, 1999

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


TO SHARE OWNERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY

We have audited the financial statements of General Electric Company and
consolidated affiliates as listed in Item 14 (a)1 on page 22. These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the aforementioned financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of General Electric Company and
consolidated affiliates at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.



KPMG LLP

Stamford, Connecticut
February 12, 1999


 F-9
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 33
- ---------------------

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

General Electric Company's consolidated financial statements represent the
combination of the Company's manufacturing and nonfinancial services businesses
("GE") and the accounts of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. ("GECS"). See
note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which explains how the various
financial data are presented.

    Management's Discussion of Operations is presented in three parts:
Consolidated Operations, Segment Operations and International Operations.

CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS

GE achieved record revenues, earnings and cash generation in 1998. This year's
performance again demonstrated the benefits of GE's continuing emphasis on
growth in services, Six Sigma quality and globalization.

   Revenues, including acquisitions, rose to a record $100.5 billion in 1998, up
11% from 1997. This increase was primarily attributable to continued growth from
global activities and product services. Revenues were $90.8 billion in 1997, a
15% increase from 1996 attributable primarily to increased global activities and
higher sales of product services.

   Earnings increased to a record $9.296 billion, a 13% increase from $8.203
billion reported in 1997. Earnings per share increased to $2.80 during 1998, up
14% from the prior year's $2.46. Except as otherwise noted, earnings per share
are presented on a diluted basis. Earnings in 1997 rose 13% from $7.280 billion
reported in 1996. In 1997, earnings per share increased 14% from $2.16 per share
in 1996. Growth rates in earnings per share exceeded growth rates in earnings as
a result of the ongoing repurchase of shares under the six-year, $17 billion
share repurchase plan initiated in December 1994.

    A consolidated statement of changes in share owners' equity is provided on
page 26, summarizing information about movements in equity from transactions
with share owners and other sources. Additional information about such changes
is provided in note 25.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS issued in 1998 are described below.

   Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, ACCOUNTING FOR
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES, requires that, upon adoption, all
derivative instruments (including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts) be recognized in the balance sheet at fair value, and that
changes in such fair values be recognized in earnings unless specific hedging
criteria are met. Changes in the values of derivatives that meet these hedging
criteria will ultimately offset related earnings effects of the hedged items;
effects of certain changes in fair value are recorded in equity pending
recognition in earnings. GE will adopt the Statement on January 1, 2000. The
impact of adoption will be determined by several factors, including the specific
hedging instruments in place and their relationships to hedged items, as well as
market conditions. Management has not estimated the effects of adoption as it
believes that such determination will not be meaningful until closer to the
adoption date.

   Statement of Position (SOP) 98-5, REPORTING ON THE COSTS OF START-UP
ACTIVITIES, provides guidance on accounting for start-up costs and organization
costs, which must be expensed as incurred. The SOP, which is consistent with
GE's previous accounting policy, is effective for financial statements beginning
January 1, 1999.

DIVIDENDS DECLARED IN 1998 AMOUNTED TO $4.081 BILLION. Per-share dividends of
$1.25 were up 16% from 1997, following a 14% increase from the preceding year.
GE has rewarded its share owners with 23 consecutive years of dividend growth.
The chart below illustrates that GE's dividend growth for the past five years
has significantly outpaced dividend growth of companies in the Standard & Poor's
500 stock index.

RETURN ON AVERAGE SHARE OWNERS' EQUITY reached 25.7% in 1998, up from 25.0% and
24.0% in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

                                 [CHART HERE]

GE/S&P CUMULATIVE DIVIDEND GROWTH SINCE 1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE                      14.09%      26.41%      40.24%      58.25%    83.53%
S&P 500                  4.77        9.62       18.44       23.21     28.78
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


 F-10
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 34
- ---------------------

   Except as otherwise noted, the analysis in the remainder of this section
presents GE results with GECS on an equity basis.

GE TOTAL REVENUES were $56.0 billion in 1998, compared with $54.5 billion in
1997 and $49.6 billion in 1996.

o   GE sales of goods and services were $51.5 billion in 1998, an increase of 5%
    from 1997, which in turn was 6% higher than in 1996. Volume was about 8%
    higher in 1998, including acquisitions, reflecting growth in most businesses
    during the year. While overall selling prices were down slightly in 1998,
    the effects of selling prices on sales in various businesses differed
    markedly. Revenues were also negatively affected by exchange rates for sales
    denominated in other than U.S. dollars. Volume in 1997 was about 9% higher
    than in 1996, with selling price and currency effects both slightly
    negative.

    For purposes of the required financial statement display of GE sales and
    costs of sales on pages 26 and 27, "goods" refers to tangible products, and
    "services" refers to all other sales, including broadcasting and information
    services activities. An increasingly important element of GE sales relates
    to product services, including both spare parts (goods) as well as repair
    services. Sales of product services were $12.6 billion in 1998, including
    acquisitions, a strong double-digit increase over 1997. Nearly all
    businesses reported increases in product services revenues, led by
    double-digit increases at Aircraft Engines, Transportation Systems and Power
    Systems. Operating margin from product services was approximately $2.8
    billion, up from $2.5 billion in 1997. This improvement was primarily
    attributable to strong growth at Aircraft Engines and Power Systems.

o   GE other income, earned from a wide variety of sources, was $0.7 billion in
    1998, $2.3 billion in 1997 and $0.6 billion in 1996. The decrease in other
    income in 1998 was primarily attributable to the lack of a current-year
    counterpart to the $1,538 million after-tax gain realized in 1997 from
    exchanging preferred stock in Lockheed Martin Corporation (Lockheed Martin)
    for the stock of a newly formed subsidiary as described in note 2.

o   Earnings of GECS were up 17% in 1998, following a 16% increase the year
    before. See page 37 for an analysis of these earnings.

PRINCIPAL COSTS AND EXPENSES FOR GE are those classified as costs of goods and
services sold, and selling, general and administrative expenses.

   The Six Sigma quality initiative is an important factor affecting GE's cost
structure. The benefits of Six Sigma quality are reflected in both variable and
base cost productivity (discussed on page 35) as well as in lower direct
material costs.

                                 [CHART HERE]

GE OPERATING MARGIN AS A PERCENTAGE OF SALES
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                         1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AS REPORTED              13.6%       14.4%       14.8%       11.0%     16.7%
RESTRUCTURING AND
   OTHER SPECIAL
   CHARGES                  -           -           -         4.7         -
                         ---------------------------------------------------
OPERATING MARGIN
   BEFORE RESTRUCTURING
   AND OTHER SPECIAL
   CHARGES               13.6%       14.4%       14.8%       15.7%     16.7%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Comparisons between 1998 and 1997 costs and expenses are affected by
restructuring and other special charges amounting to $2,322 million recorded in
the fourth quarter of 1997. Aggregate restructuring charges of $1,243 million
covered certain costs of plans that will enhance GE's global competitiveness
through rationalization of certain production, service and administration
activities of its worldwide industrial businesses; among these charges were $577
million of special early retirement pension, health and life benefit costs,
including a one-time voluntary early retirement program that was provided to the
U.S. work force in the 1997 labor contracts. Also included in restructuring
charges were other severance costs as well as certain costs of exiting affected
properties, including site demolitions, asset write-offs and expected losses on
subleases.

   Other special charges amounting to $1,079 million were also recorded in 1997,
principally associated with strategic decisions to enhance the long-term
competitiveness of certain industrial businesses and fourth-quarter developments
arising from past activities at several current and former manufacturing sites
not associated with any current business segments. Such special charges included
$275 million to reflect higher estimated manufacturing costs to fill firm
customer orders for an aircraft engine program and $261 million that related
principally to gas turbine warranty costs and costs arising from renegotiation
and resolution of certain disputes in the Power Systems business.

   As discussed on page 35, restructuring and other special charges are not
allocated to segments for purposes of measuring segment profit.

OPERATING MARGIN is sales of goods and services less the costs of goods and
services sold, and selling, general and administrative expenses. GE operating
margin reached a record 16.7% of sales in 1998, compared with 15.7% achieved in
1997 before the effects of restructuring and other special charges, and 14.8% in
1996. Including restructuring and other special charges, GE reported operating
margin of 11.0% of sales in 1997. The improvement in ongoing operating margin in


 F-11
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 35
- ---------------------

1998 was broad-based, with improvements in a majority of GE's businesses
reflecting the increasing benefits from GE's product services and Six Sigma
quality initiatives.

TOTAL COST PRODUCTIVITY (sales in relation to costs, both on a constant dollar
basis) has paralleled the significant improvement in GE's ongoing operating
margin. Total cost productivity in 1998 was 4.4%, reflecting benefits from the
Six Sigma quality initiative as well as higher volume. Three businesses --
Medical Systems, Power Systems and NBC -- achieved productivity in excess of 5%.
Total cost productivity was 4.2% in 1997, reflecting Six Sigma benefits and the
positive effects of higher volume. In 1997, three businesses -- Power Systems,
NBC and Plastics -- reported productivity in excess of 5%. The total
contribution of productivity in the last two years offset not only the negative
effects of total cost inflation, but also the effects of selling price
decreases.

GE INTEREST AND OTHER FINANCIAL CHARGES in 1998 amounted to $883 million,
compared with $797 million in 1997 and $595 million in 1996. Lower interest
rates in 1998 and 1997 were more than offset by higher average levels of
borrowings and other financing activities.

INCOME TAXES on a consolidated basis were 31.0% of pretax earnings in 1998,
compared with 26.6% in 1997 and 32.6% in 1996. The most significant factor
explaining 1997's lower effective tax rate was the 4.8% decrease attributable to
the realized gain on the tax-free exchange of Lockheed Martin Corporation
preferred stock. A more detailed analysis of the differences between the U.S.
federal statutory rate and the consolidated rate, as well as other information
about income tax provisions, is provided in note 8.

RETURN ON AVERAGE TOTAL CAPITAL INVESTED was 23.9% at year-end 1998, compared
with 23.6% in 1997 and 22.2% in 1996.

SEGMENT OPERATIONS

REVENUES AND SEGMENT PROFIT FOR OPERATING SEGMENTS are shown on page 36. At
year-end 1998, GE adopted SFAS No. 131, DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN
ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION, which requires segment data to be measured
and analyzed on a basis that is consistent with how business activities are
reported internally to management. The most significant change from previous
Annual Reports is that restructuring and other special charges are not included
in the measure of segment profit. Previously reported data have been restated as
required by SFAS No. 131. For additional information, including a description of
the products and services included in each segment, see note 28.

AIRCRAFT ENGINES achieved a 32% increase in revenues in 1998, following a 24%
increase in 1997, on higher volume in commercial engines and product services,
including acquisitions, in both years. Operating profit increased 30% in 1998,
and 13% in 1997, largely as a result of strong growth in product services as
well as good volume growth in commercial engines.

   In 1998, $1.6 billion of Aircraft Engines revenues were from sales to the
U.S. government, an increase of $0.1 billion from 1997, which was $0.3 billion
lower than in 1996.

   Aircraft Engines received orders of $10.8 billion in 1998, up $1.9 billion
from 1997. The backlog at year-end 1998 was $9.7 billion ($9.5 billion at the
end of 1997). Of the total, $7.5 billion related to products, about 52% of which
was scheduled for delivery in 1999, and the remainder related to 1999 product
services.

APPLIANCES revenues were 3% lower than a year ago, reflecting primarily selling
price decreases and, to a lesser extent, lower volume. Operating profit was 2%
lower as the decreases in selling prices and volume more than offset
productivity from Six Sigma. Revenues in 1997 were 4% higher than in 1996,
reflecting primarily acquisition-related volume. Operating profit increased 3%
in 1997, primarily as a result of productivity and higher volume, partially
offset by lower selling prices.

INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS revenues increased 2% in 1998, primarily as a
result of volume increases at Transportation Systems and Industrial Systems that
were partially offset by lower selling prices across most businesses in the
segment. Operating profit increased 5%, reflecting productivity from Six Sigma
and the improvement in volume, which more than offset the effects of selling
price decreases. Revenues rose 6% in 1997 as improved volume more than offset
weaker pricing across all businesses in the segment. Operating profit increased
13% in 1997, the result of Six Sigma-based productivity and volume improvements
across the segment, which more than offset the effects of lower selling prices.

    Transportation Systems received orders of $2.4 billion in 1998, about the
same as in 1997. The backlog at year-end 1998 was $2.3 billion ($2.0 billion at
the end of 1997). Of the total, $2.1 billion related to products, about 83% of
which was scheduled for shipment in 1999, and the remainder related to 1999
product services.

NBC revenues increased 2% in 1998, reflecting higher revenues in NBC's
owned-and-operated stations, including revenues from station acquisitions and
growth in cable operations, the combination of which more than offset lower
network revenues. Operating profit was 11% higher than a year ago as improved
results in international, cable operations and owned-and-operated stations, as
well as cost reductions across NBC, more than offset higher license fees for
certain prime-time programs that were renewed. Revenues decreased 2% in 1997 as
a strong advertising marketplace was more than offset by the absence of a 1997
counterpart to NBC's broadcast of the 1996 Summer Olympic Games. Operating
profit increased 19% in 1997, reflecting improved prime-time pricing, strong


 F-12
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 36
- ---------------------




 F-13
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 37
- ---------------------

growth in both owned-and-operated stations and cable operations, and increased
international distribution of programming, the combination of which more than
offset the absence of a 1997 counterpart to the Olympics broadcast and higher
license fees for certain prime-time programs that were renewed.

PLASTICS revenues decreased 1% in 1998 as lower selling prices and adverse
currency exchange rates offset slightly higher volume. Operating profit in 1998
improved by 6% as lower material costs and productivity from Six Sigma more than
offset lower selling prices. Revenues grew 3% in 1997, reflecting an increase in
volume that was largely offset by lower selling prices and adverse currency
exchange rates. Operating profit increased 4% as Six Sigma-based productivity
and higher volume more than offset lower selling prices.

POWER SYSTEMS revenues increased 7% in 1998, reflecting primarily higher volume
in product services, including acquisitions, which was partially offset by lower
selling prices. Operating profit increased 9% in 1998 as growth in product
services and productivity more than offset the effects of lower selling prices.
Revenues in 1997 were 4% higher than in 1996, primarily as a result of higher
volume in gas turbines and product services. Operating profit increased by 7%,
the result of strong productivity and higher volume, which more than offset
lower selling prices.

     Power Systems orders were $10.5 billion for 1998, an increase of more than
50% over 1997, reflecting strong U.S. market growth. The backlog of unfilled
orders at year-end 1998 was $12.4 billion ($10.5 billion at the end of 1997). Of
the total, $11.3 billion related to products, about 45% of which was scheduled
for delivery in 1999, and the remainder related to 1999 product services.

TECHNICAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES revenues rose 10% in 1998, following a 3%
increase in 1997. The improvement in revenues in both years was primarily
attributable to growth at Medical Systems, the result of higher equipment volume
and continued growth in product services, partially offset by lower selling
prices across the segment. Operating profit increased 12% in 1998 as
productivity from Six Sigma and volume increases, particularly at Medical
Systems, more than offset lower selling prices. Operating profit increased 16%
in 1997 as productivity and higher volume more than offset the effects of lower
selling prices.

   Orders received by Medical Systems in 1998 were $4.8 billion, up $0.5 billion
from 1997. The backlog of unfilled orders at year-end 1998 was $2.6 billion
($2.4 billion at the end of 1997). Of the total, $1.5 billion related to
products, about 80% of which was scheduled for delivery in 1999, and the
remainder related to 1999 product services.


                                 [CHART HERE]
OPERATING PROFIT OF GE SEGMENTS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        $6.922      $7.414      $8.273      $9.143   $10.023
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ALL OTHER GE revenues and operating profit consist primarily of residual royalty
payments and other fees earned from licensing the use of GE technology to
others. Effective January 1, 1999, GE transferred certain licenses and
intellectual property pursuant to an agreement to sell the former RCA Consumer
Electronics business. Details of licensing income derived from these assets is
provided in note 2.

GECS consists of 28 businesses that, for purposes of the analysis that follows,
are grouped into five operating activities: consumer services, equipment
management, mid-market financing, specialized financing and specialty insurance.

   GECS net earnings were $3.796 billion in 1998, up 17% from $3.256 billion in
1997, which increased 16% from 1996. Each operating activity achieved a
double-digit earnings increase in 1998. The improvement in earnings in both 1998
and 1997 was largely attributable to the effects of continued asset growth,
principally from acquisitions of businesses and portfolios and higher
origination volume.

o    GECS total revenues increased 22% to $48.7 billion in 1998, following a 22%
     increase to $39.9 billion in 1997. The increases in both years reflected
     the contributions of businesses acquired as well as growth in core volume.

o    GECS cost of goods sold is associated with activities of its computer
     equipment distribution businesses. This cost amounted to $6.8 billion in
     1998, compared with $4.1 billion in 1997 and $1.7 billion in 1996,
     principally the result of acquisition-related growth.

o    GECS interest on borrowings in 1998 was $9.0 billion, 17% higher than in
     1997, which was 4% higher than in 1996. The increases in 1998 and 1997 were
     caused by higher average borrowings used to finance asset growth, partially
     offset by the effects of lower average interest rates. The composite


 F-14
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 38
- ---------------------

     interest rate was 5.92% in 1998, compared with 6.07% in 1997 and 6.24% in
     1996. See page 43 for a discussion of interest rate risk management.

o    GECS insurance losses and policyholder and annuity benefits increased to
     $9.6 billion in 1998, compared with $8.3 billion in 1997 and $6.7 billion
     in 1996, reflecting effects of business acquisitions and growth in premium
     volume throughout the period.

o    GECS provision for losses on financing receivables increased to $1.6
     billion in 1998, compared with $1.4 billion in 1997 and $1.0 billion in
     1996. These provisions principally related to private-label credit cards,
     bank credit cards, auto loans and auto leases in the consumer services
     operations, all of which are discussed on page 39 under financing
     receivables. The increases principally reflected higher average receivable
     balances and the effects of delinquency rates -- higher during 1997 and
     lower during 1998 -- consistent with industry experience.

o    GECS other costs and expenses were $16.4 billion in 1998, an increase from
     $13.9 billion in 1997 and $11.7 billion in 1996. The increase in both 1998
     and 1997 primarily reflected costs associated with acquired businesses and
     portfolios, higher investment levels and increases in insurance commissions
     and other costs that vary directly with increased revenues. Financing
     spreads (the excess of yields over interest rates on borrowings) were
     essentially flat in 1998, 1997 and 1996, reflecting slightly lower yields
     offset by decreases in borrowing rates.

   Revenues and net earnings from operating activities within the GECS segment
for the past three years are summarized and discussed below.

                                        ----------------------------------------
(In millions)                               1998            1997           1996
                                        ----------------------------------------
REVENUES
Consumer services                       $ 15,948        $ 13,550       $ 11,109
Equipment management                      14,869          11,326          7,725
Mid-market financing                       3,751           3,009          2,781
Specialized financing                      3,368           2,828          2,944
Specialty insurance                       10,594           8,836          8,185
All other                                    164             382            (31)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Total revenues                          $ 48,694        $ 39,931       $ 32,713
                                        ----------------------------------------
NET EARNINGS

Consumer services                       $    797        $    544       $    791
Equipment management                         806             708            603
Mid-market financing                         478             391            362
Specialized financing                        745             593            563
Specialty insurance                        1,166             973            852
All other                                   (196)             47           (354)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Total net earnings                      $  3,796        $  3,256       $  2,817
================================================================================

                                 [CHART HERE]
GECS REVENUES
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       $19.875     $26.492     $32.713     $39.931   $48.694
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

    CONSUMER SERVICES revenues increased 18% in 1998 and 22% in 1997. This
growth -- largely acquisition related -- was led by higher premium and
investment income at GE Financial Assurance, the consumer savings and insurance
business of GECS. Asset growth in several of the other consumer services
businesses also contributed to the increase in 1998. Net earnings increased 47%
in 1998, following a 31% decrease in 1997. Comparisons of revenues and net
earnings throughout the period were affected by the operating results of
Montgomery Ward Holding Corp., which are discussed on page 40. Net earnings in
1998 also reflected acquisition and core volume growth, led by the Global
Consumer Finance and GE Financial Assurance businesses. Overall gains on asset
sales, including securitizations, were higher in 1997 than in 1998; gains in
1998 included the sale of certain bankcard assets. Net earnings in 1997 were
affected by increased automobile residual losses, partially offset by
acquisition and core growth, principally at GE Financial Assurance. A higher
provision for losses on financing receivables also affected earnings in both
years, as discussed previously.

     EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT revenues grew 31% in 1998, following a 47% increase in
1997, primarily as a result of acquisitions by IT Solutions and, to a lesser
extent, asset growth. Net earnings increased 14% in 1998, following a 17%
increase in 1997. Increases in both years reflected higher volumes in most
businesses resulting from origination growth and acquisitions of businesses and
portfolios, with those effects in 1998 partially offset by lower earnings at IT
Solutions and Modular Space, primarily the result of lower pricing from
competitive market conditions and higher operating expenses.


 F-15
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 39
- ---------------------

   MID-MARKET FINANCING revenues increased 25% in 1998, compared with an 8%
increase in 1997. Net earnings for these businesses grew 22% and 8% in 1998 and
1997, respectively. Asset growth resulting from higher volumes and acquisitions
of businesses and portfolios was the most significant contributing factor in
both years. Revenues and net earnings were also favorably affected in 1998 by
the disposition of certain assets.

   SPECIALIZED FINANCING revenues rose 19% and net earnings increased 26% in
1998. The increase in revenues reflected asset growth and a higher level of
asset gains, while the increase in net earnings included those factors as well
as the effects of certain tax-advantaged transactions and higher levels of tax
credits. Revenues decreased 4% in 1997, primarily as a result of lower
investment levels. Net earnings increased 5% in 1997, reflecting asset gains and
lower levels of asset write-offs.

   SPECIALTY INSURANCE revenues and net earnings both increased 20% in 1998,
following 8% revenue growth and 14% net earnings growth in 1997. The increases
in both years resulted from increased premium and investment income associated
with origination volume, acquisitions and continued growth in the investment
portfolios, as well as a higher level of realized gains on investment
securities. Net earnings in both years were also favorably affected by improved
conditions in the Mortgage Insurance business, the result of improvements in
loss experience.

     Within GE Global Insurance, the principal subsidiary of which is Employers
Reinsurance Corporation, net premiums earned increased in 1998, primarily as a
result of core and acquisition growth in both the property and casualty and life
businesses. GE Global Insurance property and casualty underwriting results
improved in 1998, reflecting a general reduction in incurred losses caused by a
decline in both the frequency and overall severity of claims, partially offset
by the effects of hurricane and other weather-related catastrophe losses. GE
Global Insurance net premiums earned on U.S. business increased in 1997 -- the
result of strong growth in the life reinsurance business -- while net premiums
earned on European business declined, reflecting the effects of currency
translation and market conditions. Property and casualty underwriting results at
GE Global Insurance decreased in 1997, reflecting increased underwriting and
operating expenses and adverse European market conditions, offset by growth in
the life reinsurance business.

   ALL OTHER GECS revenues and net earnings in 1997 included asset gains, the
largest of which was $284 million (net of tax) from a transaction that included
the reduction of the GECS investment in the common stock of Paine Webber Group
Inc.

                                 [CHART HERE]

GECS NET EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                        $2.085      $2.415      $2.817      $3.256    $3.796
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

     FINANCING RECEIVABLES are the largest GECS asset and one of its primary
sources of revenues. The portfolio of financing receivables, before allowance
for losses, increased to $124.9 billion at the end of 1998 from $106.6 billion
at the end of 1997, principally reflecting acquisition growth and origination
volume that were partially offset by securitizations and other sales of
receivables. The related allowance for losses at the end of 1998 amounted to
$3.3 billion ($2.8 billion at the end of 1997) and, in management's judgment, is
appropriate given the risk profile of the portfolio.

   A discussion of the quality of certain elements of the financing receivable
portfolio follows. "Nonearning" receivables are those that are 90 days or more
delinquent (or for which collection has otherwise become doubtful) and
"reduced-earning" receivables are commercial receivables whose terms have been
restructured to a below-market yield. The following discussion of the nonearning
and reduced-earning receivable balances and write-off amounts excludes amounts
related to Montgomery Ward Holding Corp. and affiliates, which are separately
discussed on page 40.

   Consumer financing receivables at year-end 1998 and 1997 are shown in the
following table.
                                                         -----------------------
(In millions)                                               1998           1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Credit card and personal loans                           $28,064        $25,773
Auto loans                                                 9,496          8,973
Auto financing leases                                     14,063         13,346
                                                         -----------------------
   Total consumer financing receivables                  $51,623        $48,092
                                                         -----------------------
Nonearning                                               $ 1,250        $ 1,049
  -- As percentage of total                                  2.4%           2.2%

Receivable write-offs for the year                       $ 1,357        $ 1,298
================================================================================

   The increase in credit card and personal loan portfolios primarily resulted
from acquisition growth and origination volume, partially offset by
securitizations and other sales of receivables. Both the auto loan and financing


 F-16
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 40
- ---------------------

lease portfolios increased primarily as a result of acquisition growth; however,
the increase in auto financing leases was partially offset by decreases in U.S.
lease volume. A substantial amount of the nonearning consumer receivables were
private-label credit card loans that were subject to various loss-sharing
agreements that provide full or partial recourse to the originating retailer.
Increased write-offs of consumer receivables were primarily attributable to the
impact of higher average receivable balances.

   Other financing receivables, totaling $73.3 billion at December 31, 1998,
consisted of a diverse commercial, industrial and equipment loan and lease
portfolio. This portfolio increased $14.8 billion during 1998, reflecting the
combination of acquisition growth and increased origination volume, partially
offset by sales of receivables. Related nonearning and reduced-earning
receivables were $354 million at year-end 1998, compared with $353 million at
year-end 1997.

   As discussed in note 13, Montgomery Ward Holding Corp. (MWHC) filed a
bankruptcy petition for reorganization in 1997. The GECS after-tax share of the
losses of MWHC and affiliates was $49 million in 1998 and $380 million in 1997.
The GECS investment in MWHC and affiliates at year-end was $622 million in 1998
and $795 million in 1997 (of which $578 million and $617 million, respectively,
were classified as financing receivables). GECS also provides revolving credit
card financing directly to customers of MWHC and affiliates; such receivables
totaled $3.4 billion at December 31, 1998, including $1.6 billion that had been
sold with recourse. The obligations of customers with respect to these
receivables are not affected by the bankruptcy filing. On February 1, 1999, MWHC
announced that it plans to emerge from bankruptcy protection in mid-1999 as a
result of an agreement reached with the creditors' committee.

   GECS loans and leases to commercial airlines amounted to $10.2 billion at the
end of 1998, up from $9.0 billion at the end of 1997. GECS commercial aircraft
positions also included financial guarantees, funding commitments and aircraft
orders as discussed in note 17.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

Estimated results of international activities include the results of GE and GECS
operations located outside the United States, plus all U.S. exports. Certain
GECS operations that cannot meaningfully be associated with specific geographic
areas are classified as "other international" for this purpose.

                                 [CHART HERE]

CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL REVENUES
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
INTERNATIONAL
  OPERATIONS           $14.205     $20.768     $25.447     $29.328   $33.756
EXPORTS AND LICENSING
  INCOME                 6.755       7.480       7.846       9.199     9.001
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   International revenues in 1998 were $42.8 billion (43% of consolidated
revenues), compared with $38.5 billion in 1997 and $33.3 billion in 1996. The
chart above depicts the growth in international revenues over the past five
years.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL REVENUES
                                                 -------------------------------
(In millions)                                       1998        1997        1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Europe (a)                                       $21,665     $18,166     $15,964
Pacific Basin                                      5,166       4,742       4,343
Americas                                           5,030       4,632       3,443
Other                                              1,895       1,788       1,697
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                  33,756      29,328      25,447
RCA residual licensing income                        250         287         265
Exports from the U.S. to
   external customers                              8,751       8,912       7,581
                                                -------------------------------
                                                 $42,757     $38,527     $33,293
================================================================================
(a)  Includes $944 million and $789 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively, from
     an appliance distribution affiliate that was deconsolidated in 1998.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   GE international revenues were $24.6 billion in 1998, an increase of $0.7
billion from the comparable figure in 1997, which was $2.9 billion higher than
in 1996. Over the three-year period, international revenues were slightly less
than half of total revenues. The increase in revenues during 1998 reflected
sales growth in operations based outside the United States, partially offset by
lower U.S. exports. European revenues were 11% higher in 1998, reflecting
increases in both local operations and in exports to the region, with
particularly strong growth at Aircraft Engines. As expected, Pacific Basin
revenues were 6% lower in 1998, reflecting primarily a decrease in exports to
the region. Further information about the activities of GE and GECS in Asia is
provided on page 41. International revenues from the Americas (North and South
America, except for the United States) increased 8%, primarily as a result of
strong growth in exports, particularly at Transportation Systems and Power
Systems, and slightly higher revenues from local operations.


 F-17
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 41
- ---------------------

                                 [CHART HERE]

CONSOLIDATED INTERNATTIONAL REVENUES BY REGION
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
EUROPE                  $9.043     $14.062     $18.030     $20.634   $24.353
PACIFIC BASIN            5.976       7.183       7.573       7.981     8.058
AMERICAS                 3.441       4.110       4.706       6.196     6.907
OTHER                    2.500       2.893       2.984       3.716     3.439
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   GECS international revenues were $18.2 billion in 1998, an increase of 33%
from $13.7 billion in 1997. International assets grew 36%, from $79.2 billion at
year-end 1997 to $107.8 billion at the end of 1998. Revenues in Europe increased
38% in 1998, reflecting a mix of acquisition and core growth across all GECS
operating activities. At the same time, revenues in the Pacific Basin grew 51%,
principally in Japan, and principally as a result of consumer financing
acquisitions by Global Consumer Finance and the acquisition of Toho Mutual
Life's infrastructure and sales force by GE Financial Assurance. International
revenues from the Americas increased 21% in 1998, largely as a result of
acquisitions and core growth in Canada and Latin America. Overall, these
increases reflect the continued expansion of GECS as a global provider of a wide
range of services.

   Consolidated international operating profit was $5.4 billion in 1998,
compared with $5.1 billion in 1997 and $3.8 billion in 1996. International
activities accounted for 36% of consolidated operating profit, about the same as
in 1997 on a comparable basis. Additional information is provided in note 29.

   Total assets of international operations were $128.8 billion in 1998 (36% of
consolidated assets), an increase of 32% over 1997, reflecting double-digit
growth in both GE and GECS activities outside the United States. The increase
reflected sharp growth in Asia, where current economic conditions continue to
provide a favorable environment for strategic investments. GE and GECS also had
strong asset growth in operations based in Europe and the Americas.

     The activities of GE and GECS span all global regions and primarily
encompass manufacturing for local and export markets, import and sale of
products produced in other regions, leasing of aircraft, sourcing for GE plants
domiciled in other global regions and provision of financial services within
these regional economies. As such, when certain countries such as Russia or
regions such as the Pacific Basin and Latin America experience currency and/or
economic stress, GE may have increased exposure to certain risks but also may
have new profit opportunities. Increased risks include, among other things,
higher receivables delinquencies and bad debts, delays or cancellation of sales
and orders principally related to power and aircraft-related equipment, higher
local currency financing costs and a slowdown in established financial services
activities. New profit opportunities include, among other things, lower costs of
goods sourced from countries with weakened currencies, more opportunities for
lower cost outsourcing, expansion of industrial and financial services
activities through purchases of companies or assets at reduced prices and lower
U.S. debt financing costs. Thus, while GE's global activities warrant close
monitoring and significant management attention, regional economic disruptions
had only a modest adverse effect on the overall financial position, results of
operations and liquidity of GE and GECS in 1998, and there is little change in
the outlook for 1999.

   As discussed previously, GE's international activities are diverse. Financial
results of those activities reported in U.S. dollars are affected by currency
exchange. A number of techniques are used to manage the effects of currency
exchange, including selective borrowings in local currencies and selective
hedging of significant cross-currency transactions. Principal currencies are the
major European currencies, including the euro, as well as the Japanese yen and
the Canadian dollar.

                                 [CHART HERE]

TOTAL ASSETS OF INTERNATTIONAL OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
EUROPE                $21.5869    $44.1072    $55.1956    $66.7401  $84.5179
PACIFIC BASIN           4.4908      6.4424      8.1245      8.8814   18.4266
AMERICAS                5.6118      6.5591      7.2265      8.6168   11.2481
OTHER                  11.6541     12.2167     12.4287     13.3090   14.6307
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


 F-18
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 42
- ---------------------

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

OVERVIEW

This discussion of financial resources and liquidity addresses the Statement of
Financial Position (page 28) and the Statement of Cash Flows (page 30).

   GECS is not a "captive finance company" or a vehicle for "off-balance-sheet
financing" for GE. Only a small portion of GECS business is directly related to
other GE operations. The fundamental differences between GE and GECS are
reflected in the measurements commonly used by investors, rating agencies and
financial analysts. These differences will become clearer in the discussion that
follows with respect to the more significant items in the financial statements.

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

Because GE and GECS share certain significant elements of their Statements of
Financial Position -- property, plant and equipment, and borrowings, for example
- -- the following discussion addresses significant captions in the "consolidated"
statement. Within the following discussions, however, distinction is drawn
between GE and GECS activities in order to permit analysis of each individual
statement.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES for each of the past two years comprised mainly
investment-grade debt securities held by the specialty insurance and annuity and
investment businesses of GECS in support of obligations to policyholders and
annuitants. GE investment securities were $259 million at year-end 1998, about
the same as at the end of 1997. The increase of $8.1 billion at GECS during 1998
was principally related to acquisitions and investment of premiums received. A
breakdown of the investment securities portfolio is provided in note 10.

CURRENT RECEIVABLES for GE were $8.5 billion at the end of 1998, a decrease of
$0.6 billion from year-end 1997, and included $5.4 billion due from customers at
the end of 1998, which was $0.7 billion lower than the amount due at the end of
1997. As a measure of asset management, turnover of customer receivables from
sales of goods and services was 8.8 in 1998, compared with 7.7 in 1997. Other
current receivables are primarily amounts that did not originate from sales of
GE goods or services, such as advances to suppliers in connection with large
contracts.

INVENTORIES for GE were $5.3 billion at December 31, 1998, up $0.2 billion from
the end of 1997. GE inventory turnover improved to 8.3 in 1998, compared with
7.8 in 1997, reflecting continuing improvements in inventory management.
Last-in, first-out (LIFO) revaluations decreased $87 million in 1998, compared
with decreases of $119 million in 1997 and $128 million in 1996. Included in
these changes were decreases of $29 million, $59 million and $58 million in
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, that resulted from lower LIFO inventory
levels. There were net cost decreases in each of the last three years.

                                 [CHART HERE]

GE INVENTORY TURNOVER
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          6.86        6.90        7.57        7.75      8.25
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Inventories (at FIFO) and customer receivables from sales of goods or
services are two key components of GE's working capital turnover measurement.
Working capital turnover increased from 6.3 turns in 1996 to 7.4 and 9.2 turns
in 1997 and 1998, respectively. Working capital also includes trade accounts
payable and progress collections.

   GECS inventories were $744 million and $786 million at December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively. The decrease in 1998 primarily reflected improved inventory
management in the computer equipment distribution businesses.

FINANCING RECEIVABLES of GECS were $121.6 billion at year-end 1998, net of
allowance for doubtful accounts, up $17.8 billion over 1997. These receivables
are discussed on pages 39 and 40 and in notes 7 and 13.

OTHER RECEIVABLES of GECS were $26.0 billion and $18.3 billion at December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively. Of the 1998 increase, $3.6 billion was attributable
to acquisitions and the remainder resulted from core growth.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (including equipment leased to others) was $35.7
billion at December 31, 1998, up $3.4 billion from 1997. GE property, plant and
equipment consists of investments for its own productive use, whereas the
largest element for GECS is in equipment provided to third parties on operating
leases. Details by category of investment can be found in note 15.

     GE total expenditures for new plant and equipment during 1998 totaled $2.0
billion, down $0.2 billion from 1997. Total expenditures for the past five years
were $10.2 billion, of which 38% was investment for growth through new capacity
and product development; 32% was investment in productivity through new


 F-19
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 43
- ---------------------

equipment and process improvements; and 30% was investment for such other
purposes as improvement of research and development facilities and safety and
environmental protection.

   GECS additions to equipment leased to others, including business
acquisitions, were $7.2 billion during 1998 ($6.8 billion during 1997),
primarily reflecting acquisitions of vehicles and aircraft.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS were $23.6 billion at year-end 1998, up from $19.1 billion at
year-end 1997. GE intangibles increased to $10.0 billion from $8.8 billion at
the end of 1997, principally as a result of goodwill from a number of
acquisitions, the largest of which was the equipment services division of
Stewart & Stevenson. The $3.3 billion increase in GECS intangibles also related
primarily to goodwill from acquisitions, the largest of which were the consumer
finance business of Lake Corporation (Lake) in Japan and Metlife Capital in the
United States.

ALL OTHER ASSETS totaled $52.9 billion at year-end 1998, an increase of $13.1
billion from the end of 1997. GE other assets increased $3.3 billion,
principally reflecting an increase in the prepaid pension asset and investments
in certain newly acquired affiliates that were not yet consolidated. The
increase in GECS other assets of $9.9 billion related principally to additional
investments in associated companies, increases in assets acquired for resale,
primarily residential mortgages, and increases in "separate accounts," which are
investments controlled by policyholders and are associated with identical
amounts reported as insurance liabilities.

CONSOLIDATED BORROWINGS aggregated $175.0 billion at December 31, 1998, compared
with $144.7 billion at the end of 1997. The major debt-rating agencies evaluate
the financial condition of GE and of GE Capital (the major public borrowing
entity of GECS) differently because of their distinct business characteristics.
Using criteria appropriate to each and considering their combined strength,
those major rating agencies continue to give the highest ratings to debt of both
GE and GE Capital.

                                 [CHART HERE]

GE WORKING CAPITAL TURNOVER
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          5.75        5.56        6.30        7.42      9.22
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   GE has committed to contribute capital to GE Capital in the event of either a
decrease below a specified level in the ratio of GE Capital's earnings to fixed
charges, or a failure to maintain a specified debt-to-equity ratio in the event
certain GE Capital preferred stock is redeemed. GE also has guaranteed
subordinated debt of GECS with a face amount of $1.0 billion at December 31,
1998 and 1997. Management believes the likelihood that GE will be required to
contribute capital under either the commitments or the guarantees is remote.

   GE total borrowings were $4.1 billion at year-end 1998 ($3.4 billion
short-term, $0.7 billion long-term), a decrease of $0.3 billion from year-end
1997. GE total debt at the end of 1998 equaled 9.5% of total capital, down from
11.1% at the end of 1997.

   GECS total borrowings were $172.2 billion at December 31, 1998, of which
$113.2 billion is due in 1999 and $59.0 billion is due in subsequent years.
Comparable amounts at the end of 1997 were $141.3 billion total, $95.3 billion
due within one year and $46.0 billion due thereafter. A large portion of GECS
borrowings ($87.0 billion and $71.2 billion at the end of 1998 and 1997,
respectively) was issued in active commercial paper markets that management
believes will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing. Most of
this commercial paper was issued by GE Capital. The average remaining terms and
interest rates of GE Capital commercial paper were 45 days and 5.35% at the end
of 1998, compared with 44 days and 5.83% at the end of 1997. The GE Capital
ratio of debt to equity was 7.86 to 1 at the end of 1998 and 7.45 to 1 at the
end of 1997.

     INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT is important in the normal
operations of both GE and GECS. The following discussion presents an overview of
such management. A related discussion of recent developments in the global
economy is provided on page 41.

   GE and GECS use various financial instruments, particularly interest rate and
currency swaps, but also futures, options and currency forwards, to manage their
respective interest rate and currency risks. GE and GECS are exclusively end
users of these instruments, which are commonly referred to as derivatives;
neither GE nor GECS engages in trading, market-making or other speculative
activities in the derivatives markets. Established practices require that
derivative financial instruments relate to specific asset, liability or equity
transactions or to currency exposures. More detailed information about these
financial instruments, as well as the strategies and policies for their use, is
provided in notes 1, 19 and 30.

     The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission requires that registrants
include information about potential effects of changes in interest rates and
currency exchange in their financial statements. Although the rules offer
alternatives for presenting this information, none of the alternatives is


 F-20
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 44
- ---------------------

without limitations. The following discussion is based on so-called "shock
tests," which model effects of interest rate and currency shifts on the
reporting company. Shock tests, while probably the most meaningful analysis
permitted, are constrained by several factors, including the necessity to
conduct the analysis based on a single point in time and by their inability to
include the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market
shifts modeled. While the following results of shock tests for interest rates
and currencies may have some limited use as benchmarks, they should not be
viewed as forecasts.

o    One means of assessing exposure to interest rate changes is a
     duration-based analysis that measures the potential loss in net earnings
     resulting from a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis
     points across all maturities (sometimes referred to as a "parallel shift in
     the yield curve"). Under this model, it is estimated that, all else
     constant, such an increase, including repricing effects in the securities
     portfolio, would reduce the 1999 net earnings of GECS based on year-end
     1998 positions by approximately $111 million; the pro forma effect for GE
     was approximately $17 million. Based on conditions at year-end 1997, the
     effect on 1998 net earnings of such an increase in interest rates was
     estimated to be approximately $112 million for GECS.

o    As shown in the chart above right, the geographic distribution of GE and
     GECS operations is diverse. One means of assessing exposure to changes in
     currency exchange rates is to model effects on reported earnings using a
     sensitivity analysis. Year-end 1998 consolidated currency exposures,
     including financial instruments designated and effective as hedges, were
     analyzed to identify GE and GECS assets and liabilities denominated in
     other than their relevant functional currency. Net unhedged exposures in
     each currency were then remeasured assuming a 10% decrease (substantially
     greater decreases for hyperinflationary currencies) in currency exchange
     rates compared with the U.S. dollar. Under this model, it is estimated
     that, all else constant, such a decrease would reduce the 1999 net earnings
     of GE based on year-end 1998 positions by approximately $11 million; the
     pro forma effect for GECS was insignificant. Based on conditions at
     year-end 1997, the effect on 1998 net earnings of such a decrease in
     exchange rates was estimated to be approximately $10 million for GE.

INSURANCE LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND ANNUITY BENEFITS were $77.3 billion, $10.0
billion higher than in 1997. The increase was primarily attributable to
acquisitions and the increase in separate accounts. For additional information
on these liabilities, see note 20.

                                 [CHART HERE]

CONSOLIDATED TOTAL ASSETS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
UNITED STATES         $142.527    $158.710    $189.427    $206.465   $227.112
INTERNATIONAL           43.344      69.325      82.975      97.547    128.823
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

YEAR 2000 will test the capability of business processes to function correctly.
GE and GECS have undertaken a global effort to identify and mitigate Year 2000
issues in their information systems, products, facilities and suppliers. Each
business has a Year 2000 leader who oversees a multifunctional remediation
project team responsible for applying a Six Sigma quality approach in four
phases: (1) DEFINE/MEASURE - identify and inventory possible sources of Year
2000 issues; (2) ANALYZE - determine the nature and extent of Year 2000 issues
and develop project plans to address those issues; (3) IMPROVE - execute project
plans and perform a majority of the testing; and (4) CONTROL - complete testing,
continue monitoring readiness and complete necessary contingency plans. The
progress of this program is monitored at each business, and Company-wide reviews
with senior management are conducted quarterly. The first three phases of the
program have been completed for a substantial majority of mission-critical
activities. Management plans to have nearly all significant information systems,
products and facilities through the control phase of the program by mid-1999.

   The scope of the global Year 2000 effort encompasses approximately 170,000
applications and computer programs; 8,000 types of installed-base products and
services; up to 35,000 pieces of equipment in facilities; and 30,000 direct
suppliers. Business operations are also affected by the Year 2000 readiness of
customers and infrastructure suppliers in areas such as utilities,
communications, transportation and other services. In this environment, there
will likely be instances of failure that could cause disruptions in business
processes for GE and GECS businesses, affect their customers' ability to repay
amounts owed or result in an increased level of insurance claims activity. The
likelihood and effects of failures in the customer base, infrastructure systems
and in the supply chain cannot be estimated. However, with respect to operations


 F-21
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 45
- ---------------------

under its direct control, management does not expect, in view of its Year 2000
program efforts and the diversity of its businesses, suppliers and customers,
that occurrences of Year 2000 failures will have a material adverse effect on
the financial position, results of operations or liquidity of GE or GECS.

   Including amounts attributable to recent acquisitions, total Year 2000
remediation expenditures are expected to be approximately $575 million, of which
60% was spent by the end of 1998. Substantially all of the remainder is expected
to be spent in 1999. Most of these costs are not likely to be incremental costs,
but rather will represent the redeployment of existing resources. The activities
involved in the Year 2000 effort necessarily involve estimates and projections
of activities and resources that will be required in the future. These estimates
and projections could change as work progresses.

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

Because cash management activities of GE and GECS are separate and distinct, it
is more useful to review their cash flows separately.

GE CASH AND EQUIVALENTS aggregated $1.2 billion at the end of 1998, about the
same as at year-end 1997. During 1998, GE generated a record $10.0 billion in
cash from operating activities, an increase of $0.7 billion over 1997. The
increase reflected improvements in earnings and working capital, including cash
from monetization of receivables. The 1998 cash generation provided most of the
resources needed to repurchase $3.6 billion of GE common stock under the share
repurchase program, to pay $3.9 billion in dividends to share owners, to invest
$2.0 billion in new plant and equipment and to make $1.5 billion in
acquisitions.

   Operating activities are the principal source of GE's cash flows. Over the
past three years, operating activities have provided more than $28 billion of
cash. The principal application of this cash was distributions of approximately
$21 billion to share owners, both through payment of dividends ($10.4 billion)
and through the share repurchase program ($10.4 billion) described below. Other
applications included investment in new plant and equipment ($6.6 billion) and
acquisitions ($4.0 billion).

   The GE Board of Directors has authorized repurchase of $17 billion of common
stock under the share repurchase program. This buyback will continue through the
year 2000 at an annual rate of about $2 billion. Funds used for the share
repurchase are expected to be generated largely from operating cash flow.

                                 [CHART HERE]

GE CUMULATIVE CASH FLOWS SINCE 1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH FLOWS FROM
   OPERATING
   ACTIVITIES           $6.071     $12.136     $21.203     $30.520   $40.552
SHARES REPURCHASED       1.073       4.175       7.441      10.933    14.579
DIVIDENDS PAID           2.462       5.232       8.282      11.693    15.606
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   Based on past performance and current expectations, in combination with the
financial flexibility that comes with a strong balance sheet and the highest
credit ratings, management believes that GE is in a sound position to complete
the share repurchase program, to grow dividends in line with earnings, and to
continue making selective investments for long-term growth. Expenditures for new
plant and equipment are expected to be about $2.0 billion in 1999, principally
for productivity and growth. The expected level of expenditures was moderated by
the Six Sigma quality program's success in freeing capacity.

GECS CASH AND EQUIVALENTS aggregated $3.3 billion at the end of 1998, down from
$4.9 billion at year-end 1997. One of the primary sources of cash for GECS is
financing activities involving the continued rollover of short-term borrowings
and appropriate addition of borrowings with a reasonable balance of maturities.
Over the past three years, GECS borrowings with maturities of 90 days or less
have increased by $40.9 billion. New borrowings of $85.2 billion having
maturities longer than 90 days were added during those years, while $78.4
billion of such longer-term borrowings were retired. GECS also generated $26.9
billion from continuing operating activities.

   The principal use of cash by GECS has been investing in assets to grow its
businesses. Of the $69.6 billion that GECS invested over the past three years,
$10.5 billion was used for additions to financing receivables; $18.5 billion was
used to invest in new equipment, principally for lease to others; and $25.4
billion was used for acquisitions of new businesses, the largest of which were
Metlife Capital and Lake in 1998.

     With the financial flexibility that comes with excellent credit ratings,
management believes that GECS should be well positioned to meet the global needs
of its customers for capital and to continue providing GE share owners with good
returns.


 F-22
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 46
- ---------------------

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA summarizes on the following page some data frequently
requested about General Electric Company. The data are divided into three
sections: upper portion -- consolidated data; middle portion -- GE data that
reflect various conventional measurements for such enterprises; and lower
portion -- GECS data that reflect key information pertinent to financial
services businesses.

GE'S TOTAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT expenditures were $1,930 million in 1998, up
slightly from 1997 and 1996. In 1998, expenditures from GE's own funds were
$1,537 million, an increase of 4% over 1997, reflecting continuing research and
development work related to new product, service and process technologies.
Product technology efforts in 1998 included continuing development work on the
next generation of gas turbines, further advances in state-of-the-art diagnostic
imaging technologies, and development of more fuel-efficient, cost-effective
aircraft engine designs. Services technologies include advances in diagnostic
applications, including remote diagnostic capabilities related to repair and
maintenance of medical equipment, aircraft engines, power generation equipment
and locomotives. Process technologies -- vital to Six Sigma quality programs --
provided improved product quality and performance and increased capacity for
manufacturing engineered materials. Expenditures from funds provided by
customers (mainly the U.S. government) were $393 million in 1998, down $18
million from 1997.

GE'S TOTAL BACKLOG of firm unfilled orders at the end of 1998 was $28.5 billion,
compared with $26.4 billion at the end of 1997. Of the total, $23.9 billion
related to products, about 56% of which was scheduled for delivery in 1999.
Services orders are included in this reported backlog for only the succeeding 12
months; such backlog at the end of 1998 was $4.6 billion. Orders constituting
this backlog may be canceled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases
to cancellation penalties. See Segment Operations beginning on page 35 for
further discussion on unfilled orders of relatively long-cycle manufacturing
businesses.


REGARDING ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS, GE's operations, like operations of other
companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup
of substances regulated under environmental protection laws.

   In 1998, GE expended about $81 million for capital projects related to the
environment. The comparable amount in 1997 was $80 million. These amounts
exclude expenditures for remediation actions, which are principally expensed and
are discussed below. Capital expenditures for environmental purposes have
included pollution control devices -- such as wastewater treatment plants,
groundwater monitoring devices, air strippers or separators, and incinerators --
at new and existing facilities constructed or upgraded in the normal course of
business. Consistent with policies stressing environmental responsibility,
average annual capital expenditures other than for remediation projects are
presently expected to be about $85 million over the next two years. This level
is in line with existing levels for new or expanded programs to build facilities
or modify manufacturing processes to minimize waste and reduce emissions.

     GE also is involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up
hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require
that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality
of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site
remediation actions amounted to approximately $127 million in 1998, compared
with $84 million in 1997. It is presently expected that such remediation actions
will require average annual expenditures in the range of $90 million to $170
million over the next two years.

                                 [CHART HERE]
YEAR-END MARKET CAPITALIZATION
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN BILLIONS)             1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       $87.004    $119.989    $162.604    $239.539  $333.762
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                 [CHART HERE]
GE SHARE PRICE ACTIVITY
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(IN DOLLARS)              1994        1995        1996        1997      1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
HIGH                  $27 7/16    $36 9/16    $53 1/16    $76 9/16  $103 15/16
LOW                    22 1/2      24 1/2      34 3/4      47 15/16   69 
CLOSE                  25 1/2      36          49 7/16     73 3/8    102
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 F-23
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 47
- ---------------------




 F-24
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 48
- ---------------------

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

CONSOLIDATION. The consolidated financial statements represent the adding
together of all affiliates -- companies that General Electric directly or
indirectly controls. Results of associated companies -- generally companies that
are 20% to 50% owned and over which GE, directly or indirectly, has significant
influence -- are included in the financial statements on a "one-line" basis.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION. Financial data and related measurements are
presented in the following categories.

o    GE. This represents the adding together of all affiliates other than
     General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS), whose operations are
     presented on a one-line basis.

o    GECS. This affiliate owns all of the common stock of General Electric
     Capital Corporation (GE Capital) and GE Global Insurance Holding
     Corporation (GE Global Insurance). GE Capital, GE Global Insurance and
     their respective affiliates are consolidated in the GECS columns and
     constitute its business.

o    CONSOLIDATED. This represents the adding together of GE and GECS.

The effects of transactions among related companies within and between each of
the above-mentioned groups are eliminated. Transactions between GE and GECS are
not material.

   Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1998
presentation.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

SALES OF GOODS AND SERVICES. A sale is recorded when title passes to the
customer or when services are performed in accordance with contracts.

GECS REVENUES FROM SERVICES (EARNED INCOME). Income on all loans is recognized
on the interest method. Accrual of interest income is suspended at the earlier
of the time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or the account
becomes 90 days delinquent. Interest income on impaired loans is recognized
either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as conditions warrant.

   Financing lease income is recorded on the interest method so as to produce a
level yield on funds not yet recovered. Estimated unguaranteed residual values
of leased assets are based primarily on periodic independent appraisals of the
values of leased assets remaining at expiration of the lease terms.

   Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms
of underlying leases.

   Origination, commitment and other nonrefundable fees related to fundings are
deferred and recorded in earned income on the interest method. Commitment fees
related to loans not expected to be funded and line-of-credit fees are deferred
and recorded in earned income on a straight-line basis over the period to which
the fees relate. Syndication fees are recorded in earned income at the time
related services are performed unless significant contingencies exist.

   Premium income from insurance activities is discussed under GECS insurance
accounting policies on page 49.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION. The cost of most of GE's manufacturing plant and
equipment is depreciated using an accelerated method based primarily on a
sum-of-the-years digits formula.

   The cost of GECS equipment leased to others on operating leases is amortized,
principally on a straight-line basis, to estimated residual value over the lease
term or over the estimated economic life of the equipment. Depreciation of
property and equipment used by GECS is recorded on either a sum-of-the-years
digits formula or a straight-line basis over the lives of the assets.

RECOGNITION OF LOSSES ON FINANCING RECEIVABLES AND INVESTMENTS. The allowance
for losses on small-balance receivables is determined principally on the basis
of actual experience during the preceding three years. Further allowances are
provided to reflect management's judgment of additional probable losses. For
other receivables, principally the larger loans and leases, the allowance for
losses is determined primarily on the basis of management's judgment of net
probable losses, including specific allowances for known troubled accounts.

     All accounts or portions thereof deemed to be uncollectible or to require
an excessive collection cost are written off to the allowance for losses.
Small-balance accounts generally are written off when 6 to 12 months delinquent,
although any such balance judged to be uncollectible, such as an account in
bankruptcy, is written down immediately to estimated realizable value.
Large-balance accounts are reviewed at least quarterly, and those accounts with
amounts that are judged to be uncollectible are written down to estimated
realizable value.

   When collateral is repossessed in satisfaction of a loan, the receivable is
written down against the allowance for losses to estimated fair value of the
asset less costs to sell, transferred to other assets and subsequently carried
at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. This accounting
method has been employed principally for specialized financing transactions.


 F-25
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 49
- ---------------------

CASH AND EQUIVALENTS. Debt securities with original maturities of three months
or less are included in cash equivalents unless designated as available for sale
and classified as investment securities.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES. Investments in debt and marketable equity securities are
reported at fair value. Substantially all investment securities are designated
as available for sale, with unrealized gains and losses included in share
owners' equity, net of applicable taxes and other adjustments. Unrealized losses
that are other than temporary are recognized in earnings. Realized gains and
losses are accounted for on the specific identification method.

INVENTORIES. All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or realizable
values. Cost for virtually all of GE's U.S. inventories is determined on a
last-in, first-out (LIFO) basis. Cost of other GE inventories is primarily
determined on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.

   GECS inventories consist primarily of finished products held for sale. Cost
is primarily determined on a FIFO basis.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS. Goodwill is amortized over its estimated period of benefit on
a straight-line basis; other intangible assets, including internal-use software,
are amortized on appropriate bases over their estimated lives. No amortization
period exceeds 40 years. Goodwill in excess of associated expected operating
cash flows is considered to be impaired and is written down to fair value, which
is determined based on either discounted future cash flows or appraised values,
depending on the nature of the asset.

INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT. As a matter of policy, neither GE
nor GECS engages in derivatives trading, derivatives market-making or other
speculative activities.

     GE and GECS use swaps primarily to optimize funding costs. To a lesser
degree, and in combination with options and limit contracts, GECS uses swaps to
stabilize cash flows from mortgage-related assets.

   Interest rate and currency swaps that modify borrowings or designated assets,
including swaps associated with forecasted commercial paper renewals, are
accounted for on an accrual basis. Both GE and GECS require all other swaps, as
well as futures, options and currency forwards, to be designated and accounted
for as hedges of specific assets, liabilities or committed transactions;
resulting payments and receipts are recognized contemporaneously with effects of
hedged transactions. A payment or receipt arising from early termination of an
effective hedge is accounted for as an adjustment to the basis of the hedged
transaction.

   Instruments used as hedges must be effective at reducing the risk associated
with the exposure being hedged and must be designated as a hedge at the
inception of the contract. Accordingly, changes in market values of hedge
instruments must be highly correlated with changes in market values of
underlying hedged items, both at inception of the hedge and over the life of the
hedge contract.

   As a matter of policy, any derivative that is either not designated as a
hedge, or is so designated but is ineffective, is marked to market and
recognized in operations immediately.

GECS INSURANCE ACCOUNTING POLICIES. Accounting policies for GECS insurance
businesses follow.

PREMIUM INCOME. Insurance premiums are reported as earned income as follows:

o    For short-duration insurance contracts (including property and casualty,
     accident and health, and financial guaranty insurance), premiums are
     reported as earned income, generally on a pro rata basis, over the terms of
     the related agreements. For retrospectively rated reinsurance contracts,
     premium adjustments are recorded based on estimated losses and loss
     expenses, taking into consideration both case and incurred-but-not-reported
     reserves.

o    For traditional long-duration insurance contracts (including term and whole
     life contracts and annuities payable for the life of the annuitant),
     premiums are reported as earned income when due.

o    For investment contracts and universal life contracts, premiums received
     are reported as liabilities, not as revenues. Universal life contracts are
     long-duration insurance contracts with terms that are not fixed and
     guaranteed; for these contracts, revenues are recognized for assessments
     against the policyholder's account, mostly for mortality, contract
     initiation, administration and surrender. Investment contracts are
     contracts that have neither significant mortality nor significant morbidity
     risk, including annuities payable for a determined period; for these
     contracts, revenues are recognized on the associated investments and
     amounts credited to policyholder accounts are charged to expense.

DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS. Costs that vary with and are primarily
related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance and investment contracts
are deferred and amortized over the respective policy terms. For short-duration
insurance contracts, acquisition costs consist primarily of commissions,


 F-26
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 50
- ---------------------

brokerage expenses and premium taxes. For long-duration insurance contracts,
these costs consist primarily of first-year commissions in excess of recurring
renewal commissions, certain variable sales expenses and certain support costs
such as underwriting and policy issue expenses.

o    For short-duration insurance contracts, these costs are amortized pro rata
     over the contract periods in which the related premiums are earned.

o    For traditional long-duration insurance contracts, these costs are
     amortized over the respective contract periods in proportion to either
     anticipated premium income or, in the case of limited-payment contracts,
     estimated benefit payments.

o    For investment contracts and universal life contracts, these costs are
     amortized on the basis of anticipated gross profits.

Periodically, deferred policy acquisition costs are reviewed for recoverability;
anticipated investment income is considered in recoverability evaluations.

PRESENT VALUE OF FUTURE PROFITS. The actuarially determined present value of
anticipated net cash flows to be realized from insurance, annuity and investment
contracts in force at the date of acquisition of life insurance enterprises is
recorded as the present value of future profits and is amortized over the
respective policy terms in a manner similar to deferred policy acquisition
costs. Unamortized balances are adjusted to reflect experience and impairment,
if any.

2    GE OTHER INCOME

                                            ------------------------------------
(In millions)                                  1998           1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Residual licensing and
   royalty income
     RCA Licensing                          $   250        $   287       $   265
     Other                                       51             54            60
Associated companies                             (9)            50            50
Marketable securities and
   bank deposits                                114             78            72
Customer financing                               19             26            29
Other investments
   Dividends                                      8             62            79
   Interest                                       8              1            18
Other items                                     243          1,749            56
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            $   684        $ 2,307       $   629
================================================================================
   Effective January 1, 1999, GE transferred certain licenses and intellectual
property pursuant to an agreement to sell the former RCA Consumer Electronics
business. Licensing income from these assets is shown under the caption "RCA
Licensing" in the table above.

   Included in the "Other items" caption for 1997 is a gain of $1,538 million
related to a tax-free exchange between GE and Lockheed Martin Corporation
(Lockheed Martin). In exchange for its investment in Lockheed Martin Series A
preferred stock, GE acquired a Lockheed Martin subsidiary containing two
businesses, an equity interest and cash to the extent necessary to equalize the
value of the exchange, a portion of which was subsequently loaned to Lockheed
Martin.

3    GECS REVENUES FROM SERVICES

                                             -----------------------------------
(In millions)                                   1998          1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Time sales, loan and
  other income                               $14,682       $12,211       $11,310
Operating lease rentals                        5,402         4,819         4,341
Financing leases                               4,267         3,499         3,485
Investment income                              5,617         5,512         3,506
Premium and commission
  income of insurance
  businesses                                  11,352         9,268         8,145
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             $41,320       $35,309       $30,787
================================================================================

   For insurance businesses, the effects of reinsurance on premiums written and
premium and commission income were as follows:

                                         ---------------------------------------
(In millions)                                1998           1997           1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PREMIUMS WRITTEN
Direct                                   $  6,237        $ 5,206        $ 3,926
Assumed                                     7,470          5,501          5,455
Ceded                                      (1,842)        (1,311)        (1,196)
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         $ 11,865        $ 9,396        $ 8,185
                                         =======================================
PREMIUM AND COMMISSION
  INCOME
Direct                                   $  6,063        $ 5,138        $ 3,850
Assumed                                     7,151          5,386          5,353
Ceded                                      (1,862)        (1,256)        (1,058)
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         $ 11,352        $ 9,268        $ 8,145
================================================================================
   Reinsurance recoveries recognized as a reduction of insurance losses and
policyholder and annuity benefits amounted to $1,594 million, $903 million and
$937 million for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.


 F-27
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 51
- ---------------------

4    SUPPLEMENTAL COST DETAILS

Total expenditures for research and development were $1,930 million, $1,891
million and $1,886 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The
Company-funded portion aggregated $1,537 million in 1998, $1,480 million in 1997
and $1,421 million in 1996.

   Rental expense under operating leases is shown below.

                                              ----------------------------------
(In millions)                                 1998           1997           1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE                                            $568           $536           $512
GECS                                           889            734            547
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     At December 31, 1998, minimum rental commitments under noncancelable
operating leases aggregated $2,479 million and $5,168 million for GE and GECS,
respectively. Amounts payable over the next five years follow.

                                ------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                   1999       2000       2001       2002       2003
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE                              $453       $375       $296       $223       $187
GECS                             720        636        582        519        468
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   GE's selling, general and administrative expense totaled $7,177 million in
1998, $7,476 million in 1997 and $6,274 million in 1996. Insignificant amounts
of interest were capitalized by GE and GECS in 1998, 1997 and 1996.

5    PENSION BENEFITS

GE and its affiliates sponsor a number of pension plans. Principal pension plans
are discussed below; other pension plans are not significant individually or in
the aggregate.

PRINCIPAL PENSION PLANS are the GE Pension Plan and the GE Supplementary Pension
Plan.

   The GE Pension Plan covers substantially all GE employees in the United
States as well as approximately two-thirds of GECS employees in the United
States. Generally, benefits are based on the greater of a formula recognizing
career earnings or a formula recognizing length of service and final average
earnings. Benefit provisions are subject to collective bargaining. At the end of
1998, the GE Pension Plan covered approximately 466,000 participants, including
127,000 employees, 149,000 former employees with vested rights to future
benefits, and 190,000 retirees and beneficiaries receiving benefits.

   The GE Supplementary Pension Plan is a pay-as-you-go plan providing
supplementary retirement benefits primarily to higher-level, longer-service U.S.
employees.

   The effect on operations of principal pension plans is as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EFFECT ON OPERATIONS
                                                --------------------------------
(In millions)                                      1998        1997        1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Expected return on plan assets                  $ 3,024     $ 2,721     $ 2,587
Service cost for benefits earned (a)               (625)       (596)       (550)
Interest cost on benefit obligation              (1,749)     (1,686)     (1,593)
Prior service cost                                 (153)       (145)        (99)
SFAS No. 87 transition gain                         154         154         154
Net actuarial gain recognized                       365         295         210
Special early retirement cost                        --        (412)         --
                                                --------------------------------
Total pension plan income                       $ 1,016     $   331     $   709
================================================================================
(a) Net of participant contributions.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FUNDING POLICY for the GE Pension Plan is to contribute amounts sufficient to
meet minimum funding requirements as set forth in employee benefit and tax laws
plus such additional amounts as GE may determine to be appropriate. GE has not
made contributions since 1987 because the fully funded status of the GE Pension
Plan precludes current tax deduction and because any GE contribution would
require payment of annual excise taxes.

     Changes in the projected benefit obligation for principal pension plans
follow.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION
                                                       -------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                  1998            1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at January 1                                   $ 25,874        $ 23,251
Service cost for benefits earned (a)                        625             596
Interest cost on benefit obligation                       1,749           1,686
Participant contributions                                   112             120
Plan amendments                                              --             136
Actuarial loss                                            1,050           1,388
Benefits paid                                            (1,838)         (1,715)
Special early retirement cost                                --             412
                                                       -------------------------
Balance at December 31                                 $ 27,572        $ 25,874
================================================================================
(a) Net of participant contributions.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Changes in the fair value of assets for principal pension plans follow.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS
                                                     ---------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                1998              1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at January 1                                 $ 38,742          $ 33,686
Actual return on plan assets                            6,363             6,587
Employer contributions                                     68                64
Participant contributions                                 112               120
Benefits paid                                          (1,838)           (1,715)
                                                     ---------------------------
Balance at December 31                               $ 43,447          $ 38,742
================================================================================
   Plan assets are held in trust and consist mainly of common stock and
fixed-income investments. GE common stock represented about 7% and 6% of trust
assets at year-end 1998 and 1997, respectively.


 F-28
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 52
- ---------------------

   GE recorded assets and liabilities for principal pension plans as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PREPAID PENSION ASSET
                                                     ---------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                  1998            1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value of plan assets                              $ 43,447        $ 38,742
Add (deduct) unrecognized balances
   SFAS No. 87 transition gain                             (308)           (462)
   Net actuarial gain                                    (9,462)         (7,538)
   Prior service cost                                       850           1,003
Projected benefit obligation                            (27,572)        (25,874)
Pension liability                                           797             703
                                                     ---------------------------
Prepaid pension asset                                  $  7,752        $  6,574
================================================================================
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS used to determine costs and benefit obligations for
principal pension plans follow.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS

                                                 -------------------------------
December 31                                      1998         1997         1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                                     6.75%        7.0%         7.5%
Compensation increases                            5.0          4.5          4.5
Return on assets for the year                     9.5          9.5          9.5
================================================================================
   Experience gains and losses, as well as the effects of changes in actuarial
assumptions and plan provisions, are amortized over the average future service
period of employees.

6    RETIREE HEALTH AND LIFE BENEFITS

GE and its affiliates sponsor a number of retiree health and life insurance
benefit plans. Principal retiree benefit plans are discussed below; other such
plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate.

PRINCIPAL RETIREE BENEFIT PLANS generally provide health and life insurance
benefits to employees who retire under the GE Pension Plan (see note 5) with 10
or more years of service. Retirees share in the cost of health care benefits.
Benefit provisions are subject to collective bargaining. At the end of 1998,
these plans covered approximately 250,000 retirees and dependents.

   The effect on operations of principal retiree benefit plans is shown in the
following table.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EFFECT ON OPERATIONS
                                                  ------------------------------
(In millions)                                      1998        1997        1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RETIREE HEALTH PLANS
Service cost for benefits earned                  $  79       $  90       $  77
Interest cost on benefit obligation                 205         183         166
Prior service cost                                   14          (3)        (20)
Net actuarial loss recognized                        28          16          20
Special early retirement cost                        --         152          --
                                                  ------------------------------
Retiree health plan cost                            326         438         243
                                                  ------------------------------
RETIREE LIFE PLANS
Expected return on plan assets                     (149)       (137)       (132)
Service cost for benefits earned                     17          17          16
Interest cost on benefit obligation                 114         116         106
Prior service cost                                   (6)         (8)        (11)
Net actuarial loss recognized                        11          16          23
Special early retirement cost                        --          13          --
                                                  ------------------------------
Retiree life plan cost (income)                     (13)         17           2
                                                  ------------------------------
Total cost                                        $ 313       $ 455       $ 245
================================================================================
FUNDING POLICY for retiree health benefits is generally to pay covered expenses
as they are incurred. GE funds retiree life insurance benefits at its
discretion.

   Changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for retiree
benefit plans follow.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACCUMULATED POSTRETIREMENT
BENEFIT OBLIGATION                       Health plans             Life plans
                                    --------------------    --------------------
December 31 (In millions)              1998        1997        1998        1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at January 1                $ 3,098     $ 2,415     $ 1,677     $ 1,539
Service cost for
   benefits earned                       79          90          17          17
Interest cost on
   benefit obligation                   205         183         114         116
Participant
   contributions                         24          21          --          --
Plan amendments                          --         325          --          44
Actuarial loss                          177         245          91          56
Benefits paid                          (363)       (333)       (112)       (108)
Special early
   retirement cost                       --         152          --          13
                                    --------------------    --------------------
Balance at
   December 31                      $ 3,220     $ 3,098     $ 1,787     $ 1,677
================================================================================
   Changes in the fair value of assets for retiree benefit plans follow.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FAIR VALUE OF ASSETS                     Health plans             Life plans
                                    --------------------    --------------------
December 31 (In millions)              1998        1997        1998        1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at January 1                $    --     $    --     $ 1,917     $ 1,682
Actual return on plan
   assets                                --          --         316         343
Employer
   contributions                        339         312          --          --
Participant
   contributions                         24          21          --          --
Benefits paid                          (363)       (333)       (112)       (108)
                                    --------------------    --------------------
Balanace at
   December 31                      $    --     $    --     $ 2,121     $ 1,917
================================================================================


 F-29
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 53
- ---------------------

   Plan assets are held in trust and consist mainly of common stock and
fixed-income investments. GE common stock represented about 5% and 4% of trust
assets at year-end 1998 and 1997, respectively.

   GE recorded assets and liabilities for retiree benefit plans as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RETIREE BENEFIT LIABILITY/ASSET         Health plans              Life plans
                                    --------------------    --------------------
December 31 (In millions)              1998        1997        1998        1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Accumulated
   postretirement
   benefit obligation               $ 3,220     $ 3,098     $ 1,787     $ 1,677
Add (deduct)
   unrecognized
   balances
     Net actuarial
       gain/(loss)                     (572)       (423)        214         127
     Prior service cost                (157)       (171)         49          55
Fair value of
   plan assets                           --          --      (2,121)     (1,917)
                                    --------------------    --------------------
Retiree benefit liability/
   (asset)                          $ 2,491     $ 2,504     $   (71)    $   (58)
================================================================================
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS used to determine costs and benefit obligations for
principal retiree benefit plans are shown below.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS
                                                 -------------------------------
December 31                                      1998         1997         1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discount rate                                    6.75%         7.0%         7.5%
Compensation increases                            5.0          4.5          4.5
Health care cost trend (a)                        7.8          7.8          8.0
Return on assets for the year                     9.5          9.5          9.5
================================================================================
(a) For 1998, gradually declining to 5.0% after 2003.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Increasing or decreasing the health care cost trend rates by one percentage
point would not have had a material effect on the December 31, 1998, accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation or the annual cost of retiree health plans.

   Experience gains and losses, as well as the effects of changes in actuarial
assumptions and plan provisions, are amortized over the average future service
period of employees.

7    GECS ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON FINANCING RECEIVABLES

                                              ----------------------------------
(In millions)                                    1998         1997         1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Balance at January 1                          $ 2,802      $ 2,693      $ 2,519
Provisions charged to operations                1,609        1,421        1,033
Net transfers primarily related to
   companies acquired or sold                     388          127          139
Amounts written off-- net                      (1,511)      (1,439)        (998)
                                              ----------------------------------
Balance at December 31                        $ 3,288      $ 2,802      $ 2,693
================================================================================

8    PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

                                              ----------------------------------
(In millions)                                    1998         1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE
Estimated amounts payable                     $ 2,227      $ 2,332       $ 2,235
Deferred tax expense (benefit)
   from temporary differences                     590         (522)           60
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                2,817        1,810         2,295
                                              ----------------------------------
GECS
Estimated amounts payable                         815          368           164
Deferred tax expense from
   temporary differences                          549          798         1,067
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                1,364        1,166         1,231
                                              ----------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED
Estimated amounts payable                       3,042        2,700         2,399
Deferred tax expense from
   temporary differences                        1,139          276         1,127
                                              ----------------------------------
                                              $ 4,181      $ 2,976       $ 3,526
================================================================================
   GE includes GECS in filing a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. The
GECS provision for estimated taxes payable includes its effect on the
consolidated return.

   Estimated consolidated amounts payable includes amounts applicable to U.S.
federal income taxes of $1,459 million, $1,176 million and $971 million in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively, and amounts applicable to non-U.S. jurisdictions of
$1,335 million, $1,298 million and $1,204 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Deferred tax expense related to U.S. federal income taxes was $971
million, $354 million and $1,081 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

   Deferred income tax balances reflect the impact of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and
are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually
paid or recovered. See note 22 for details.

   Except for certain earnings that GE intends to reinvest indefinitely,
provision has been made for the estimated U.S. federal income tax liabilities
applicable to undistributed earnings of affiliates and associated companies. It
is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability, if any,
that would be payable if such earnings were not reinvested indefinitely.

   Consolidated U.S. income before taxes was $9.7 billion in 1998, $8.2 billion
in 1997 and $8.0 billion in 1996. The corresponding amounts for non-U.S.-based
operations were $3.8 billion in 1998, $3.0 billion in 1997 and $2.8 billion in
1996.

   A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the actual tax
rate is provided on the following page.


 F-30
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 54
- ---------------------




9    Earnings Per Share Information





 F-31
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 55
- ---------------------

10   INVESTMENT SECURITIES

                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                                 Gross        Gross
                                 Amortized  unrealized   unrealized    Estimated
(In millions)                         cost       gains       losses   fair value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DECEMBER 31, 1998
GE
Equity securities                 $    233    $     26     $     --     $    259
                                  ----------------------------------------------
GECS
Debt securities
   U.S. corporate                   27,888       1,293         (325)      28,856
   State and municipal              12,483         727           (8)      13,202
   Mortgage-backed                  11,641         413         (109)      11,945
   Corporate-- non-U.S               8,692         409          (90)       9,011
   Government
    -- non-U.S                       5,415         258           (9)       5,664
   U.S. government and
     federal agency                  2,706         207           (7)       2,906
Equity securities                    5,651       1,415         (192)       6,874
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                    74,476       4,722         (740)      78,458
                                  ----------------------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED TOTALS               $ 74,709    $  4,748     $   (740)    $ 78,717
================================================================================
DECEMBER 31, 1997
GE
Equity securities                 $    257    $     13     $     (5)    $    265
                                  ----------------------------------------------
GECS
Debt securities
   U.S. corporate                   24,580       1,028          (53)      25,555
   State and municipal              10,780         636           (2)      11,414
   Mortgage-backed                  12,074         341          (30)      12,385
   Corporate-- non-U.S               7,683         310          (12)       7,981
   Government
    -- non-U.S                       3,714         150           (3)       3,861
   U.S. government and
     federal agency                  2,413         103           (4)       2,512
Equity securities                    5,414       1,336         (102)       6,648
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                    66,658       3,904         (206)      70,356
                                  ----------------------------------------------
CONSOLIDATED TOTALS               $ 66,915    $  3,917     $   (211)    $ 70,621
================================================================================
     The majority of mortgage-backed securities shown in the table above are
collateralized by U.S. residential mortgages.

   At December 31, 1998, contractual maturities of debt securities, other than
mortgage-backed securities, were as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES OF DEBT SECURITIES
(EXCLUDING MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES)
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    Amortized          Estimated
(In millions)                                            cost         fair value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Due in
   1999                                               $ 5,370            $ 5,574
   2000-2003                                           14,145             14,497
   2004-2008                                           13,068             13,538
   2009 and later                                      24,601             26,030
================================================================================
   It is expected that actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities
because borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations. Proceeds
from sales of investment securities by GE and GECS in 1998 were $16,707 million
($14,728 million in 1997 and $11,868 million in 1996). Gross realized gains were
$1,126 million in 1998 ($1,018 million in 1997 and $638 million in 1996). Gross
realized losses were $308 million in 1998 ($173 million in 1997 and $190 million
in 1996).

11   GE CURRENT RECEIVABLES

                                                       -------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                 1998             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aircraft Engines                                       $ 1,722          $ 2,118
Appliances                                                 299              300
Industrial Products and Systems                          1,274            1,645
NBC                                                        261              362
Plastics                                                 1,070            1,037
Power Systems                                            2,620            2,376
Technical Products and Services                            904              786
All Other                                                  141              130
Corporate                                                  495              538
                                                       -------------------------
                                                         8,786            9,292
Less allowance for losses                                 (303)            (238)
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       $ 8,483          $ 9,054
================================================================================
   Receivables balances at December 31, 1998 and 1997, before allowance for
losses, included $5,447 million and $6,125 million, respectively, from sales of
goods and services to customers, and $350 million and $285 million,
respectively, from transactions with associated companies.

   Current receivables of $305 million at year-end 1998 and $303 million at
year-end 1997 arose from sales, principally of aircraft engine goods and
services, on open account to various agencies of the U.S. government, which is
GE's largest single customer. About 4% of GE's sales of goods and services were
to the U.S. government in 1998 and 1997, compared with about 5% in 1996.

12   INVENTORIES

                                                       -------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                  1998            1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE
Raw materials and work in process                       $ 3,154         $ 3,070
Finished goods                                            2,967           2,895
Unbilled shipments                                          195             242
                                                       -------------------------
                                                          6,316           6,207
Less revaluation to LIFO                                 (1,011)         (1,098)
                                                       -------------------------
                                                          5,305           5,109
                                                       -------------------------
GECS
Finished goods                                              744             786
                                                       -------------------------
                                                        $ 6,049         $ 5,895
================================================================================
   LIFO revaluations decreased $87 million in 1998, compared with decreases of
$119 million in 1997 and $128 million in 1996. Included in these changes were
decreases of $29 million, $59 million and $58 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively, that resulted from lower LIFO inventory levels. There were net
cost decreases in each of the last three years. As of December 31, 1998, GE is
obligated to acquire certain raw materials at market prices through the year
2008 under various take-or-pay or similar arrangements. Annual minimum
commitments under these arrangements are insignificant.



 F-32
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 56
- ---------------------

13   GECS FINANCING RECEIVABLES (INVESTMENTS IN TIME SALES, LOANS AND FINANCING
     LEASES)
                                                     ---------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                 1998             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TIME SALES AND LOANS
Consumer services                                    $  44,680        $  42,270
Mid-market financing                                    20,240           11,401
Specialized financing                                   16,811           13,974
Equipment management                                     1,066              469
Specialty insurance                                        103              202
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                        82,900           68,316
Deferred income                                         (5,617)          (3,484)
                                                     ---------------------------
   Time sales and loans-- net                           77,283           64,832
                                                     ---------------------------
INVESTMENT IN FINANCING LEASES
Direct financing leases                                 43,730           38,616
Leveraged leases                                         3,841            3,153
                                                     ---------------------------
   Investment in financing leases                       47,571           41,769
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                       124,854          106,601
Less allowance for losses                               (3,288)          (2,802)
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     $ 121,566        $ 103,799
================================================================================
   Time sales and loans represents transactions in a variety of forms, including
time sales, revolving charge and credit, mortgages, installment loans,
intermediate-term loans and revolving loans secured by business assets. The
portfolio includes time sales and loans carried at the principal amount on which
finance charges are billed periodically, and time sales and loans carried at
gross book value, which includes finance charges. At year-end 1998 and 1997,
specialized financing and consumer services loans included $12,980 million and
$10,503 million, respectively, for commercial real estate loans. Note 17
contains information on airline loans and leases.

   At December 31, 1998, contractual maturities for time sales and loans were
$31,014 million in 1999; $14,865 million in 2000; $9,448 million in 2001; $6,675
million in 2002; $5,465 million in 2003; and $15,433 million thereafter --
aggregating $82,900 million. Experience has shown that a substantial portion of
receivables will be paid prior to contractual maturity. Accordingly, the
maturities of time sales and loans are not to be regarded as forecasts of future
cash collections.

   Investment in financing leases consists of direct financing and leveraged
leases of aircraft, railroad rolling stock, autos, other transportation
equipment, data processing equipment and medical equipment, as well as other
manufacturing, power generation, commercial real estate, and commercial
equipment and facilities.

   As the sole owner of assets under direct financing leases and as the equity
participant in leveraged leases, GECS is taxed on total lease payments received
and is entitled to tax deductions based on the cost of leased assets and tax
deductions for interest paid to third-party participants. GECS generally is
entitled to any residual value of leased assets.

   Investment in direct financing and leveraged leases represents net unpaid
rentals and estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased equipment, less
related deferred income. GECS has no general obligation for principal and
interest on notes and other instruments representing third-party participation
related to leveraged leases; such notes and other instruments have not been
included in liabilities but have been offset against the related rentals
receivable. The GECS share of rentals receivable on leveraged leases is
subordinate to the share of other participants who also have security interests
in the leased equipment.

   At December 31, 1998, contractual maturities for net rentals receivable under
financing leases were $14,093 million in 1999; $12,087 million in 2000; $8,947
million in 2001; $4,362 million in 2002; $2,759 million in 2003; and $9,104
million thereafter -- aggregating $51,352 million. As with time sales and loans,
experience has shown that a portion of these receivables will be paid prior to
contractual maturity, and these amounts should not be regarded as forecasts of
future cash flows.




 F-33
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 57
- ---------------------

   GECS has a noncontrolling interest in Montgomery Ward Holding Corp. (MWHC)
which, together with certain of its affiliates, filed a bankruptcy petition for
reorganization in 1997. Loans to MWHC, which are considered impaired (as defined
below), were $578 million and $617 million at year-end 1998 and 1997,
respectively. These amounts are excluded from the nonearning and reduced-earning
receivable and impaired loan discussions below. GECS also provides revolving
credit card financing directly to customers of MWHC and affiliates; such
receivables totaled $3.4 billion at December 31, 1998, including $1.6 billion
that had been sold with recourse. The obligations of customers with respect to
these receivables are not affected by the bankruptcy filing.

   Nonearning consumer receivables were $1,250 million and $1,049 million at
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, a substantial amount of which were
private-label credit card loans subject to various loss-sharing agreements that
provide full or partial recourse to the originating retailer. Nonearning and
reduced-earning receivables other than consumer receivables were $354 million
and $353 million at year-end 1998 and 1997, respectively.

   "Impaired" loans are defined by generally accepted accounting principles as
loans for which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all
amounts due according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement. That
definition excludes, among other things, leases or large groups of
smaller-balance homogenous loans and therefore applies principally to commercial
loans held by GECS. An analysis of impaired loans follows.

                                                                ----------------
December 31 (In millions)                                       1998        1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Loans requiring allowance for losses                            $346        $339
Loans expected to be fully recoverable                           158         167
                                                                ----------------
                                                                $504        $506
                                                                ----------------
Allowance for losses                                            $109        $170
Average investment during year                                   512         647
Interest income earned while impaired (a)                         39          32
================================================================================
(a) Principally on the cash basis.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14   OTHER GECS RECEIVABLES

At year-end 1998 and 1997, this account included reinsurance recoverables of
$6,124 million and $5,027 million and insurance-related receivables of $7,109
million and $4,932 million, respectively. Premium receivables, funds on deposit
with reinsurers and policy loans are included in insurance-related receivables.
Also in "Other GECS receivables" are trade receivables, accrued investment
income, operating lease receivables and a variety of sundry items.

15   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (INCLUDING EQUIPMENT LEASED TO OTHERS)

                                                          ----------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                    1998           1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ORIGINAL COST
   GE
   Land and improvements                                  $   459        $   459
   Buildings, structures and related
     equipment                                              6,579          6,375
   Machinery and equipment                                 19,491         18,376
   Leasehold costs and manufacturing
     plant under construction                               1,757          1,621
   Other                                                       24             24
                                                          ----------------------
                                                           28,310         26,855
                                                          ----------------------
   GECS
   Buildings and equipment                                  4,828          3,987
   Equipment leased to others
     Vehicles                                               9,825          9,144
     Aircraft                                               9,321          7,686
     Railroad rolling stock                                 2,804          2,367
     Marine shipping containers                             2,565          2,774
     Other                                                  3,447          2,844
                                                          ----------------------
                                                           32,790         28,802
                                                          ----------------------
                                                          $61,100        $55,657
                                                          ======================
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
   AND AMORTIZATION
   GE                                                     $16,616        $15,737
   GECS
     Buildings and equipment                                1,733          1,478
     Equipment leased to others                             7,021          6,126
                                                          ----------------------
                                                          $25,370        $23,341
================================================================================
   Amortization of GECS equipment leased to others was $2,185 million, $2,102
million and $1,848 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Noncancelable
future rentals due from customers for equipment on operating leases at year-end
1998 totaled $12,808 million and are due as follows: $3,377 million in 1999;
$2,540 million in 2000; $1,841 million in 2001; $1,318 million in 2002; $897
million in 2003; and $2,835 million thereafter.


 F-34
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 58
- ---------------------

16   INTANGIBLE ASSETS

                                                            --------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                     1998          1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE
Goodwill                                                   $ 9,203       $ 8,046
Other intangibles                                              793           709
                                                            --------------------
                                                             9,996         8,755
                                                            --------------------
GECS
Goodwill                                                    11,469         8,090
Present value of future profits (PVFP)                       1,618         1,824
Other intangibles                                              552           452
                                                            --------------------
                                                            13,639        10,366
                                                            --------------------
                                                           $23,635       $19,121
================================================================================
   GE intangible assets are shown net of accumulated amortization of $2,923
million in 1998 and $2,976 million in 1997. GECS intangible assets are net of
accumulated amortization of $3,396 million in 1998 and $2,615 million in 1997.

   PVFP amortization, which is on an accelerated basis and net of interest, is
projected to range from 15% to 8% of the year-end 1998 unamortized balance for
each of the next five years.

17   ALL OTHER ASSETS

                                                       -------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                  1998            1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE
Investments
   Associated companies (a)                            $  2,336        $  1,692
   Other                                                    474             735
                                                       -------------------------
                                                          2,810           2,427
Prepaid pension asset                                     7,752           6,574
Long-term receivables, including notes                    2,379           2,389
Prepaid broadcasting rights                                 929             595
Other                                                     4,161           2,744
                                                       -------------------------
                                                         18,031          14,729
                                                       -------------------------
GECS
Investments
   Assets acquired for resale                             6,167           4,403
   Associated companies (a)                               7,670           4,695
   Real estate ventures                                   3,131           2,326
   Other                                                  3,473           2,452
                                                       -------------------------
                                                         20,441          13,876
Separate accounts                                         6,563           4,926
Servicing assets                                          1,625           1,713
Deferred insurance acquisition costs                      3,326           2,521
Other                                                     3,584           2,631
                                                       -------------------------
                                                         35,539          25,667
                                                       -------------------------
ELIMINATIONS                                               (662)           (576)
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       $ 52,908        $ 39,820
================================================================================
(a) Includes advances
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   In line with industry practice, sales of commercial jet aircraft engines
often involve long-term customer financing commitments. In making such
commitments, it is GE's general practice to require that it have or be able to
establish a secured position in the aircraft being financed. Under such airline
financing programs, GE had issued loans and guarantees (principally guarantees)
amounting to $1,473 million at year-end 1998 and $1,590 million at year-end
1997; and it had entered into commitments totaling $1,519 million and $1,794
million at year-end 1998 and 1997, respectively, to provide financial assistance
on future aircraft engine sales. Estimated fair values of the aircraft securing
these receivables and associated guarantees exceeded the related account
balances and guaranteed amounts at December 31, 1998. GECS acts as a lender and
lessor to the commercial airline industry. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
balance of such GECS loans, leases and equipment leased to others was $10,170
million and $8,980 million, respectively. In addition, at December 31, 1998,
GECS had issued financial guarantees and funding commitments of $74 million
($123 million at year-end 1997) and had placed multiyear orders for various
Boeing and Airbus aircraft with list prices of approximately $9.4 billion ($6.2
billion at year-end 1997).

   At year-end 1998, the National Broadcasting Company had $9,376 million of
commitments to acquire broadcast material and the rights to broadcast television
programs, including U.S. television rights to future Olympic Games, and
commitments under long-term television station affiliation agreements that
require payments through the year 2009.

   In connection with numerous projects, primarily power generation bids and
contracts, GE had issued various bid and performance bonds and guarantees
totaling $3,740 million at year-end 1998 and $2,895 million at year-end 1997.

   Separate accounts represent investments controlled by policyholders and are
associated with identical amounts reported as insurance liabilities in note 20.

18   GE ALL OTHER CURRENT COSTS AND EXPENSES ACCRUED

At year-end 1998 and 1997, this account included taxes accrued of $3,415 million
and $2,866 million and compensation and benefit accruals of $1,487 million and
$1,321 million, respectively. Also included are amounts for product warranties,
restructuring, estimated costs on shipments billed to customers and a variety of
sundry items.

   An analysis of changes in the restructuring liability follows.

                                        ----------------------------------------
                                        Termination          Exit
(In millions)                              benefits         costs         Total
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1997 provision                              $   778       $   465       $ 1,243
Charges                                        (672)         (395)       (1,067)
Reversed to operations                           --           (28)          (28)
                                        ----------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1998                $   106       $    42       $   148
================================================================================
   Substantially all of the 1997 provision is expected to be utilized by
year-end 1999.


 F-35
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 59
- ---------------------

19   BORROWINGS

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                           1998                   1997
                                  -----------------------  ---------------------
                                                 Average                Average
December 31 (In millions)           Amount      rate (a)    Amount     rate (a)
- ---------------------------------------------------------  ---------------------
GE
Commercial paper (U.S.)           $  2,339          5.29%  $ 1,835         5.88%
Payable to banks,
   principally non-U.S                 465         11.15       348         8.38
Current portion of
   long-term debt                       50          5.08     1,099         5.85
Other                                  612                     347
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                     3,466                   3,629
                                  ----------------------------------------------
GECS
Commercial paper
   U.S                              83,044          5.38    67,355         5.93
   Non-U.S                           3,953          4.80     3,879         4.18
Current portion of
   long-term debt                   14,645          5.66    15,101         6.30
Other                               11,520                   8,939
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                   113,162                  95,274
                                  ----------------------------------------------
ELIMINATIONS                        (1,250)                   (828)
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                  $115,378                 $98,075
================================================================================

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                   Average                 --------------------
December 31 (In millions)         rate (a)    Maturities      1998         1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE
Industrial development/
   pollution control bonds            3.78%    2003-2027   $   327     $    270
Payable to banks,
   principally non-U.S                9.56     2000-2006       230          195
Other (b)                                                      124          264
                                                           ---------------------
                                                               681          729
                                                           ---------------------
GECS
Senior notes                          6.07     2000-2055    58,042       44,993
Subordinated notes (c)                7.88     2006-2035       996          996
                                                           ---------------------
                                                            59,038       45,989
                                                           ---------------------
ELIMINATIONS                                                   (56)        (115)
                                                           ---------------------
                                                           $59,663     $ 46,603
================================================================================
(a)  Based on year-end balances and local currency interest rates, including the
     effects of interest rate and currency swaps, if any, directly associated
     with the original debt issuance.

(b)  A variety of obligations having various interest rates and maturities,
     including certain borrowings by parent operating components and affiliates.

(c)  Guaranteed by GE.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Borrowings of GE and GECS are addressed below from two perspectives --
liquidity and interest rate management. Additional information about borrowings
and associated swaps can be found in note 30.

LIQUIDITY requirements of GE and GECS are principally met through the credit
markets. Maturities of long-term borrowings during the next five years follow.

                             ---------------------------------------------------
(In millions)                   1999       2000       2001       2002       2003
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GE                           $    50    $   137    $   132    $    33    $    48
GECS                          14,645     13,889     10,925      7,059      4,794
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Confirmed credit lines of $4.0 billion had been extended to GE by 23 banks
at year-end 1998. Substantially all of GE's credit lines are available to GECS
and its affiliates in addition to their own credit lines.

     At year-end 1998, GECS and its affiliates held committed lines of credit
aggregating $26.7 billion, including $11.8 billion of revolving credit
agreements pursuant to which it has the right to borrow funds for periods
exceeding one year. Amounts drawn by GECS under these lines at December 31,
1998, were not significant. A total of $1.5 billion of GE Capital credit lines
is available for use by GE. Both GE and GECS compensate certain banks for credit
facilities in the form of fees, which were insignificant in each of the past
three years.

INTEREST RATES ARE MANAGED by GECS in light of the anticipated behavior,
including prepayment behavior, of assets in which debt proceeds are invested. A
variety of instruments, including interest rate and currency swaps and currency
forwards, are employed to achieve management's interest rate objectives.
Effective interest rates are lower under these "synthetic" positions than could
have been achieved by issuing debt directly.

   The following table shows GECS borrowing positions considering the effects of
swaps.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EFFECTIVE BORROWINGS (INCLUDING SWAPS)
                                                         -----------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                    1998           1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Short-term                                               $ 72,143       $ 56,961
                                                         -----------------------
Long-term (including current portion)
   Fixed rate (a)                                        $ 74,226       $ 59,329
   Floating rate                                           25,831         24,973
                                                         -----------------------
Total long-term                                          $100,057       $ 84,302
================================================================================
(a)  Includes the notional amount of long-term interest rate swaps that
     effectively convert the floating-rate nature of short-term borrowings to
     fixed rates of interest.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   At December 31, 1998, swap maturities ranged from 1999 to 2048, and average
interest rates for fixed-rate borrowings (including "synthetic" fixed-rate
borrowings) were 6.03% (6.32% at year-end 1997).



 F-36
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 60
- ---------------------

20   GECS INSURANCE LIABILITIES, RESERVES AND ANNUITY BENEFITS

                                                         -----------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                     1998          1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Investment contracts and universal
   life benefits                                           $29,266       $28,266
Life insurance benefits and other (a)                       16,104        14,356
Unpaid claims and claims adjustment
   expenses (b)                                             19,611        14,654
Unearned premiums                                            5,715         5,068
Separate accounts (see note 17)                              6,563         4,926
                                                         -----------------------
                                                           $77,259       $67,270
================================================================================
(a)  Life insurance benefits are accounted for mainly by a net-level-premium
     method using estimated yields generally ranging from 5% to 9% in both 1998
     and 1997.

(b)  Principally property and casualty reserves; includes amounts for both
     reported and incurred-but-not-reported claims, reduced by anticipated
     salvage and subrogation recoveries. Estimates of liabilities are reviewed
     and updated continually, with changes in estimated losses reflected in
     operations.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     When GECS cedes insurance to third parties, it is not relieved of its
primary obligation to policyholders. Losses on ceded risks give rise to claims
for recovery; allowances are established for such receivables from reinsurers.

   The insurance liability for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses
related to policies that may cover environmental, asbestos and Year 2000-related
exposures is based on known facts and an assessment of applicable law and
coverage litigation. Liabilities are recognized for both known and unasserted
claims (including the cost of related litigation) when sufficient information
has been developed to indicate that a claim has been incurred and a range of
potential losses can be reasonably estimated. Developed case law and adequate
claim history do not exist for certain claims, particularly with respect to Year
2000-related exposures, principally due to significant uncertainties as to both
the level of ultimate losses that will occur and what portion, if any, will be
deemed to be insured amounts.

   A summary of activity affecting unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses
follows.

                                           -------------------------------------
(In millions)                                  1998          1997          1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Balance at January 1 -- gross              $ 14,654      $ 13,184      $ 12,662
Less reinsurance recoverables                (2,246)       (1,822)       (1,853)
                                           -------------------------------------
Balance at January -- net                    12,408        11,362        10,809
Claims and expenses incurred
   Current year                               6,330         4,494         4,087
   Prior years                                 (162)          146           104
Claims and expenses paid
   Current year                              (2,400)       (1,780)       (1,357)
   Prior years                               (3,692)       (2,816)       (2,373)
Claim reserves related to
   acquired companies                         3,476         1,360           309
Other                                           168          (358)         (217)
                                           -------------------------------------
Balance at December 31 -- net                16,128        12,408        11,362
Add reinsurance recoverables                  3,483         2,246         1,822
                                           -------------------------------------
Balance at December 31 -- gross            $ 19,611      $ 14,654      $ 13,184
================================================================================
   Prior-year claims and expenses incurred in the preceding table resulted
principally from settling claims established in earlier accident years for
amounts that differed from expectations.

   Financial guarantees and credit life risk of insurance affiliates are
summarized below.
                                                      --------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                  1998            1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guarantees, principally on municipal
   bonds and structured finance issues                $ 171,020       $ 144,647
Mortgage insurance risk in force                         43,941          46,245
Credit life insurance risk in force                      31,018          26,593
Less reinsurance                                        (37,205)        (33,528)
                                                      --------------------------
                                                      $ 208,774       $ 183,957
================================================================================

21   GE ALL OTHER LIABILITIES

This account includes noncurrent compensation and benefit accruals at year-end
1998 and 1997 of $5,594 million and $5,484 million, respectively. Also included
are amounts for deferred incentive compensation, deferred income, product
warranties and a variety of sundry items.

   GE is involved in numerous remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes
as required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs at each
site are based on management's best estimate of undiscounted future costs,
excluding possible insurance recoveries. When there appears to be a range of
possible costs with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the lower end of
such range. Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and
information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop a
meaningful estimate of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental
remediation exposure. However, even in the unlikely event that remediation costs
amounted to the high end of the range of costs for each site, the resulting
additional liability would not be material to GE's financial position, results
of operations or liquidity.


 F-37
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 61
- ---------------------

22   DEFERRED INCOME TAXES

Aggregate deferred tax amounts are summarized below.

                                                        ------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                  1998             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ASSETS
GE                                                      $ 5,309          $ 4,891
GECS                                                      5,305            4,320
                                                        ------------------------
                                                         10,614            9,211
                                                        ------------------------
LIABILITIES
GE                                                        5,059            4,576
GECS                                                     14,895           13,286
                                                        ------------------------
                                                         19,954           17,862
                                                        ------------------------
NET DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY                              $ 9,340          $ 8,651
================================================================================
   Principal components of the net deferred tax balances for GE and GECS are as
follows:

                                                       -------------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                 1998             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE
Provisions for expenses (a)                            $(3,809)         $(3,367)
Retiree insurance plans                                   (847)            (856)
Prepaid pension asset                                    2,713            2,301
Depreciation                                               935              955
Other-- net                                                758              652
                                                       -------------------------
                                                          (250)            (315)
                                                       -------------------------
GECS
Financing leases                                         8,593            7,909
Operating leases                                         2,419            2,156
Net unrealized gains
   on securities                                         1,369            1,264
Allowance for losses                                    (1,386)          (1,372)
Insurance reserves                                      (1,022)          (1,000)
AMT credit carryforwards                                  (903)            (354)
Other -- net                                               520              363
                                                       -------------------------
                                                         9,590            8,966
                                                       -------------------------
NET DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY                             $ 9,340          $ 8,651
================================================================================
(a)  Represents the tax effects of temporary differences related to expense
     accruals for a wide variety of items, such as employee compensation and
     benefits, interest on tax deficiencies, product warranties and other
     provisions for sundry losses and expenses that are not currently
     deductible.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

23   GECS MINORITY INTEREST IN EQUITY OF CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES

Minority interest in equity of consolidated GECS affiliates includes preferred
stock issued by GE Capital and by an affiliate of GE Capital. The preferred
stock pays cumulative dividends at variable rates. Value of the preferred shares
is summarized below.

                                                         -----------------------
December 31 (In millions)                                  1998             1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
GE Capital                                               $2,300           $2,230
GE Capital affiliate                                        860              660
================================================================================
   Dividend rates on the preferred stock ranged from 3.9% to 5.2% during 1998
and from 3.8% to 5.2% during 1997 and 1996.

24   RESTRICTED NET ASSETS OF GECS AFFILIATES

Certain GECS consolidated affiliates are restricted from remitting funds to GECS
in the form of dividends or loans by a variety of regulations, the purpose of
which is to protect affected insurance policyholders, depositors or investors.
At year-end 1998, net assets of regulated GECS affiliates amounted to $25.1
billion, of which $21.9 billion was restricted.

   At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the aggregate statutory capital and surplus of
the insurance businesses totaled $14.4 billion and $12.4 billion, respectively.
Accounting practices prescribed by statutory authorities are used in preparing
statutory statements.

25   SHARE OWNERS' EQUITY

                                             -----------------------------------
(In millions)                                    1998         1997         1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------=

COMMON STOCK ISSUED                          $    594     $    594     $    594
                                             ===================================
ACCUMULATED NONOWNER
   CHANGES OTHER THAN EARNINGS
Balance at January 1                         $  1,340     $    615     $  1,061
Unrealized gains (losses) on
   investment securities -- net
   of deferred taxes of $430,
   $860 and ($204)                                795        1,467         (329)
Currency translation
   adjustments -- net of deferred
   taxes of ($13), ($58) and ($9)                  60         (742)        (117)
Reclassification adjustments--
   net of deferred taxes of ($291)               (531)          --           --
                                             -----------------------------------
Balance at December 31                       $  1,664     $  1,340     $    615
                                             ===================================
OTHER CAPITAL
Balance at January 1                         $  4,434     $  2,554     $  1,602
Gains on treasury stock
   dispositions (a)                             2,374        1,880          952
                                             -----------------------------------
Balance at December 31                       $  6,808     $  4,434     $  2,554
                                             ===================================
RETAINED EARNINGS
Balance at January 1                         $ 43,338     $ 38,670     $ 34,528
Net earnings                                    9,296        8,203        7,280
Dividends (a)                                  (4,081)      (3,535)      (3,138)
                                             -----------------------------------
Balance at December 31                       $ 48,553     $ 43,338     $ 38,670
                                             ===================================
COMMON STOCK HELD IN TREASURY

Balance at January 1                         $ 15,268     $ 11,308     $  8,176
Purchases (a)                                   6,475        6,392        4,842
Dispositions (a)                               (3,004)      (2,432)      (1,710)
                                             -----------------------------------
Balance at December 31                       $ 18,739     $ 15,268     $ 11,308
================================================================================
(a)  Total dividends and other transactions with share owners reduced equity by
     $5,178 million, $5,615 million and $5,318 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
     respectively.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     The GE Board of Directors has authorized repurchase of $17 billion of
common stock under the share repurchase program. This buyback will continue
through the year 2000 at an annual rate of about $2 billion. Funds used for the
share repurchase are expected to be generated largely from operating cash flow.


 F-38
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 62
- ---------------------

Through year-end 1998, a total of 287 million shares having an aggregate cost of
$13.6 billion had been repurchased under this program and placed into treasury.

   Common shares issued and outstanding are summarized in the following table.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHARES OF GE COMMON STOCK
                                      ------------------------------------------
December 31 (In thousands)                 1998            1997            1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Issued                                3,714,068       3,714,026       3,714,026
In treasury                            (442,772)       (449,434)       (424,942)
                                      ------------------------------------------
Outstanding                           3,271,296       3,264,592       3,289,084
================================================================================
   GE has 50 million authorized shares of preferred stock ($1.00 par value), but
no such shares have been issued.

   The effects of translating to U.S. dollars the financial statements of
non-U.S. affiliates whose functional currency is the local currency are included
in share owners' equity. Asset and liability accounts are translated at year-end
exchange rates, while revenues and expenses are translated at average rates for
the period.

26   OTHER STOCK-RELATED INFORMATION

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     Average per share
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             Shares
                                            subject        Exercise       Market
(Shares in thousands)                     to option           price        price
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1995                144,874          $21.60       $36.00
   Options granted                           19,034           42.39        42.39
   Replacement options                        8,622           26.34        26.34
   Options exercised                        (18,278)          17.70        43.25
   Options terminated                        (4,707)          26.18           --
                                            ------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1996                149,545           24.86        49.44
   Options granted (a)                       13,795           68.07        68.07
   Replacement options                           30           24.16        24.16
   Options exercised                        (21,746)          18.47        61.22
   Options terminated                        (2,721)          31.10           --
                                            ------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1997                138,903           30.03        73.38
   Options granted                            7,707           79.86        79.86
   Options exercised                        (23,955)          20.76        84.45
   Options terminated                        (2,727)          44.46           --
                                            ------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1998                119,928           34.76       102.00
================================================================================
(a)  Without adjusting for the effect of the 2-for-1 stock split in April 1997,
     the number of options granted during 1997 would have been 13,476.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Stock option plans, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock and
restricted stock units are described in GE's current Proxy Statement. With
certain restrictions, requirements for stock option shares can be met from
either unissued or treasury shares.

   The replacement options replaced canceled SARs and have identical terms
thereto. At year-end 1998, there were 1.4 million SARs outstanding at an average
exercise price of $22.14. There were 9.2 million restricted stock shares and
restricted stock units outstanding at year-end 1998.

   There were 121.0 million and 92.8 million additional shares available for
grants of options, SARs, restricted stock and restricted stock units at December
31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Under the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 0.95%
of the Company's issued common stock (including treasury shares) as of the first
day of each calendar year during which the Plan is in effect becomes available
for granting awards in such year. Any unused portion, in addition to shares
allocated to awards that are canceled or forfeited, is available for later
years.

   Outstanding options and SARs expire on various dates through December 18,
2008. Restricted stock grants vest on various dates up to normal retirement of
grantees.

   The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 1998.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
STOCK OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
(Shares in thousands)
                                      Outstanding               Exercisable
                            -----------------------------   --------------------
                                                  Average                Average
Exercise                               Average   exercise               exercise
price range                  Shares   life (a)      price   Shares         price
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$12 1/8 - 21 9/16            20,690       2.7   $   17.80   20,690     $   17.80
$21 5/8 - 31 15/16           61,600       5.5       25.72   47,372         25.16
$36 3/16 - 51 1/2            17,565       7.6       42.65    4,436         41.19
$51 3/4 - 73                 12,475       8.8       68.88       75         60.15
$77 1/2 - 96 7/8              7,598       9.7       79.88       22         78.30
                            ----------------------------------------------------
Total                       119,928       5.9       34.76   72,595         24.09
================================================================================
At year-end 1997, options with an average exercise price of $21.11 were
exercisable on 72 million shares; at year-end 1996, options with an average
exercise price of $19.58 were exercisable on 81 million shares.

(a) Average contractual life remaining in years.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Stock options expire 10 years from the date they are granted; options vest
over service periods that range from one to five years.

    Disclosures required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 123, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION, are as follows:

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPTION VALUE INFORMATION (a)
                                             -----------------------------------
(In dollars)                                   1998          1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair value per option (b)                    $18.98        $17.81         $9.34
Valuation assumptions
   Expected option term (years)                 6.2           6.3           6.2
   Expected volatility                         21.7%         20.0%         20.1%
   Expected dividend yield                      1.8%          1.5%          2.3%
   Risk-free interest rate                      4.9%          6.1%          6.6%
================================================================================
(a) Weighted averages of option grants during each period.

(b) Estimated using Black-Scholes option pricing model.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PRO FORMA EFFECTS (a)

December 31 (In millions;
per-share amounts in dollars)                -----------------------------------
                                                1998          1997          1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings                                  $9,196        $8,129        $7,235
Earnings per share -- diluted                   2.77          2.43          2.15
                   -- basic                     2.81          2.48          2.19
================================================================================
(a) Valuations only of grants made after January 1, 1995; thus, the pro forma
    effect increased over the periods presented.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 F-39
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 63
- ---------------------

27  SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOWS INFORMATION

Changes in operating assets and liabilities are net of acquisitions and
dispositions of principal businesses.

   "Payments for principal businesses purchased" in the Statement of Cash Flows
is net of cash acquired and includes debt assumed and immediately repaid in
acquisitions.

    "All other operating activities" in the Statement of Cash Flows consists
primarily of adjustments to current and noncurrent accruals and deferrals of
costs and expenses, increases and decreases in progress collections, adjustments
for gains and losses on assets, increases and decreases in assets held for sale,
and adjustments to assets.

   Noncash transactions include the 1998 acquisition of Marquette Medical
Systems for 9.4 million shares of GE common stock valued at $829 million and the
1997 exchange transaction described in note 2. Other noncash transactions did
not have a significant effect on the investing or financing activities of GE or
GECS.

   Certain supplemental information related to GE and GECS cash flows is shown
below.




 F-40
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 64
- ---------------------

28  OPERATING SEGMENTS





   At year=end 1998, GE adopted SFAS No. 131, DISCLOSURES ABOUT SEGMENTS OF AN
ENTERPRISE AND RELATED INFORMATION. Prior-period amounts have been restated in
accordance with the requirements of the new standard.

BASIS FOR PRESENTATION. The Company's operating businesses are organized based
on the nature of products and services provided. Certain GE businesses do not
meet the definition of a reportable operating segment and have been aggregated.
The Industrial Products and Systems segment consists of Industrial Systems,
Lighting, Transportation Systems and GE Supply. The Technical Products and
Services segment consists of Medical Systems and Information Services.

   Segment accounting policies are the same as policies described in note 1.


 F-41
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 65
- ---------------------

Details of segment profit by operating segment can be found on page 36 of this
report. A description of operating segments for General Electric Company and
consolidated affiliates follows.

AIRCRAFT ENGINES. Jet engines and replacement parts and repair and maintenance
services for all categories of commercial aircraft (short/medium, intermediate
and long-range); for a wide variety of military aircraft, including fighters,
bombers, tankers and helicopters; and for executive and commuter aircraft. Sold
worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies. Also
includes aircraft engine derivatives, reported both in this segment and in Power
Systems, used as marine propulsion and industrial power sources.

APPLIANCES. Major appliances and related services for products such as
refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, dishwashers, clothes washers
and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners and residential water system
products. Sold in North America and in global markets under various GE and
private-label brands. Distributed to retail outlets, mainly for the replacement
market, and to building contractors and distributors for new installations.

INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS AND SYSTEMS. Lighting products (including a wide variety of
lamps, lighting fixtures, wiring devices and quartz products); electrical
distribution and control equipment (including power delivery and control
products such as transformers, meters, relays, capacitors and arresters);
transportation systems products (including diesel-electric locomotives, transit
propulsion equipment and motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles); electric
motors and related products; a broad range of electrical and electronic
industrial automation products (including drive systems); installation,
engineering and repair services, which includes management and technical
expertise for large projects such as process control systems; and GE Supply, a
network of electrical supply houses. Markets are extremely diverse. Products are
sold to commercial and industrial end users, including utilities, to original
equipment manufacturers, to electrical distributors, to retail outlets, to
railways and to transit authorities. Increasingly, products are developed for
and sold in global markets.

NBC. Principal businesses are the furnishing of U.S. network television services
to more than 200 affiliated stations, production of television programs,
operation of 13 VHF and UHF television broadcasting stations, operation of six
cable/satellite networks around the world, and investment and programming
activities in the Internet, multimedia and cable television.


PLASTICS. High-performance engineered plastics used in applications such as
automobiles and housings for computers and other business equipment; ABS resins;
silicones; superabrasive industrial diamonds; and laminates. Sold worldwide to a
diverse customer base consisting mainly of manufacturers.

POWER SYSTEMS. Power plant products and services, including design,
installation, operation and maintenance services. Markets and competition are
global. Gas turbines are sold separately and as part of packaged power plants
for electric utilities, independent power producers and for industrial
cogeneration and mechanical drive applications. Steam turbine-generators are
sold to electric utilities and, for cogeneration, to industrial and other power
customers. Also includes nuclear reactors and fuel and support services for GE's
new and installed boiling water reactors and aircraft engine derivatives, also
reported in the Aircraft Engines segment, used as industrial power sources.

TECHNICAL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. Medical imaging systems such as magnetic
resonance (MR) and computed tomography (CT) scanners, x-ray, nuclear imaging and
ultrasound, as well as diagnostic cardiology and patient monitoring devices;
related services, including equipment monitoring and repair, computerized data
management and customer productivity services. Products and services are sold
worldwide to hospitals and medical facilities. Also includes a full range of
computer-based information and data interchange services for both internal and
external use to commercial and industrial customers.

GECS. The operating activities of the GECS segment follow.

   CONSUMER SERVICES -- private-label and bank credit card loans, personal
loans, time sales and revolving credit and inventory financing for retail
merchants, auto leasing and inventory financing, mortgage servicing, and
consumer savings and insurance services.

   EQUIPMENT MANAGEMENT -- leases, loans, sales and asset management services
for portfolios of commercial and transportation equipment, including aircraft,
trailers, auto fleets, modular space units, railroad rolling stock, data
processing equipment, containers used on ocean-going vessels, and satellites.

   MID-MARKET FINANCING -- loans, financing and operating leases and other
services for middle-market customers, including manufacturers, distributors and
end users, for a variety of equipment that includes vehicles, corporate
aircraft, data processing equipment, medical and diagnostic equipment, and
equipment used in construction, manufacturing, office applications, electronics
and telecommunications activities.

   SPECIALIZED FINANCING -- loans and financing leases for major capital assets,
including industrial facilities and equipment, and energy-related facilities;
commercial and residential real estate loans and investments; and loans to and
investments in public and private entities in diverse industries.

   SPECIALTY INSURANCE -- U.S. and international multiple-line property and
casualty reinsurance; certain directly written specialty insurance and life
reinsurance; financial guaranty insurance, principally on municipal bonds and
structured finance issues; private mortgage insurance; and creditor insurance
covering international customer loan repayments.

   Very few of the products financed by GECS are manufactured by GE.


 F-42
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 66
- ---------------------

29  GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONSOLIDATED)

 The table below presents data by geographic region. Operating profit data by
geographic segment have been restated on a basis consistent with operating
segment information presented on page 36.

   Revenues and operating profit shown below are classified according to their
country of origin (including exports from such areas). Revenues and operating
profit classified under the caption "United States" include royalty and
licensing income from non-U.S. sources.




30   ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

This note contains estimated fair values of certain financial instruments to
which GE and GECS are parties. Apart from borrowings by GE and GECS and certain
marketable securities, relatively few of these instruments are actively traded.
Thus, fair values must often be determined by using one or more models that
indicate value based on estimates of quantifiable characteristics as of a
particular date. Because this undertaking is, by its nature, difficult and
highly judgmental, for a limited number of instruments, alternative valuation
techniques may have produced disclosed values different from those that could
have been realized at December 31, 1998 or 1997. Assets and liabilities that, as
a matter of accounting policy, are reflected in the accompanying financial
statements at fair value are not included in the following disclosures; such
items include cash and equivalents, investment securities and separate accounts.

   A description of how values are estimated follows.

BORROWINGS. Based on quoted market prices or market comparables. Fair values of
interest rate and currency swaps on borrowings are based on quoted market prices
and include the effects of counterparty creditworthiness.

TIME SALES AND LOANS. Based on quoted market prices, recent transactions and/or
discounted future cash flows, using rates at which similar loans would have been
made to similar borrowers.

INVESTMENT CONTRACT BENEFITS. Based on expected future cash flows, discounted at
currently offered discount rates for immediate annuity contracts
or cash surrender values for single premium deferred annuities.

FINANCIAL GUARANTEES AND CREDIT LIFE. Based on future cash flows, considering
expected renewal premiums, claims, refunds and servicing costs, discounted at a
market rate.

ALL OTHER INSTRUMENTS. Based on comparable transactions, market comparables,
discounted future cash flows, quoted market prices, and/or estimates of the cost
to terminate or otherwise settle obligations to counterparties.


 F-43
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 67
- ---------------------



   Additional information about certain financial instruments in the table above
follows.

CURRENCY FORWARDS AND OPTIONS are employed by GE and GECS to manage exposures to
changes in currency exchange rates associated with commercial purchase and sale
transactions and by GECS to optimize borrowing costs as discussed in note 19.
These financial instruments generally are used to fix the local currency cost of
purchased goods or services or selling prices denominated in currencies other
than the functional currency. Currency exposures that result from net
investments in affiliates are managed principally by funding assets denominated
in local currency with debt denominated in those same currencies. In certain
circumstances, net investment exposures are managed using currency forwards and
currency swaps.


 F-44
ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 68
- ---------------------

OPTIONS AND INSTRUMENTS CONTAINING OPTION FEATURES that behave based on limits
("caps," "floors" or "collars") on interest rate movement are used primarily to
hedge prepayment risk in certain GECS business activities, such as mortgage
servicing and annuities.

SWAPS OF INTEREST RATES AND CURRENCIES are used by GE and GECS to optimize
borrowing costs for a particular funding strategy (see note 19). A cancelable
interest rate swap was used by GE to hedge an investment position. Interest rate
and currency swaps, along with purchased options and futures, are used by GECS
to establish specific hedges of mortgage-related assets and to manage net
investment exposures. Credit risk of these positions is evaluated by management
under the credit criteria discussed below. As part of its ongoing customer
activities, GECS also enters into swaps that are integrated into investments in
or loans to particular customers and do not involve assumption of third-party
credit risk. Such integrated swaps are evaluated and monitored like their
associated investments or loans and are not therefore subject to the same credit
criteria that would apply to a stand-alone position.

COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK -- risk that counterparties will be financially unable
to make payments according to the terms of the agreements -- is the principal
risk associated with swaps, purchased options and forwards. Gross market value
of probable future receipts is one way to measure this risk, but is meaningful
only in the context of net credit exposure to individual counterparties. At
December 31, 1998 and 1997, this gross market risk amounted to $2.3 billion and
$2.0 billion, respectively. Aggregate fair values that represent associated
probable future obligations, normally associated with a right of offset against
probable future receipts, amounted to $3.6 billion and $2.9 billion at December
31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

   Except as noted above for positions that are integrated into financings, all
swaps, purchased options and forwards are carried out within the following
credit policy constraints.

o    Once a counterparty exceeds credit exposure limits (see table below), no
     additional transactions are permitted until the exposure with that
     counterparty is reduced to an amount that is within the established limit.
     Open contracts remain in force.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
COUNTERPARTY CREDIT CRITERIA
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                          Credit rating
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                   Moody's    Standard & Poor's
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Term of transaction
   Between one and five years                        Aa3            AA-
   Greater than five years                           Aaa            AAA
Credit exposure limits
   Up to $50 million                                 Aa3            AA-
   Up to $75 million                                 Aaa            AAA
================================================================================
o   All swaps are executed under master swap agreements containing mutual credit
    downgrade provisions that provide the ability to require assignment or
    termination in the event either party is downgraded below A3 or A-.

More credit latitude is permitted for transactions having original maturities
shorter than one year because of their lower risk.

31  QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)



   For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services less costs of
goods and services sold. For GECS, operating profit is "Earnings before income
taxes."

   Fourth-quarter gross profit from sales in 1997 was reduced by restructuring
and other special charges. Such charges, including amounts shown in "Other costs
and expenses," were $2,322 million before tax. Also in the fourth quarter of
1997, GE completed an exchange transaction with Lockheed Martin as described in
note 2.

    Earnings-per-share amounts for each quarter are required to be computed
independently. As a result, with the exception of 1998 diluted earnings per
share, their sum does not equal the total year earnings-per-share amounts for
1998 and 1997.





